ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e2996	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Values Members of the Austrian Federal Government! I'll open the 148. Meeting of the National Council. Deputies Bacher, Köchl, Mag. Worm, El Habbassi, Dr. Däderle, Walter Rauch, Schrangl, Themessl, Zanger and Julian Schmid. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3027	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter is the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Brandstetter and the Federal Minister for the Interior Mag. Sobotka is represented by the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Schelling. [[09:07:06]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3063	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3142	I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. ORF III will be handed over live, and that part of the meeting, which goes beyond 7.45 p.m., will be sent in time. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3161	In order to be able to negotiate item 12 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the written committee report. This is the report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Regional Court of Internal City of Vienna for approval of the administrative persecution of Members to the National Council of Club Ms. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, 1297 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to the removal from the time-limit for this committee report, to give a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3188	It is proposed that the debate on points 3 and 4 and 6 and 7 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3212	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 128 minutes, FPÖ 119 minutes, green 100 minutes, NEOS and STRONACH per 52 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club, each 26 minutes; in addition, their speaking time shall be limited to 5 minutes per debate. As regards the Rules of Procedure on Agenda item 1, there is agreement between members of the Presidential Conference on the following procedure: Speaker/redner round 1 and 2: General debate; from speaker/redner round 3 to focus topics: Labour and social affairs, home affairs, national defence, the environment, the economy, external affairs, education and, subsequently, further words are possible. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:10:13]] 1. Point First reading: Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2017 (Federal Finance Act 2017 – BFG 2017) together with investments (1260 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3258	This leads us to the 1st place. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Klubobmann Mag is the first to speak. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3285	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget debate here in the National Council is a traditional exercise both in the good and in the bad. It contains the element that the budget speech will be given, and the next day the House's representatives will have the opportunity to carry out the assessment of this budget speech. It is often a ritual, a debate that is not very economic policy-making, because a real economic policy debate would mean focusing on the problems of the present and trying to answer the opportunities of the future. Sometimes, even in the media reporting, the error is made that a one-dimensional view is taken and that is reduced to a revenue statement. The figures of this budget, which is also important, go in the right direction: The deficit is falling to 1.2 percent, the structural zero deficit is at its reach and reached for 2017, the debt will be just over 80 percent and the subsequent years will fall to 75 percent. That's an important goal. On behalf of my group, I would like to stress one particular point: The goal of economy, of economical handling of tax schilling and tax euro is a goal which we not only share, but also pursue on a massive scale. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] [[Abg. Chilling!]] Of course, a debate on economic policy must continue, because it is also important to assess the effects and effects. It's not just about saying: If money is spent, then it is bad; if money is taken less, then it is good or bad!, but it is about assessing the economic effects behind it, it is about mastering the economic challenges. For us Social Democrats, unemployment is the biggest challenge – to address this very clearly. The fight against unemployment is for us one of the key economic policy issues, including budgetary policy and government policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] There are very important measures, such as the training requirement up to 18 years old, and the recovery of the economy over multiple activities such as the start-up package, but also all the other measures we are setting in this area, for example, that €1.6 billion is budgeted for active labour market policies in 2017 so that the trend change on the labour market can be started. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Get the Faymann as an expert!]] It is also right for us to spend hundreds of millions more euros than in the previous year, so that long-term unemployed people, older than 50 years, have an opportunity on the labour market. Likewise, at the other end of the population pyramid, the boys, the 16-, 17-, 18-year-olds, get their chance with the training obligation. But one thing is clear to us as well: New jobs will only be created if the economy can grow; and the economy will only grow if there is investment. Therefore, the following three economic factors are important for investment: First of all, demand for consumption. – The tax reform, which, of course, is also reflected in this budget, but is already coming out of the last budget, with the €5 billion of a very decisive economic contribution. The economic research institute has recently confirmed to us that the tax reform will lead to an increase in consumption and domestic demand. Secondly, Investments in enterprises. – Fortunately, these slowly attract again; as I have already mentioned, these are the start-up package – these are also meaningful expenditures of almost €200 million – the innovation funding, the research funding. All these points as well as investment in public infrastructure are essential. With regard to public investment, because in this respect, too, the views of the spoken Swabian housewife or the accountant-oriented financial politician are false: These are, of course, high expenditure, but they are also appropriate expenditure, especially if we are promoting broadband development, rail development, infrastructure development, the expansion of our energy, transport and supply infrastructure. Third factor: investment in people, investment in education, education from kindergarten to school, apprenticeship training to universities. Investments in all these areas are investment in human capital, in people. That is the right expenditure, and it is good that this budget provides for it again more than in the past few years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this way I come to this sometimes strange economic policy discussion, in which we say: You've got to spore! To say it very clearly: Whoever in the areas I just mentioned saves, doesn't save, he's cut short. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or to say it in words of someone else: Whoever wants to cut down there is the ideology bearer of social reduction. – We do not want to, because we are fighting against unemployment and public investment. [[Abg. Kickl:... Class fight!]] [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Korun.]] In the newspapers today, I read that one of the “main cost drivers in the budget (...) is now the pensions. ” That was very literary yesterday, it was quoted Shakespeare: ‘Words do not pay any debt’. – Yes, words do not do much, I have to cast out colleagues Shakespeare here. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Federal Minister Schelling.]] [[Abg. Strache: “College Shakespeare” is good!]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: William Schieder!]] However, I will bring you to the debate on pensions another quote from Shakespeare, addressed to those colleagues who find that “the main cost driver in the budget (...) are now the pensions”. Shakespeare's Otello says: ‘Do not claim to be evidence’. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I would therefore like to bring some facts about pensions. [[Abg. Street: The “College Shakespeare ” can do what!]] It is true that the budget contribution for pensions in 2017 is reduced by € 870 million compared to the financial framework. Why? – Because the measures to increase the actual retirement age are taking place because the reform measures carried out in recent years and months – including our Social Minister – have an impact and because we have high employment rates and, of course, revenue in the pension system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That's why my appeal is: Let us rather speak the facts, let us end with this fear debate on pensions, and strengthen the purchasing power by making money available to pensioners today, which then makes them flow very quickly into the economy! One thing is also interesting: I heard yesterday about economic policy, the New Deal should not be a cow trade. Now I don't know where this quote is, whether it's from "The Bauer as a Millionaire" or more from "A Jux he wants to make himself", but it's an interesting quote, and I can tell you in all seriousness: [[Federal Minister Schelling:... Shakespeare!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart]] [[Call the ÖVP:Shakespeare!]] I think I'll be They can very often remember that a cow trade is, of course, not a good moment for economic policy. That is what we call boomerang quotat, because it is still very often to be remembered that it is right that in politics one should not make a cow trade, but a fact-oriented, growth-oriented and focussed on social security, with which people should focus, budget, financial and general policies.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3489	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3536	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, Finance Minister Hans-Jörg Schelling presented his second budget here, and it was already noticeable in the house that the right man in the right place in the right position leads our finances primarily responsible. What do I mean by that? – Hans-Jörg Schelling is not only one who knows politics, he is also a man who comes from the right private sector and who has a very decisive advantage. [[general hustle and bustle]] [[Abg. Strache: Is there also a wrong private sector?]] – Yes, there is also the wrong private sector, and that’s the one that can get into the tax pot if it doesn’t quite fit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is the semi-private economy, my colleague. [[Abg. Krainer: Do you mean agriculture? The agriculture, isn't it? That can only be agriculture!]] What I mean by that is that Mr Schelling has clearly told us that we can only achieve our objectives if we achieve economic growth of 1.6%. Therefore, it is the most important and urgent to do everything, to strengthen the economic location, because we have only 0.5 percent less economic growth, we immediately have 1 billion € more deficit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] That is to say, the crucial point is to do everything possible to ensure that the economic climate is right, and any talk of new taxes, of new bureaucracies, harms this effort. This is poison! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: You mean the registers!]] That is why I tell you – and I am very glad about this – that a first point that has already burdened our location could be concluded by Minister of Finance Schelling, and that is the chapter of the Heta chapter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] The HETA is once and for all from the table. [[Abg. Lugar: That's what everyone says...!]] I am pleased to be able to say this at the beginning of this debate today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is where the trust account of the Republic of Austria has been paid. After the tax reform, Minister Schelling has found the HETA solution and is now presenting a budget that he is on his way – what I told him yesterday – to become the Austro-Schäuble. [[Abg. Lugar: What is this solution if you...?]] With this budget course he can make it. In Germany, Schäuble was the first Minister of Finance after 1969, who has been able to do so for several years without re-indebtedness and to submit a balanced budget. [[Abg. Krainer: Wrong! That was the acorn!]] This black zero is the goal of Minister of Finance Schelling, and if we are disciplined, we will do so by 2020, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: We'll do this!]] The Green Budgetary spokesperson yesterday – and I see it as a compliment, but I do not see the Budgetary Spokesman today, but I suppose he will come. [[Abg. Rossmann: (from the first series of seats) Good morning, colleague!]] - He's sitting right in the front. Yes, if the good is so close, don't go far. You're right. And the good thing was yesterday, when Rossmann meant that the Swabian housewife had spoken to Schnauzbart. – I see that as a compliment, but a compliment alone for the Swabian housewife is too little. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] What the Minister of Finance needs is our support when it comes to discipline in budgetary matters when it comes to supporting him when new desires come, such as on the day on which we are doing the first reading of the budget, demands in three-digit millions, which differ from what was presented yesterday. What we need is both: on the one hand, budget consolidation, holding on to this course, on the other hand, to do everything to create economic growth. Without economic growth, we cannot meet the challenges – and they are large – we are not prepared for the future of our country! We have not yet finally dealt with the consequences of the financial crisis. The wave of refugees, which has swung across our country last year, the demographic development we all know, the increased security needs are reflected in the budget, both in the interior and in the defence resort. The challenges are that our agriculture can continue to operate, climate change – everything needs to be covered, and that is only if we remain economically strong! The ÖVP with Finance Minister Schelling will do everything we can to keep us economically strong! That is why we must also try to limit some kind of issue. What Finance Minister Schelling said yesterday is that we have individual budget items that do not need three-digit million amounts by 2020, but that are billions. Ladies and gentlemen! Finance Minister Schelling has referred to pensions, has addressed the commitments we have made to the ÖBB, and there are other areas in which we have for the first time exceeded the billion limit – I know this at the latest, since the competent Social City Councillor in the Federal Capital of Vienna has spoken about it – and that is the minimum guarantee. If we do not introduce reforms in time, then at the end of the day we will have to make cuts that actually hurt very much. We are still in a situation where we can make acceptable cuts. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, we must be ready to implement reforms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Schieder! As regards pensions, we are not concerned with intervening in existing, not at all, but it cannot be a good condition if the Court of Auditors tells us that from 2002 to 2013 the average retirement age of the ÖBB was 52,49 years. This is not a good condition if you are so far away from the statutory retirement age! - No, my colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] This has continued in 2012/2013. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Is now 2013 or is today 2016?]] – From 2016 I have not yet got the figures from the ÖBB, but I have them from 2012/2013, since the age of arrival was less than 53 years. I have the 2014 figures, where the average age of entry was less than 54 years, in order to say that directly. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Please, arrive in the present!]] We are not about shortening existing pensions, not at all, that's a schmair when it's claimed. [[Abg. Schwentner: But future pensions will shorten you!]] We are about to come to a fair pension system in Austria – with an almost the same age of entry for all and without special rights for individual groups! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also applies to the Federal Capital of Vienna. At the time, under Minister of Finance Molterer, the mayor and head of state of Vienna signed to implement the pension reform financially equivalent. To date, this has not been done, and Molterer has not been a minister of finance for a long time. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Oh yes!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That was the only right thing of the Molter.]] What I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, is: We need to look at the challenges and we must not flee to say: Everything's paletteti! That is why I say to you: Yes, the black zero, our target in 2020, can be reached! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - I'd rather have a black zero than red numbers, I'd like to tell you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's better for me at the budget than red numbers. This black zero is the trademark of Minister of Finance Schelling. [[Cheerfulness at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] We support him, the entire federal government should support him, and it would be no harm if the opposition parties could be involved in one issue or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3832	Mr Klubobmann is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3864	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! We have already heard quite a few of the previous speakers. The ‘College Shakespeare’ was quoted as: We don’t pay any debts or “words don’t pay” – so he quoted it. That is true, and that is something that we unfortunately have to observe again and again in the budget speeches of God for years. There are wonderful words – for example, the “black zero” quoted Mr. Lopatka. I don't know what exactly he meant by "the black zero," but we've heard that for years now that there should be this zero deficit. In reality, then, the words spoken and the targets and the reality we have experienced in recent years are far apart. Minister of Finance Schelling gave his second budget speech yesterday. How many more will follow will be seen. I hope that after the next elections a change in this House will finally be possible, because it is urgently necessary. Mr. Finance Minister, you said yesterday that it was possible to achieve a structured zero deficit for the third time and re-indebtedness to 2016 by a third... [[Abg. Krainer: A structural!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Not structured! Structural! But – smallness!]] – I said a structural zero deficit! Did you listen to me? – A structural zero deficit has been achieved. I said that and nothing else. [[Abg. Rossmann: I understood “structured”!]] You might want to sharpen your ears! If you say that the re-indebtedness towards 2016 has been reduced by a third, then the beautiful words are, but you also have to see if that really corresponds to the facts. They are also talking about the level of the deficit, and there are different figures. They are talking about the future deficit being € 4.3 billion or 1.2 percent of GDP. This is, however, only the deficit according to the financing budget. The deficit according to the earnings budget is €9 billion, and this has already given rise to a completely different situation. Even more dubious are the figures for the structural deficit, in which it is alleged that one-off payments are not included, including the costs for asylum seekers, which I will be able to discuss separately later. The fact is, the measures which are not included in the structural deficit must, of course, be financed, and this usually leads to a further rise in public debt. And unfortunately we also have a further rise in government debt. This is a reality, although we have been listening to another goal in the budget speeches for years. Reality is another. We are lucky that we are currently paying little interest, but that will change again. And then God graces us when this interest burden will eventually rise again and we will have to cover it up again in order to hopefully be able to reduce the debt sometime! As will then be the case with increased interest rates in view of the current budget and the targets, this is said to be the case. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Even if the re-indebtedness in 2017 should actually be even lower than in 2016, we have, as said, a realistic re-indebtedness, and that is the drama. When you get involved Your budget looks a little closer, then it is clear that there is a very mysterious point in it, namely the financial compensation. We have been hearing for some time now that a new financial compensation should enter into force with January 2017, but until now there are no specific templates to this effect. According to media reports, there are negotiations that are taking place, but there is no results to date. There is also no result that would be recognizable in the draft budget. A draft law is necessary for a new financial compensation law – it is missing. The question will be: Do you calculate that this won't be a big throw, or will you then add it to the budget, so to speak, and change the budget again? – This is an open window that is still present. Another issue I miss is, of course, the fight against cold progression. This too has been the subject for years. Again and again you have announced that you will tackle this as one of your main tasks and fight the cold progression. The removal of cold progression has, of course, been announced once again in the budget speech, as has been the case in recent years, but we have nothing to do with announcements! There we are again at the “words” that have been addressed today, which will, of course, not reduce debts and will not be able to bring about any change if they are not implemented in action. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, of course, it is important to finally take concrete measures against the cold progression. That's what we've been demanding for years. Of course, there are measures such as, in particular, the reduction of the tax rate or the regular adjustment of tax rates to inflation and, at least, the recovery of additional tariff levels, which could make it possible to achieve rapid success, but I am sorry that this is not the case until now. That is why the increase in wages for citizens is not what would actually be necessary. We are talking about boosting the economic cycle. Yes, of course, the economic location is more attractive as such, because it is particularly unattractive today in Austria. We have a maximum tax burden, we have at 45.2 percent as high a tax rate as never before. [[Abg. Rossmann: It's not true!]] This means, of course, that there is a need for significant tax reductions. We need to make the location more attractive. In the area of bureaucracy, for example, we must not put in place such measures as they were your main focus last year, a key element in the registration of registers, which in reality creates new unemployment, but must make Austria's economic location more attractive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must actively combat unemployment, and I need – and I am still missing this – of course an economic, labour market and industrial offensive package in 2017 and no Agenda 2025, because we have the problem now and today. We need to make the site more attractive as soon as possible, so that we can invest again in Austria, so that businesses can also settle with us again and don't migrate, as is the case today. It has also been discussed today about investment. Yes, we still have an investment problem. We also have a credit terminal in Austria, so you have to deal with it honestly. If, as a rule, the entrepreneurs receive loans only if they are able to secure them at 100 percent, then, of course, this ultimately leads to less and less investment, and since there is a certain credit clamp due to the Basel II and Basel III requirements, we have to consider how we can counter them. It was also discussed the one-time payment for pensioners. First of all, I feel it is positive that you think about the pensioners and think about how to get under the arms of the pensioners, who often really get under the wheels, only: A single payment of 100 € is certainly not what the pensioners need! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They really need a sustainable pension price index adjustment, they need a sustainable increase. We say that you really have to ensure a minimum pension of €1200 to €1250, and you need a current pensionist price index adjustment to which pensioners can also rely. These are not bitters, these are people who have worked hard for decades and done a lot that have been paid into the system and today really have to live at the poverty line. This is simply unfair, and we have all the responsibility to counter it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us also talk about asylum costs! 2 billion € will be spent next year. There is then much, much money needed, as we see; probably – you can say that from a sad experience – it will be more than you predict. And, of course, we also need to take into account the impact of immigration flows on the labour market and thus on the budget accordingly. We say very clearly that we must finally stop, because this is a migration policy. When it comes to the admission of asylum seekers, immigration, access to the social benefits for foreigners, it is always necessary to have in mind that those who have not worked for an hour can never afford to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the sense of justice, you have to think something about it at last, because it cannot be that others who have worked and paid for decades must end up with 57, 60 euros of emergency per month, because the income of the partner is taken into account. These are all developments that are not fair. Austria is neither the labour market service nor the Social Office for Migrants from all over the world. The Austrians' financial, social, security and social burden limits have long been exceeded. In fact, there needs to be a rethinking, there needs to be a cash crash, whereby one can honestly deal with what is probably still hidden from costs in the resorts. As has been said, the limit on loadability has long been exceeded. We need to rethink and must not continue suffocate, nor build on verbal announcements, which, as you experience permanently, are then not put into reality. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In reality we can say that we have heard a strong announcement once again, but there will be a weak implementation. That is what we have experienced in recent years in all the budget debates and also in the general debate. The headlines, the lines of communication, are already true, but they unfortunately do not stand up to the reality of God.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e3990	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e4012	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! At the beginning, I felt that a common budget should have been presented, a budget decided jointly by the Federal Government, but after yesterday's heads of the Finance Minister, but also after the statements of the two club members today, I would rather feel that a budget has been presented against each other and that this federal government is very far from a common will. And this is certainly unfortunate because it is not in the interest of the Austrians. [[Congratulation with Greens and NEOS, as well as with members of the FPÖ.]] Traditionally, we Greens are also starting our assessment of the budget with careful positive remarks, and what we are evaluating positively I would like to say briefly. Of course, it is a conservative budget. The European Union's fiscal policy objectives are essentially being achieved, and there are slight improvements there and there. I would like to mention the increase in funds for development cooperation – parentheses on: However, I do not want these additional resources to be used for repatriation measures, but rather it should enable real poverty reduction and development cooperation to be done to clamp – a slight increase in the integration budget, a slight increase in the labour market, and finally, in the field of education, €300 million was set at least once for 2017. Well, that's positive once in a while. What has failed is an understanding of the major issues, the great challenges for the future and what really needs to be addressed now in order to create future security for the next generation by 2020, 2025. We have very clear ideas here, and I think that these ideas could be shared by many here in the house once we can get through with the mutual prevention of leaving out the mutual haxl jobs and really focusing on the central issues of the future. In any case, these concern the entire educational area, investments from childcare to universities, research and development as an absolute priority setting, jobs and investment in jobs – as we also have very concrete ideas that are directly linked to climate protection, then I will talk about it later – to reduce taxes on labour – I think we have heard this for 15 to 20 years now – investments in social security and, above all, the need not to lose sight of the growing gap between the poor and the rich even in Austria. I think these are objectives that we can all agree on together. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can't save you a little side shift or sidestep: As far as investment in social security is concerned, you, Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, have repeatedly opened the debate on minimum security. You have talked about a lid again, and I would like to reject it in all my determination and once again emphasize who it is about. If you're talking about a lid at the minimum security, then you're primarily talking about families in need and the several children. And for families in need who have several children – I have two children, which is certainly a challenge, but if someone has three children or even four children – mastering everyday life is an insane achievement. And if you are in a social emergency and can no longer rely on something, namely being supported – that is what you want, you want to shorten, you want to limit – then this happens exclusively on the back of the children. [[Abg. Wöginger: Do not need 3 000 €...!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wooger: Go!]] What does that mean? – This means that these children will no longer be able to go on excursions, that they will no longer be invited to birthday parties, because there is a gift to bring, which will cost 15 to 20 €. [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl]] That's exactly what it's all about. [[Abg. Lugar: Such a fool! You don't believe that!]] You can no longer afford to do the remedial work. These are exactly the issues, and every mayor will confirm it to you: Nevertheless, you need to help these families, even if you want to cover the minimum security. You have to help these polychild families anyway, you can't just let them hang. [[Abg. Kickl: It can't be an acquisition model to create multiple-child families...!]] This is what I mean by investing in social security. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The labour market is certainly the major challenge, and we have a very clear concept. Unfortunately, in the 2017 budget, the environment, climate change and all climate change measures have been discontinued with less resources than in 2016. This may be quite surprising now, because in December of last year we all took note of all the pleasures, except for the liberals, who have not ratified it, that the state community, all the states of this earth, have agreed together on a global climate agreement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] In other words, we are now starting a major renovation of our industrial society – we are now beginning to build houses, to construct mobility, to build cars now – which is essentially based on the fact that it is CO2-free in 2050. This goal of achieving less than 2 degrees of global warming would also mean an insane advantage for Austria not only for agriculture, also for tourism and for the economy. We can only achieve this goal by investing, and I believe that we can also very well agree here that these investments are future investments and also bring additional jobs. Paul Krugman has now said on his visit to Salzburg: “We should talk more about the climate. Everything else is completely insignificant in the relationship. The climate could also be a solution to the economic problems we have. Active climate policy would be an economic incentive for the next five to ten years. It’s amazing how little we talk about it, even if evidence is getting bigger and bigger, that we’re heading for a disaster.” Less and less talk about it – your only sentence yesterday, Minister of Finance, on climate change, on climate protection, on the climate agreement was: Yes, this is important and right, but you are waiting for next year, where the Minister for the Environment will present a climate strategy, and then we will discuss some measures. I think that dealing with a sentence like this is really, really, really weak, really, really, really, really ignorant and really, really future-blind, given the challenge. Money for this is available. We are very focused on the economic research institute, whose experts have once calculated how much climate-damaging subsidies are thrown out of the window every day in Austria and what job and employment effects we actually would have with investments in this area. They speak of 16 000 to 40 000 new jobs each year – in addition. And that is, I think, an option that you unfortunately ignore with this budget. We regret this, I regret, and I would like to see this kind of future compatibility get a much higher priority in the discussions, even now in the Committee. In conclusion: What also surprised me or us is the style of one another and also the open hostility as regards a proposal by the Federal Chancellor, who was interesting on and on himself, namely the question of the New Deal. Except for very vague announcements, we have heard too little. We have heard that it is about reform ideas, investment, to link up public and private, then a proposal to flexify working time, but I miss a real, so to speak, common sense in this quite debateable question, and that is a pity. In the financial framework, the new members of the Federal Government have not yet had the possibility of setting accents. Now it would have been the opportunity to set new accents and really focus on them, but unfortunately there is nothing in the budget of God at all. It is extremely conservative, financial framework expenditure and prescriptions are primarily continued, and the major real challenges are essentially excluded. I think the commentators who described: Red and black are already warming up for the next election campaign!, have a right. I do not have the impression that there is still a great common desire for a great common understanding with regard to future issues, and that is unfortunate. I think if the population in Austria is satisfied with one, then it is this eternal dispute to be the eternal self-intellectual ability to be faced with reforms from the education sector to the integration area to the budget, and constantly with different positions of red and black and to see no solutions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon]] We would offer this differently, and I would like us to be able to add some priority to the Committee's negotiations, first and foremost to the environment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e4151	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e4222	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! There was a lot of talk about zeros now, about the ominous black zero. It remains open whether this describes the assembly of Members or the project of the Minister of Finance, but I would also like to refer to the phenomenon of zero more precisely, because we are now discussing the second budget speech by you, Mr Finanzminister, and I believe that yesterday's debate and today's shows that we have a record deficit in this country, and this is a very serious one: We have a record deficit in common. Since World War II, there has never been a government in this country that has demonstrated as little common ground as that government has. This partnership is broken, and this broken partnership makes this country sick if you continue. This is a real problem for this country. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Finanzminister, I have followed both of your speeches very carefully and have also looked at me again, and there are now clear patterns for the second time, because I have great sympathy for the words you bring, but the words that are brought here by the Minister for Finance have nothing to do with reality. I am trying to roll up the last two budget speeches of the Minister of Finance. Last year's big headline was: “Every day without reform is a lost day.” I quote Minister of Finance Schelling: “Every day we wait for implementation costs even more money. Tax payers' money – for which I am responsible. Every day we don’t correct the state and its expenses and benefits is a lost day.” That's all right, I sign it all. “We have agreed to a clear reform plan,” says Schelling. And then we're going to go on: "We need these reforms in order to be able to draw up the budgets of the following years. Then: The challenges on the expenditure side with regard to care, pensions and social benefits are becoming more, and not less!" All of this is right, Minister, all this is right, appreciated Federal Government! The point is just: They're allegation artists, like she hasn't seen this republic yet. They do not deliver, they are reform leaders, they include reforms that do not take place then. For Schelling as a person: I have sympathy for you, I have always said that, but you are and remain the most prominent prisoner of this country. You're hostageed by structurally stoned parties and by a shady system that obviously doesn't let you come to what you're up to. This is the most positive of all interpretations. It would be negative for us to have something really precipitated here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] I can prove it, too. I can prove that this budget is another zero for the population. We have heard last year, and that is what is going on: five major reforms. [[Abg. Lugar: When does he come now, the...?]] Also this year, Schelling says: “We need determined steps forward. We need concrete improvements, and we need courage, and ‘must’, that stands for M like making, U like implementing and T like doing.” “Have courage” – that was our campaign log, and that you are increasingly taking over our language, we are pleased. Only: We want action to follow! Unfortunately, you cannot put the courage to your spring wreath, Minister! You can attach the zero to your spring wreath, because what you present here is of course insufficient, lustless Limbo - zero; of course insufficient, lustless, Limbo. They lay down lattes and then dance down. There are five lattes you've laid down. [[Abg. Brosz: How about the positive?]] [[Abg. Lugar: Positive!]] Late number 1: Financial compensation. [[The speaker turns over on the score display so that “SPÖVP” and “Control Payer” and “1 : 0” can be read.]] [[Abg. Let's go!]] This has now been postponed for several years – two years of financial compensation negotiations. The Minister of Finance said last year: Now the financial compensation comes, it comes until autumn 2016. – We now have autumn 2016, there is nothing to see from the financial compensation! [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Mr Schelling, what is to come is probably an extension of this misery which we are currently having, an extension of this misery. It is about clear federal states-communal competences and clear federal states-communal responsibilities. “Until now in Austria everyone is responsible for something, but nobody is responsible for anything” – quote Schelling. And you will prolong it. This is a claim, and it is a zero for the population – unfortunately. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kickl and Mr Lugar.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Who has the point...?]] Point 2: Cold Progression. You promised last year: We're dedicated to the cold progression. We finally give people back the money we take away from them by the automatic collection office Schelling/cold Progression every year. – You didn’t keep your promise. Also this year you announce it again, and you won't keep it again next year, otherwise it would be pictured. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] You have to picture the cold progression with half a billion euros. She's not pictured, that is, you're going to take away money from people. We have the second highest tax rate in Europe and are at the top of the road. This is not okay, and that is because we have the highest unemployment since the Second World War. [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as Mr Schenk and Mr Steinbichler.]] Second proposal, second claim: Zero for the population. [[The speaker flips over again on the score display, so that “2 : 0” can be read.]] [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: 2 : 0!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Third claim: You have claimed that there is an educational reform. You said last year: 17. November, and then comes the big educational reform. [[On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats,]] ==References== It was presented in November: High five, almost horny educational reform. And then it was said: We will implement until June 2016. – You only have one sixteenth to one sixth, if you appreciate it well, implemented it; 0.2 approximately, rounded zero. The education reform is and remains a zero number for the population. Third promise – claims artists SPÖ and ÖVP. [[The speaker flips over again on the score display, so that “3 : 0” can be read.]] [[Abg. Strache: A Gate Again!]] - Yes, you shoot gates on the floor, but for the populace, you look zero. That's how you need to read this, Mr. Strache. It's a little bit... [[Call at the FPÖ:3 : 0 for the...]] - Why? Bureaucratisation reduction: You promised a comprehensive red tape reduction last year, Minister! - Yes, come on, come on! [[Federal Minister Schelling: Come on!]] They say every time: Come on, come on, come on! And that's why you're hurrying with your own coalition partner. There is nothing in the budget of red tape, while small and medium-sized enterprises suffer from overload. Fourth claim of Schelling – zero for the population. [[The speaker flips over again on the score display, so that “4 : 0” can be read.]] Finally: Pension reform. Mr. Minister, you announced at the end of February 2016, there is a big pension reform. And there the SPÖ has to stop, because the numbers are, of course, huge. The Minister also points it out. – We go from € 20 billion to € 23.4 billion in 2020. There's no reform coming. [[The speaker flips over again on the score display, so that “5 : 0” can be read.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] There's no reform coming. They claim: Pension reform – once again the ÖVP, just as the ÖVP has been in the government for 10 858 days and is always claiming things. It claims to the population: We've been reducing taxes, not new taxes – for over 10,000 days. And what did you do? – The highest tax rate we have seen! [[Abg. Tamandl: And the tax reform is nothing?]] – The cold progression also eats this tax reform. Within three years, the tax reform is gone, foot. That's exactly what you know. [[New call of the abg. Tamandl.]] I'll finish. [[Abg. Wheeler: Half-time!]] Mr. Minister, you really deliver a number voodoo here, and that's wild. The next government is building up things that are huge. If I just add up: You now have 1 billion € from the bank package so you have a unique effect. You've announced the cold progression, but you don't figure out how to finance it. [[Federal Minister Schelling:... Budget!]] This is €0.5 billion a year for the next government where you have a hole. They also have €4 billion per year from 2020 onwards. If interest increases again to the level before the crisis, then we have additional 4 billion € interest per year. [[Federal Minister Schelling: At 30-year-olds...!]] That means: The next government from 2019 onwards lacks €10 billion, once only casually looked at. That is, it will be almost impossible to picture a course as much as before. With the budget of next year, you will make a 5 : 0 against the population, the 54. Year in a row debt, and I consider this to be irrational, deeply unresponsible, and a disappointment, a full zero number for the population. [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Who has won?]] – 5 : 0!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e4554	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e4577	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to quote briefly from the budget speech of the Minister for Finance: The abolition of cold progression, the pensions are reformed, wage side costs are lowered, defoliation, debureaucratisation, administrative reform, we cremp the sleeves up! [[Federal Minister Schelling: I didn't say that!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – He's coming up with what I'm trying to do. Now many are wondering why I quote what's in the budget speech. That was not the budget speech of this year, that was his first one he held here. And that's exactly what you said in your current situation. We have the feeling that we're in a loop of time, and you said we're right. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Again and again the Murmeltier greets!]] [[Abg. Krainer: We always have the feeling when you talk!]] [[Abg. Strache: Always trouble with Bernie!]] Do you know why we have this feeling? – Because You recognized the problems at the first budget speech you gave here, and at that time we were in favour of it and we said: Finally, a finance minister comes to recognize the problems. And you said at that time, you're now going to be implemented. And what are you doing with the current budget speech? - You just repeat it again. You could have repeated your first budget speech 1 : 1 because it has not changed in the meantime. [[Abg. Wöger: So you're bad?]] And now ask yourself, you, as an entrepreneur: What a pleasure you would be if you were the owner of a company and the managing director stood down every year and told you: The revenues go back, the revenues go back, the products are not what they should be, the administration does not work, we have too much bureaucracy, and, and, and!Unknown term type: "%s".? And every year he tells you the same thing, but nothing happens. What would happen? Do you do it with such a managing director? I think you'd send him to the desert. [[Abg. Kickl: What does that mean for the Stronach team?]] That's exactly the problem: We can't send you to the desert, but the question remains why you don't implement anything. Now, of course, the argument is also from your side, you hear it all the time between the lines: Yeah, if I could, but I've got the SPÖ on my neck, there's nothing going on, I'm going to be so disabled. [[Abg. Wöger:... at the neck!]] I know what to do, but the SPÖ doesn't want to join me, what am I supposed to do? – Okay, let’s assume that this is true, that you know what to do, and that you’re motivated, but the SPÖ is slowing down so much. Then I wonder why you said the following things in the current budget speech: You have said that we must finally know where the taxpayers are going. You said: ‘There are [...] holes in which money is sifting’. We don't know where this money is going. Where are these holes? We need to make them hard on the ground. – Mr Minister, what prevents you from doing so? If you don't know where the money flows, if you don't know those holes, who's to know them? Then you said in your current budget speech, we finally have to check the expenditure if they are timely, whether they are necessary and whether they achieve the desired results. - Who, if not you, can do that, who? What prevents you from doing so? What Is Preventing the Henker You're trying to do exactly that? [[Abg. Wöginger: Nice to speak!]] And now tell us all seriously that you have set up a working group in your ministry to do exactly that. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Listen!]] Can you explain to me why you didn't do this right after your last budget speech? Why did we have to wait here forever until that finally happened? That's why you can't talk to the SPÖ. I know it's difficult with the SPÖ, but I'm convinced that if you really took it seriously and really meant seriously, then you also made reforms with the SPÖ, I'm convinced of that. And if that doesn't work, at least you'll make reforms where you have it in your hands! There are some examples where you really have it in your hand. That's not what I'm talking about now, because what you did to the HETA is no merit. [[Abg. Wögerer: What?]] They went here and got rid of a problem in the old-fashioned way by simply giving the other everything they wanted. [[Federal Minister Schelling: How did you do it?]] You're up to date, you knew that the creditors had written down 50 percent of their claims, you knew that. Also the banks that still have HETA shares have written off 50 percent, you know. And what are you doing? – They give them almost 100 percent and let them make a profit as well, and the whole at the expense of taxpayers! It's not a merit. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is the old fashion, according to the motto: I want this from the table, I'm going to get it on the socks, and now we're gonna have to pay those who can't defend themselves anyway. That is the problem in this government. As far as officials are concerned, too: You know that for the second time this law has been tilted, that officials are still waiting for €3 billion in claims. What are you doing? – You murks around, make another law, a law again, that will be repealed, you play on time. They just play on time and don't deal with the problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] – Ah, the Schelling is not responsible. Well, sure! Then who is responsible? Who is responsible when it comes to dealing with the money properly? You said it yourself – I wrote it down, and it also says here: We're just managing unemployment. – This is not in the sense of proper accounting or not in the sense of a proper finance minister. They are the one who has that in hand. If you really can't do anything, so if you can't get along with the SPÖ if you don't have anything in your own field, if you can't find these holes, if you can't find out where the money flows, if that's all impossible, if that's really true, I'm asking: What to do Then you're in the job? Then why are you Minister of Finance? [[Abg. Wöginger: Self-invention process!]] I think that something is possible, it is a lot possible – and the pressure is enormous. Finally, as regards the additional costs: You said we have winners, these are internal, external, judicial and education. – If you look closely at: The only winners in this budget are the refugees, because the total of € 2 billion that flow in there is one-to-one in dealing with the refugee crisis. I haven't heard from you yet that you might have to turn on the mind a little bit and say that now we have 100 000 refugees here who are here, then we have another 100 000 illegals, who may not even be there. You don't think about what you're doing with them before you get more money into that and push money into the budget. But on the other hand, where we really need it, namely in education, there is additional money, but that goes back into refugee care. Nothing goes into the structures again. That's the problem. That's why: If you take this seriously as a Minister of Finance, then it is time for you to finally wrap up the SPÖ a little so that it moves a little bit – I know, this is difficult with the SPÖ – and that you go ahead with a good example and do something in your own field. [[Abg. - Where are you going?]] Where the problems actually lie and where you have it in your hand, where you can move something, you can prove that you are a finance minister who is courageous, who not only claims to be constantly claiming that he goes boldly into the new times and is boldly addressing something, but in reality leaves everything in his old age.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e4793	The next word is reported by Mr. Bundeskanzler Mag. Core. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e4815	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear High House! Dear visitors to the galleries and in front of the TV screens at home! For me, it is the first budget debate I have experienced on this government bank, and I must say that it has been quite clear how we have discussed and how we outline the various areas of problem in our Republic. Let me therefore take the opportunity to make some clarification. One thing seems particularly important to me: This is a budget that the government has jointly prepared, we stand by this jointly developed budget, it is our budget, just like that of the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you look at the big lines in it – and it has been discussed a lot – you realize that since spring, improvements have occurred since the last federal financial framework law. We are very glad that these improvements have occurred because they show that there is the willingness and the will to deal with the tax money carefully and sparingly. If you look at the numbers in detail: The halving of the structural deficit over spring is such a point that we can stress. A faster reduction in the government debt ratio is the second point we are quite satisfied with. Very important – I have stressed it several times – is also the fact that we will spend €600 million less on the financing of pensions next year than we thought in spring. This is not done on its own, but it is the result of measures. But let me summarise it as follows: I believe that this budget is sound, but a solid budget is not good enough. I believe that we must continue our policy, that we must pursue this project of consolidation of the State budget, but at the same time there is the need to revive the economy and consistently invest in the location and in the economy. If you look at the priorities of this budget, you can see that this manuscript is very readable in some places. First of all, this is our biggest challenge for the labour market, because in the end it is always about employment, about bringing people into wages and bread. We have the financing of training obligations, active labour market policies, we have the start-up package, and, most importantly, I stress this over and over again, we clearly have accents here when it comes to promoting public investment. We have €5.2 billion in public investment in the future of this location, this country, which is €800 million more than last year. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have driven forward the important focus of education – insufficient, as I mean, but at least first steps – we have provided significantly more money for the teaching sector and as much money for the teaching of safety needs, because we all know how important it is to people in our country. This also leads to an increase in the level of public service staff, but not so to say in the cozy heated stoves, but these are people who stand in the area of security, education, the federal army, the federal office of their husband and their wife. We have tried not to allow the central administrative areas to grow further. But if you list these positives, if you list these successes, I must say that I am quite of the opinion of WIFO and IHS economic researchers, who yesterday discussed the budget and who have come to an assessment, that is not a great breakthrough, but there are accents that point in the right direction. For the big breakthrough we'll need more time, we didn't have this time. This budget is at best a duty, but the course still has to come. [[Abg. Kickl: This is the new shame!]] [[Abg. No big throw, then!]] This is the time to take place in the next Federal Financial Framework Act; the time is the next spring, as we know. This is then about the consistent test of this government – I am right in giving the opposition – whether we are able to reform, - willful and also able to implement what we say. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We also had the opportunity to understand that the presentation of the budget is the presentation of classical education, and that is something important, we want to invest there. I personally may also add a quote from the great Elvis Presley, who once meant: ‘A little less conversation, a little more action’. Translated in German: A little less talk, a little more action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To be honest, reform rhetoric is one thing, and reform positions are the other, but what will really bring us forward are certainly not reforms at the sleep car pace, that will not be enough, that will not be enough. I have no desire to stand up for the next budgets and listen to the very legitimate criticism of the opposition in the long run. Yes, you got right points, and I can tell you, the paint must test will be whether we pick up, record and drive this ball. So what do we have to do? – From my point of view, it is relatively simple: If you are a company, you are a big economy and your biggest challenge is to grow, increase sales – translated into our language: Forcing employment, providing jobs and economic growth – it is clear that this is the key challenge. To create employment, to solve our problems in the labour market, to solve our problems with pensions, to solve our health problems and to make it easier for us to finance future projects than we do today; that is why we need this economic growth. There is also the following point: When we observe how our economies and our world are developing, we see that since 2008 we have been in Europe and now increasingly also in the growing economies of the Emerging Markets or in the United States, we have insufficient economic growth that is negative in terms of employment. I can only quote the conservative – I emphasize it: the conservative – economist, the Nobel prize winner Robert Lucas, who once meant: When we're in a hole, we're all Keynesians. – What he wants to say with this is absolutely clear: The main task of policy in such a situation is to create employment, create employment and create employment. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wöger.]] If you do not take this seriously, you have a policy of oblivion; that is why it is so important for us to stress once again: Yes, we confess that we need cooperation with private individuals, we need an environment in which companies invest, but the state, the public authority has the task of moving forward if it does not work well, and to say: In this situation, we're doing something and don't just watch! If you look at infrastructure investments, you have to say, I think that this is a very positive development. We invest very much in transport, roads and railways, but above all in the telecommunications sector. For example, broadband development is such a keyword. This is crucial, because digitization will come. We have no chance at all to decide whether this fits us or not. Technology will continue to evolve, and we cannot put it in a box, lock it and free it from the attic, but we must actively face this need and this challenge. In turn, it does not need economic ambiguities, but a wise mix of different measures. This wise mix of different measures – if you want to know what I mean when I talk about it – is: We need to restrict public investment by private means in order to make the most of the site. I can recommend – I was there 14 days ago –: Take a look at Lakeside Park at Wörthersee in Klagenfurt! This is a campus where companies are located, which has been massively financed by the Ministry of Infrastructure – together with the country of Carinthia and together with the municipality of Klagenfurt. 1 100 jobs have been created there in eight years, 64 companies have settled. [[Abg. Kickl: Who invented it?]] [[Abg. Kassinger: A Carinthian success story!]] - Yeah, yeah, you're right. Fair enough, that's it! If you look at this and talk to the people there – these are great companies with creative ideas that have sensational future prospects – you can find out, they are all there because we help them with financing through aws, through the FFG and the individual funding instruments. We need to further expand this and further restrict it. There are a few other good examples in this country if you want to learn how the economy in Austria really is. One thing I know quite well – that is not only a little bit of a life idea with me, but obviously also with other Members – these are the ÖBBBB. If you look at the subject, what's behind it, you can see that the Austrian railway system is something we can be incredibly proud of. We have one of the most innovative industries. We have dozens of companies that have achieved enormous export success all over the world, because we give them a stable home market in Austria at the ÖBB, where they can develop and expand products. Now, if you stand up and complain that the expenditure for the ÖBB is too high – that has happened and has been said in the last few days – then I have a fundamental problem of understanding, first of all, with how to decide a framework, a long-term financing, and say: We want this and confess to public transport! – a thousand times in cutting red bands through politics, from all political groups – and turns back and says: [[Abg. Moser: No!]] Well, that doesn't really fit us all, that's all too much! I am now telling you something about these investments in the ÖBB: Once you have looked at the balance sheet and the profit and loss account, you see that the infrastructure investment and the funds the taxpayer makes available are the smallest problem for the welfare and woe of the ÖBB itself. But if you say you don't want this infrastructure investment, I can give you two thoughts: Then we really need courage, and we don't just have to spell that out, but we also have to live it, and then someone has to go to Tyrol and explain to the head of state why the Brenner base tunnel is not going to do anything; then someone has to drive to the countries and communities and explain why we don't renovate railway stations and routes. That's courage, and I'm allowed to invite all those present. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second thought, and that is why I personally do not think anything about this kind of criticism and we need these investments: In the ÖBB this is a passerby in the balance sheet, but this is money that goes into investment that flows into the Austrian economy, first and foremost Kapsch – we know this company –, Voest, Siemens, Plasser & Theurer and so on and so on. These are those who benefit from it, a PORR, a Strabag. [[Abg. Strache: Hazelsteiner! He's happy!]] There are tens of thousands of jobs behind it, and products behind it that these companies have successfully exported to the whole world. Yes, you can turn it all off, but then you do not harm the Austrian economy, but the Austrian economy to the highest degree. And, honestly, for me, this is the wonderful proof of who really is the partner of the economy in this country and who really is the economic party. [[Prolonged condolences with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] But we do not need to overestimate the emotions now, because what I have learned from this budget debate in the last two days is that there is the rhetoric and there the reality, since the update and there the chart band. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] Anyone who wants to understand the budget should take a close look at the volume of the tables, because there is the whole truth, namely that we continue this course of strengthening the Austrian economy through public investment. This has nothing to do with debt making. If you complain about it and get upset about it and say: Debt, debt, debt! - Yeah, no one wants to blame. We don't want any debts either. We also want to have a zero deficit, but I really don't think anything about package diffamations in this context in the wrong place. I'd like to take a few distractions from the saying. I believe that we must continue this path. When we think about the economic policy of the future and the months and years to come, it is about two or three principles that we should not lose sight of. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] The first is: What does economy mean? – Economy is not only made up of Excel sheets, not just dividends, not just capital and returns, but the economy has primarily to serve people in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our goal must be to create an economy that benefits everyone and not just a few. If we are talking today about the big issues of the future and the big social issues, I say: Yes, the pension reform is necessary, we know demographic development, but we also need to see that this 100 € one-time payment, for example, about which we discuss so intensively, is a fraction of what we have less on pension expenditure this far, so we should not have to worry for too long about financing this measure. The actual pension issue – and that is what we have to tackle – is quite another: In Austria, we have the situation that 1.4 million people work part-time or operate in individual companies and offer their labour force. We know that many of them do not voluntarily do so because they are forced into this role because they have not found decent jobs that allow them to come out and have a meaningful existence. However, the real challenge of pension reform is: What are we doing for these people now? Each of us knows exactly, of course, they don't pay into the pension funds, and each of us knows exactly that this is the fabric, made of old age poverty. When we talk about the pension reform, we are not just talking about the tables and the figures, we are talking about the people who will one day be affected by it in a sustainable and negative way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another important point: My task is clearly defined, I am the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria and responsible for the entire government work. That's my understanding. It's clear to me: When we talk about efficiency and economy, there must be no red and black resorts, no red and black projects, but only Austrian projects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And when we talk about the need to make us more efficient, I say: Yeah, well, the Minister of Finance is right, let's look at the big spending blocks! Let us see how efficient the education system is! Let's look at the ÖBB – please! Let us look at the health sector! Let us also look at all the other sectors that have been mentioned there, but let us make this really consistent and thorough! If we are on this task, please consider how good and valuable the economic promotions in Austria are – that is not a little money. If we spend money on this in the future, I would like to be able to answer the question: How many jobs do we really create with this, or do we just produce the money, know what it costs us, and actually have no idea what the effect of the measures is? [[Abg. Kickl: That's how you're doing immigration policy!]] Or family policy: Let us ask ourselves why it is that we have one of the highest payouts in the OECD area and the rate of reproduction in Austria is still so low that the Austrians have so few children, despite the high level of investment. Or let us look at the field of research and development. I am a great supporter of the plan to increase the 3 percent, the percentage we invest in research and development in this country even further, but I want to know exactly what we actually get for it, and why it is so that we weaken patents and that we have not produced a Nobel Prize winner for decades – with the much money we invest there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann]] There is a permanent theme, and it would be far too cheap for me to calculate it against each other; You know this old game, as I mean, very crazy: One shudders over the train, the other shudders over agriculture. That's crazy. And if there is a tradition of Bruno Kreisky, which really means something to me, then it is that he has achieved a lot for the small farmers and especially for the farmers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: But you have forgotten the Jelinek, it will have no joy!]] I can tell you that I think this is extremely important, and it is a problem that farmers suffer in this way from income development, as we are currently experiencing. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Steinbichler.]] I know a little about this, because my parents-in-laws come from a small farm, and I helped them in accounting. I can tell you that some of the resources we have in our budget come to those of us, which is why I am really interested in the question of how we can also promote this sector so efficiently that those who need it will benefit and we will not only continue to carry on traditional structures. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of FPÖ and Greens and of the Agg. Steinbichler.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Pirklhuber.]] But don't get me wrong. I do not think that we are investing too much in this sector, I am just talking about the structure, how this should be done. Third point, third derivative of the saying: I would like to accept the outstretched hand to clean up with the clienttelism. And if we do, we should also say in this case: If we do not look at the one side, we do not look at the other side, but we do it consistently in the sense of a reform project against the standstill! I believe that in this context we will often have to jump social democrats over our shadows, but others will also have to try to cross this latte with us. When we talk about clienttelism: We have made a proposal on how we can make the financing of day-to-day schools in such a way that we can disable one level. To abolish clienttelism means to take it seriously, to take up this ball, to make management more efficient, especially in the field of education. We know who we need to have these discussions with. If we are already putting the funding of day-to-day schools on new feet and making sense, I suggest that we do so all over education and take part in the health sector and in all other areas where we have a hypertrophic state structure. – That means to act against clienttelism; the paint must test will come. Startups: I believe that what we have done in this area is crucial. This is about thousands of business start-ups, thousands of companies that we want to get under the arms. This is important, because there is great dynamics inside, a huge potential to create jobs. We have presented a project that, I believe, is very valuable, and it must follow the basic idea that, after a successful start-up phase, Austrian companies will not migrate, but will find a location in Austria where they will feel comfortable, where they can work productively and consistently. Interestingly, this is a subject that is relevant throughout Europe, and we must be aware of it: Even if we take a measure, the world is moving on again, the development is accelerating, the others are not sleeping, they are doing a lot. We are therefore forced to turn on this screw permanently and to create better location conditions. If we want to do this and say that we don't want clienteleism anymore, then I suggest that we continue to help these young entrepreneurs, for example by saying: Up to a turnover limit of € 10 million you can do your things with the digital signature in the future and no longer have to go to the notary! – That means cleaning up with the clienttelism. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Willi.]] Or let's look at eco electricity promotion: Member of the Glawischnig has rightly pointed out that climate protection is our generation topic. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's why it is shortened! The budget is cut short, 2016 and 2017!]] This is a huge opportunity and a huge potential to invest in economic growth. I think that is a very essential idea. One of the similarities in Austria is the promotion of green electricity. The Austrians now cost almost € 1 billion. That is positive and meaningful. We have achieved our renewable energy goals, that has been a sensible, good policy; but now we have reached a point where we see that costs continue to grow, and we know that there is a segment where we spend €300 million on the promotion of biomass and biogas. This technology is about twice as expensive as wind current we promote, or solar power that we promote. And if we say that we do not want to have a clienttelism and we deliberately want to do something for the environment, we want to start investment, we want to do good for environmental protection, then, I suggest, we look at what we really are promoting and what really is going on in the future with our climate goals, and we look at what is really just hidden subsidies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] I would like to conclude – you apologise for the clarity of my language, but we have conducted a discourse that, I believe, has required a clear answer. [[Abg. Brosz: Clearness in the budget would have been more interesting!]] When said here, the SPÖ brakes: I have tried to show you, on the basis of a few examples, that the opposite is the case and that we are willing to change our economy and our society permanently. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The ÖVP is slowing down!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Say something about the problem!]] With today's budget, we are on a path that we can be satisfied with in view of the short period of time, but we know in the sense that the budget is figures-cast policy, that we need a much clearer manuscript here, and I know here in the Minister of Finance for Finance a firm supporter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e5140	Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner is next spoken. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e5179	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Quite honestly, I am almost difficult to evaluate these remarks now! [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With all due respect, Mr. Federal Chancellor, that was now no presentation of what the budget or joint projects were about to do, which was – very strongly oriented on all topics – a stand-point. [[Abg. Rädler: That's it! It's party!]] For whom? - Okay, for us, we'll take this. However, I would like to begin with a few preliminary remarks on the subject of budget, which is the reason for this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because some of the facts were presented earlier, as we do in the government as a whole, I would like to express the following: The budget is the overall work of the Federal Government as a whole and is the numbering work that represents the activities of the Federal Government, that is clear. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Remember!]] [[Abg. Strache: An overall work of art, so to speak!]] That there are ideological differences, you have now noticed, but nevertheless, I think, it is a very successful step in difficult times to meet people's problems. [[Cheerfulness at ÖVP and FPÖ]] Second point: They propose to the Minister of Finance, who is presenting his second budget in these days, that it would be similar to what has been in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know the Federal Ministry Act, do you know the other federal laws? Do you know the structure? – Mr. Finanzminister can essentially no different and must illustrate what the laws are and what the activities of the Ministries are about to happen. And from this perspective it is a very, very good budget! [[Abg. Rossmann: I thought laws can be changed too!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Aha, the laws are to blame!]] [[Abg. Moser: This is the latest!]] Surely this is a budget – and this is the third pre-remark – that has potential up. Mr Bundeskanzler, I too could use this third point – perhaps you know the book “How Really Is Reality?” by Watzlawick – to ask: What is rhetoric and what is action, what is action or what are activities? . Yes, I think we have reached the point of duty, which we have not yet completed, because we should do what others are doing as a compulsory programme in the field of pensions, in the field of labour market. We're still far away from the course. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am not concerned now with calculating cheaply and saying that there is this department competence and there is that – there are differences. And because of these differing views, it is also important that a pension reform package has been available for over a year. Implementation could now be somewhat more dynamic. As far as the labour market is concerned, the Minister of Finance has rightly pointed out: That's our worry package! We are being passed on at the European level and were already better. There is nothing to do with pouring more and more money into this system – it is now €8.6 billion spent on it, that's much; it's more than education – but we also have to deal with the efficiency of the system. This is not only my view or the view of anyone, but the shared view of the government. So you have us on your side when it comes to coming from rhetoric into action. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Cap.]] With this, ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of what today's debate should actually be like: the debate on the budget. We have now had an economic crisis for seven years, and yet we now have a budget for the third year – twice under Minister of Finance Schelling – which has a structural zero deficit. A structural zero deficit! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] This indicates a certain continuity in what our financial policy is about, but this also points to – you see, when you look at the data – that the right policy has been pursued. We are now working out of the economic crisis, and that is not so easy at all. You always like to quote rankings yourself. We worked forward in three rankings. The last ranking was that of the World Economic Forum, where we improved from 23rd to 19th place. Interestingly, it is hardly mentioned – it has been addressed – why: because research and development have been positively evaluated and because on the other hand it has been very positively assessed that we now have more qualifications in students in the so-called Mint field – mathematics, computer science and so on – than before. In each area, we are more than 5 percent above the OECD average. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is it about now? – It is now about putting in place the infrastructure measures. – Right, I’m not against the Bundesbahnen, not at all, but you have to have the right weight in the final effect. And what comes up with the right weighting, it is good that we now, especially in terms of start-ups, take the right measures. We have planned a total of €62 million in this budget and adopted a package of almost €200 million for the next few years. I think this is the right approach: We need new, young, innovative companies to cope with the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs Glavischnig, I think you have today referred to the reduction of labour costs. In this context, I would like to say: Yes, that's exactly what the budget is all about. For the first time, we now have the reduction of additional labour costs by € 1 billion, quite specifically by 0.4 percentage points, and this, according to WIFO, is responsible for creating 12 000 additional jobs in this area. Therefore, we are not only talking about the reduction of the corresponding costs, but we are also doing so! Please keep saying that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Next point: Mr Strolz, you have had a wonderful – I have played a long table tennis – Butterfly counting list, and who is 5 : 0 at the front that leads. So: The ÖVP is leading! You've apostrophized us. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: At the expense of the citizens!]] I got the impression that you really don't want to prove anything, but that was the orientation for your speech so you don't forget a point – a little rhetorical trick. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] You referred mainly to the question of cold progression and said that last year the Minister of Finance had spoken about it this year, that he did not realize it. Unfortunately, however, you have said that what we have actually achieved with the tax reform this year will be exhausted in three years. – Completely right! However, the question arises: Should this be in the 2017 budget, or is it not about developing a model against the cold progression, which is then shown in the 2018 budget? [[Abg. Stroll: But he has to prepare the room! ... billions!]] That is what the Minister for Finance has proposed. Because you've been talking to the billions: Do you know how high the inflation rate is? After all, the cold progression is the rate of inflation, and it is now intended to ensure that one is not punished because one comes into the next tax class. The inflation rate is 0.6 percent. [[Abg. Peter Worm: 1 percent!]] - Go, what? They didn't recognize the tax reform. In this context, however, it is always said that nothing is being done new and that there is no improvement in tax revenue. That is exactly where the Minister of Finance has done something in the framework of the tax reform, namely in the case of tax revenue and in the case of undeclared work. [[Abg. Rossmann: That was Budget 2016!]] Because you're always yelling – someone has called the registers: This is exactly the measure where the first companies now come and say: Actually, it was a good introduction, I finally have an overview of my company! [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: But this is the joke of the day!]] This has not created unemployment, as you think, but it has created equal rights for all entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Strache: How many micro-enterprises have locked up?]] Everyone works under the same principles. Do you know, Mr. Strache, what has been achieved? – This has finally enabled the individual entrepreneur to have an economic overview which he sometimes did not have himself, so this is a very important point. [[Abg. Lugar: You've never been so world-famous!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to draw attention to one point raised yesterday by the Minister for Finance: He'd like less indebtedness. On the whole, it is so that each one of you here goes to the speaker's desk and asks for more. I think you, Mr Strache, have said that we actually needed a minimum pension of €1200 or so. And in return, the Minister of Finance is accused that he is doing too little against the debt that we are reducing too little. In the final effect, this is a contradiction in your statements – that is your problem. [[Abg. Strache: But in migration policy you have the billions!]] This is a presentation by Mr Schellhorn, the brother of the honourable Member, of what has happened in recent years. [[keeping a graphic in height]] Since you probably do not recognize this due to the distance, I may verbally illustrate it: Austria is the least indebted countries in the last five years – a total of seven years – it is in sixth place. [[Abg. Haider: “Uplifted”!]] – You laugh and motize in this context, but do you know why? . We have had an economic crisis, and in the economic crisis, the EU and the experts themselves have recommended to set up appropriate activities on the basis of the automatic stabilizers so as not to endanger income and jobs. [[Abg. Lugar: Yes, eight years ago!]] That's what we did! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: And where are the reforms?]] Summary: We'll be the detailed chapter, what research... [[Abg. Lugar: Tell me where are the reforms?]] - Please? [[Abg. Lugar: Tell us where the reforms stay! Where are the reforms?]] . I have just referred to the reform on taxation, the cold progression is the next issue. Dear Andreas Schieder, what the investments are about – I can't spare you now – I share the opinion that has been addressed: Investment is actually the basis for jobs, and, of course, consumption has stimulated investment – unfortunately, it is only a replacement investment, not an expansion investment. In the final effect, however, this is the decisive size. Why? – There are also many surveys and studies of the WIFO: Why do entrepreneurs invest? – It is the look into the future, the assessment of the future, optimistic or negative, and I must tell you that: A machine tax or the like does not give a positive view of the future. Therefore, we do not worry about who the real economic party is – so as not to let that stand in the room. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last but not least... [[Abg. Street: 30 years of government responsibility have shown it! The economy will thank you!]] – 30 years of government responsibility have caused our country to cope better with the crisis than other countries, that we are well positioned from the basic data and that we are doing the reforms that are necessary – and I want to conclude with them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] We have common objectives regarding deregulation and debureaucratisation. I hope that in the major structural projects, we will also make it possible to get from rhetoric to implementation. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] We're in the middle of it. [[Abg. Street: In the middle and not in the middle!]] I think we're on a good path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e5600	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e5621	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, a budget debate can also be misused for election fights. [[Abg. Lopatka: You criticize...! That's really...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] A budget speech can also be misused. [[Call the ÖVP: He trusts!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Nice man!]] [[Further ongoing calls to the ÖVP.]] Whether this has any meaning, whether anyone benefits from it, is another question. Of course, it can rightly tell a government party or a government partner that what we are experiencing is a change in the economy, a change in the world. There are two main economic factors: There is income through work, and income is through capital. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] What we see is that the share of money – i.e. the income – is getting smaller from work and the share of money from capital is increasing. Our entire social system and the state finance itself more or less almost exclusively, at least to a large extent, by taxation of work. Everyone thinks we have to reduce the taxation of work. That means, of course, that capital will have to pay a higher share. It's just logical: Whoever says A has to say B. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] That means, of course, that we are here on a very pragmatic question. [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes, at the party!]] Now there is a party that says that we have to face this, and make a proposal how to extend a very small part of our taxation of labour to capital. And much is taxed on this proposal, just no machines. [[Call the ÖVP:Where?]] Of course, one can then defame this proposal as a machine tax, but whether that brings anything, whether that makes any sense, is another question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] I would think, especially if you are in government, you should argue a little intellectually and ask yourself a little reasonable about the problems of the future. And quite honestly: I am glad that we have a federal chancellor who finds the right tone here, gives the right answers, who sees what problems there are, and also thinks about how to meet them, who doesn't want to operate with diffamations or here with any party-tag speeches. [[Abg. Wheeler: Machine tax!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervening calls and ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] I am of course of the opinion that we need to discuss important issues, for example – and I would like to make the labour market – about the biggest problem we face, and these are the labour market and unemployment. [[Abg. Rädler: Who is the Minister of Social Affairs? Who is the Minister responsible?]] This is our biggest problem, and for us in politics, this is the biggest problem – not only in Austria, but also in the European Union. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, this is a logical end!]] When I analyse what the problems are in Austria, I conclude that this also has something to do with the fact that unemployment is rising in us because we have been successful, namely in several areas successful. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] First of all, we were successful in our efforts to make more women go to work, have a place on the labour market and find a job, which is also the case today. This is one of the reasons why unemployment has increased, because more women are on the labour market. A second reason why unemployment has increased is the fact that people are longer in employment. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] This is the consequence of the fact that we have said that we want to raise the effective retirement age, we want people to work longer, that they go into retirement later; the result is that more than 50-year-olds are on the labour market and fewer people are in retirement. The third reason is that there are more jobs in us that we have increased employment. And yes, we are a magnet for many people from our neighboring countries, primarily from Germany, but also from Hungary and Slovakia, who come to Austria to look for a job with us because they know they find a job, there they find well paid jobs. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This especially!]] And this is an area where the labour market is growing. We have not only increased unemployment, but above all we also have increasing employment; this is the analysis that we need to make. I do not think that because of the objection to the cost of unemployment too much, I find it particularly intelligent either. This cannot be the first conclusion you draw, but it is the question to ask: [[Abg. Wöginger: I'll bring you a proposal!]] How can we increase employment? And there you have to be ready to look at how it works in other parts of the world. There's one thing I'm saying: If you look at how to deal with the crisis in Europe or the European Union, for example, and how this has been done by the US, you can see that in Europe, which I do not think is completely wrong, but which is more critical of the focus, we have been madly focused on keeping the debt low, not to raise the old debt or to keep the deficit low, and not, or much less, to look at the labour market and unemployment. The US has done the opposite. The USA has said: The most important thing for us is employment and jobs, and we are – simplifiedly said – pretty squandering the debt at the moment, first we take care of the one and then the other. [[Aha-Rufe at ÖVP]] [[Abg. Lopatka: That's not true!]] That sounds a little flat, I admit, but in the core it's what happened. Now, of course, you have to look: Which policy was more successful? Where were you more successful? Where is economic growth higher: in the USA or in Austria? [[Abg. Lopatka: In Germany it is higher this year than in the USA!]] Where is unemployment lower: in the USA or in Austria? Where is economic growth higher: in the US or in the European Union? [[Abg. Lopatka: Germany is the most successful!]] You have to say, honestly: Apparently we didn't do everything right and apparently the US didn't do everything wrong! And quite honestly: To say: I shut my eyes to reality, because that contradicts my ideology!, Austria does not continue either. [[Calls and calls between Mr Lopatka and Mr Rossmann.]] Please, let us also be self-critical in the analysis of what has worked on the policy we have done, what has been successful, where we have weaknesses and where others are doing better! We pay more attention to the question of unemployment and employment, and not only – I do not say: not at all!, but I say: not only! – to look at debt and deficit, this process is probably the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e5900	Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e5921	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister and other members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, one can also use a budget speech for party day speeches, one can use it for basic reasons, but one is also clear We are talking about Austria here, and we are talking here about how we can bring the country back to the front. [[Abg. Rossmann: This will be a partisan speech now!]] I think this must be important to everyone in this room – not just the ÖVP! If we talk about the economy and the strengthening of the site, then, Mr Krainer, we will probably not help: introduce new taxes and continue to put on a debt rate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will improve in the individual areas, but that will not be fast enough. We will advance debt reduction from 2017 onwards in 2 percentage point steps. Of course, this is not satisfactory at all, because we actually wanted to create a 60 percent debt ratio by 2020. We will probably not succeed yet, but we should work intensively on it. We continue the growth and consolidation path, consistently, but we are also investing in the future. This budget includes enough forward-looking investment, for example in the field of security. And since this is always done so with the words, you don't need it all, there are other areas too, I would like to ask you one thing: Tell the population that we do not spend any extra money on security! [[Abg. Lugar:... Refugees work!]] I'm excited if the people would like to thank you, Mr Lugar. One thing is particularly remarkable in this House in budget debates: It is always said that we would not relieve the factor work. So, first of all, we have decided on a tax reform, with 1. January 2016 entered into force – as you all did not agree, it was not at all important to you that we relieve the working people of €5.2 billion – and, secondly, we have reduced the additional wage costs, and that will be €1 billion per year until 2018 – that is nothing – and we will continue this consistent path of tax reduction. [[towards opposition parties]] Today the terms tax progression or cold progression have already fallen a few times. The Minister of Finance – and he is a guarantee for that, I am sure; he is a good negotiator and he has provided all the support he needs from us – has presented a concept for an increase in tax levels in all areas: at every level of taxation, an increase from a certain level of inflation. Only: Our coalition partner believes that one should only give something less into the system, and not to those who put a lot into the system. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Is the emphasis on ‘coalition’?]] And we're of the opinion: Someone who earns more, who pays more taxes, must also be relieved more. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if I hear the demand for more redistribution, I must say: We have so much redistribution in Austria that I mean we don't need more redistribution from top to bottom. It's enough. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Lugar and Mr Hagen on his work.]] In recent years, we have seen the phenomenon in the budgets, including in 2015, at the Federal Accounts, and it has become extremely extreme in recent years, that sales tax has increased less strongly than wage tax. This has always been highly criticised. We said: This is also due to cold progression and also to the fact that people have less purchasing power. That is true, that is why we have made the tax reform, and the tax reform also works, you can see! If you look at the figures in the budget 2016 and also those in the budget 2017, you will find: This relationship is reversed. In other words, we have again budgeted more sales tax volumes – already in 2016 this is marked by – and less wage taxes, because the tax reform is saving people a bit and thus having more purchasing power. It is always said that the opposition has to criticise the budget; this has been said by Mrs Glavischnig again today, who always goes away after her speech, just as Mr Strache, because she obviously does not care about the further debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Of course, the opposition must criticise the budget, and Mr Rossmann is already in the opening holes and can hardly expect to criticize it again. If the opposition no longer criticizes the budget, then the opposition has abolished – be honest! – so you can't leave good hair on this budget. Nevertheless, at the end of the day, because it is always so smiled: The black zero – this is an expression used in accounting and in the economy – is gladly criticized and smiled, but, ladies and gentlemen, we achieved a positive result in 2015 in the federal accounts with a structural deficit of 0.3 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar]] But nobody talks about it, for example. Everyone's always just talking about something we couldn't have achieved, we were worse than we had budgeted. True is: We were better in 2015! By the way, each year – 2015, 2014 and 2013 – we were better than budgeted. We will also succeed in 2016 and 2017. We will achieve the structural zero deficit – whether it suits you or not!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e6014	Mr Heinzl is speaking on an actual amendment. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e6038	Madam President. Minister of State on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, in his speech, claimed that ÖBB employees were on average in retirement at 54 years of age and that burdened the budget heavily. [[Abg. Lopatka: 2012, Federal Accounts: 2 billion grant!]] I'm actually correcting: The claim made by Mr Klubobmann Lopatka is actually false and at the same time wrong. [[Abg. Lopatka: What?]] The fact is: The retirement of the Austrian Bundesbahnen was at the last 60 years, and in the field of ÖBB-pensions there was no cost explosion, but in recent years, initiated by the then Minister Bures, massive measures have led to major savings. [[Abg. Lopatka: What?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e6113	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e6134	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is already significant that after the campaign of the chancellor and the vice chancellor, the same thing is leaving this event right now, where the live stream in the ORF, for whatever reason, also ends. - That's just by the way to get started. So there is no more live stream, according to what the two mentioned gentlemen have supplied here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister of Finance Schelling spoke a lot about trust yesterday in his budget speech. He said that it was a policy that deserves the trust of the Austrians, and no doubt he is right. With your policy, Mr Finanzminister – I am sorry to have to express it so harshly now – you have now played out every confidence. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] Especially you, who come from the economy and not from a party apparatus, have received a lot of confidence at the beginning of your term of office as Minister of Finance be. There's nothing else left. And how much your own claim and coalition reality differ, you just made it all too clear with your budget speech yesterday. Yes, Minister of Finance, you have seen the real problems in your speech: massive expenditure problems, lack of structural reforms, rising unemployment, exploding pension costs, increasing public debt, and low interest rates that no longer deserve the name interest. Other countries, such as Germany or Switzerland, are doing so under such omens, surpluses, profits – but not this Austrian Federal Government! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! You know exactly where it is in this country, and then let us have a budget like this: Disbursements of €77.5 billion compared to deposits of €73.2 billion in the financing budget, making a deficit of €4.3 billion or of 5.78 percent, calculated by revenue and not by GDP, as euphemistically always is made. It is even worse to look at the earnings budget, i.e. the business guild, the profit and loss account, of the Republic. There are revenues of € 73.2 billion compared with costs of € 82.1 billion. This is a deficit of almost €9 billion; 12.3 percent of revenue. That's the real numbers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order not to make the whole thing look so cruel, we do not compare these figures with the revenue, as I have done now and as every company in Austria has to do, no, but with GDP, with the gross domestic product; then it is not nearly 6 percent in the financing budget, but only 1.2 percent in the Maastricht deficit. I know, Minister of Finance, that you can't do anything for it, that's an EU-specific approach. But because this is still not good enough, one calculates the one-time effects and the special expenditures, then one has the structural deficit – then we are at 0.5 percent structural deficit, and then everyone is happy. Mr Finanzminister, you yourself have said – I quote – that: “The truth is reasonable to men. I'm even going on: It is our duty to give pure wine to the people.” – Quote by yourself. That is why I ask you – although you are certainly right with this quote – why you do not follow your own words. I now address specifically the calculation of integration and migration costs from the structural deficit. The definition of the structural deficit is ‘a measure adjusted by economic and one-time factors for the public budget deficit’. Everyone in this House knows – and this is what every Austrian and every Austrian knows – that the expenditure for this mass immigration is not a once-and-a-half factor, either. The opposite is the case! [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] The Fiscal Council, Mr Finanzminister, your own advisory body, has published a study on this subject, which speaks a very clear language. I quote literally: ‘Analysis of refugee immigration thus leads to a deficit every year until 2056, financed by an increase in debt (...) The increase in debt includes interest payments up to 2060, amounting to around 23 billion euros or 6.5% of GDP (...) Per refugee received thus amounts to some 277,000 euros over the period 2015 to 2060." I am sorry, Minister of Finance, that is no one-time effect even in the case of all benevolents, if your own advisory body of 45 years speaks – no one-time effect! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is budget trickery, and the burden on local taxpayers is not reduced by a cent. We are also waiting for the announced end of the cold progression in vain. We'll see what's going on up to the next budget. However, I say it quite frankly, Minister of Finance, my hope that the cold progression will still be abolished by this government will be limited, it is very low. Austria just doesn't get out of the spot under this red-black coalition. The economic and budgetary situation is even getting worse. We are waiting in vain for the reforms you have referred to. Administrative reform, structural reform, state reform, pooling of revenue and expenditure management – nothing has happened for years, Minister of Finance! Although OECD and the EU have been criticising the overarching funding for years, the transparency database is a joke because countries refuse to feed their data. Grants for pensions rise between 2015 and 2020, in five years, by a high 30 percent, from 10 to more than 13 billion euros each year. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister! You have raised many points in your speech yesterday, which I can quite agree with. Alone, the beautiful words do not follow actions. You said it right yesterday: It is about facts and not populist statements. The facts, however, speak against you. The government debt at record level, the real budget deficit, Mr. Bundesfinanzminister, is not getting under control. They bring keywords, but they don't bring any reforms. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The difference between your own claim and reality is blatant. This draft budget, Mr Finanzminister, is a figureless picture of the failure.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e6265	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e6286	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Finanzminister, you spoke yesterday very impressively about “old-fashioned trample paths” and asked for “fresh thinking approaches”. – Yes, I have been sitting on it for a long time yesterday and have been thinking about where in the budget these fresh ideas actually come to fruition. I have to say that I have not been found; I'm sorry, Minister! An example: As always, you're talking about having a spending problem. They simply don't want to ask themselves the fact that the facts look quite different. The consolidation packages of 2011, 2012, 2014 have taken hold and resulted in the expenditure ratio falling by one percentage point between 2010 and 2015 and has not increased, Minister! One point you always take out in this context, namely pensions, and there you always call for reforms. You tried yesterday to explain to us in the form of a milk bill why the pension system is in the long run unfinancingable. But please, Minister of Finance, I would like to ask you to take seriously your commissioned studies on the long-term financing of the pension system. You have presented this to us in the long-term forecast here in this House in spring, and it is clear – as in the Ageing Report – that the subsidies to the pension system will rise by about 1.5 percent of GDP by 2050. Yes, if it's called infinancing, I don't know?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, you always take this as an opportunity to demand a pension reform to implement your neoliberal agenda in order not only to enforce cuts in the pension area, but also in the other social systems. [[Abg. Loacker: If he had at least a neoliberal agenda!]] – Mr Loacker, you will come later. Yesterday, you said you wanted to cut the pension grant by a third. – Mr Minister, do you want to generate all serious serious about these average pensions in the country of old age poverty in Austria? I don't want this, quite honestly. That's what I really can do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Where it is about spending on an oversized security package, you have no problems, there is everything, Minister! I'm not ready to take this. [[Abg. Rädler: Professor! Solution approaches, Professor!]] The second point: “Let’s make (...) the debt brake to the engine of a modern state!” – That’s an empty phrase and nothing else. [[Abg. Wheeler: He has none!]] But, of course, it has its background, Mr Minister, because the aim of your proposal – as in the previous year – is to consolidate the budget only this year, if you want to do so, the black zero; Mrs. Tamandel has announced it. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Now I know you don't understand!]] But, Mr Minister, let's talk about the black zero in the area of poverty, let's talk about the black zero in the field of unemployment, let's talk about the major challenges in this country, and do not always pray for what Mr Schäuble and the European Union are praying for with their policy of extremity! [[Federal Minister Schelling:... traumatized!]] – I have no trauma, you have a trauma! Where it is about dealing with the issue of European austerity policy and dealing with the article of Chancellor Kern, which he wrote in the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”, you simply refuse the debate and accuse him of being a left-wing ideology carrier. I can easily blame you now: You're a right ideology carrier. That's what it looks like. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Solutions!]] But targeting, Minister, would be a debate on budgetary policy in this country and in the European Union. It is no coincidence that Christine Lagarde called at the meeting of the Monetary Fund last week of the Community of States: Do something! It meant doing something in the sense of a sustainable growth policy. - But you're not doing anything. If I look at this budget, I have to say, there is unfortunately nothing there, there is not being designed, nothing is done. There will be capitulated before the major challenges. With this consolidation strategy, they abandon the most powerful instrument of economic, social and environmental policy. They follow nothing but the old trample paths. [[Abg. Wheelers: You want to save on safety!]] Take the area of labour market: There's a little more money being made available, but the big investments are not being made. Mr. Chancellor Kern says, and you said yesterday that €800 million more investment in infrastructure is being invested by the federal government. I have considered this table 16 very carefully, Mr Minister, because there are in there: Payments to the BIG Group, renting – aha, renting is already investment, a very interesting aspect – the clinical additional burden. There may be a few investments inside, that's right, but investment has nothing to do with it. And what in it the annuities grants of the ÖBB have lost, you have to explain that to me first. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: Ask what the annuities are about, your colleague Moser!]] If you would like to present us with a table for the debate in the Committee, which is not well-suited, Mr Minister, then we can discuss it on an objective basis. And then we see how much is actually invested in this country. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Where you could invest, Minister, in the field of climate protection, is dead pants at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Yeah, there's dead pants. Expenditure on environmental protection will be reduced once again. I think it's around €19 million, although the potential there is high. Mrs Glawischnig quoted Paul Krugman, and that is actually nothing to add. This can also be done without new debts, Minister. The Economic Research Institute has predicted that there are environmentally harmful subsidies in the range of €3.7 to approximately €4.5 billion. If we invest €1.5 billion annually by 2020 – this is what the Wifo has expected – then we can create 16 000 to 40 000 jobs. We could thus create the turnaround on the labour market, but not with the budget you are presenting to us, Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You say you lowered the additional wage costs. I say: Yes, 1 billion € – ridiculous! [[Abg. Rädler: Nothing for the Chamber of Workers?]] [[Abg. Wöginger: 1 000 million € are these!]] We have already presented a concept of an eco-social tax reform in 1998, which could significantly reduce additional labour costs. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Mr Rupprechter recently called for the next stage of the tax reform to be an eco-social tax reform. Come on, Minister Schelling! One last point: What do you do to close the line between the poor and the rich? - Nothing. They debate the cover of minimum security. However, they do not debate, for example, asset taxes, inheritance taxes in that country, income neutral, and the revenue from these taxes on low incomes and on those who actually need this money to be able to live a life in dignity in that country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To sum up, I mean, that's not a big throw at all. It is a draft which aims essentially at complying with the Maastricht rules without questioning them and discussing them at European level. Unfortunately, the major challenges remain on the track. That's how it looks! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e6522	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e6543	Mr President. High house! Dear Minister! Citizens' values! Today at the NEOS Lab, in our academy, we had a morning event for the 2017 budget, and someone from the audience asked me if we could find something good at the 2017 budget. [[Abg. Wheeler: Earlypensionists!]] This reminded me a little of the final question at the last presidential debate in the USA, when someone also asked whether Clinton and Trump still find something good together. In any case, it is a legitimate question, so I would like to make at least some positive progress. You can say at least positive: Greece, Italy, Portugal is getting worse. In the European comparison, our budget is not quite down in the table, however, orientation on the best of classes is not, so unfortunately you have to quit relatively quickly with the praise. The year 2017 will be 55. Year in a row in which this country has a budget deficit in which it has debt on debt. This fact is masked by the abuse of an originally good concept, i.e. structural balance, which I would say is politically misused. That was a good idea once, when you said: Well, actually, to evaluate a budget, one should calculate economic effects to see if it is structurally sustainable. - A smart idea. What did you do about it? – It is used to prefer that, in reality, the federal finances would be balanced anyway, that a deficit could no longer be said anyway; minus 0.5 percent would be as forecast next year. 0.5 percent are nothing, that always sounds so little if you take it as a percentage, but in reality it is 1.7 billion €. But that's not the truth either. The truth can be found in the earnings budget, in the budget that we have had since the very welcome 2013 budgetary reform, which represents much more realistic and honest the real situation of the budget. This is not the case of minus 0.5 percent or minus 1.7 billion € deficit, in which is the truth, that is, minus 9 billion € for 2017. This is the reality and the reality that one wants to hide. Structurally, we are spending more permanently than we are taking, despite regular tax records. Mr Finanzminister, you say that we have a structural problem, that we need reforms – we can take note of that – but I also hear when I think about the German Chancellor core that there is not necessarily common ground. Federal Chancellor Kern says that we have too little economic growth. The problem would be economic growth if we had more growth, then everything would be fine in the budget anyway. This has completely masked the past years and decades, because we have always made a deficit in years where economic growth has been good, so we have been in a series deficit for 55 years. [[Federal Minister Schelling: You did not listen!]] – Mr Finanzminister, the problem is, you don’t listen either, so you don’t even notice if I’m actually on your side even if I’m actually argumentative! But this is also the problem, you do not listen to yourself in the Federal Government either, so we have experienced these election speeches instead of budget speeches. In this respect, it is also understandable that, apart from announcements, we do not hear that the implementations are de facto null. Even this so-called tax reform is not a reform, it was only a retroactive remuneration of cold progression. [[Abg. Wöger: But it wasn't bad, was it?]] [[Abg. Rossmann: It was very good for the good earners!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] – I would like to answer, unfortunately it’s already flashing red here again, I always have too little time. Mr Finanzminister, that you may not continue structural reforms in this coalition, I can understand that I do not want to blame you either, but what you can personally blame is that you have missed a century chance. They would have had the opportunity to stand in front of the financial abyss through the Hypo Alpe-Adria, not only when Carinthia was in front of the financial abyss, but as well as all other countries in 2009 with 10 billion euros of co-liability – even now some billions are left – to finally demand reforms. You would have had a lever in your hand for that. You wouldn't have needed the SPÖ's consent, you just had to say no once, no to this that this is done in such a way that the creditors are boxed out by the taxpayers that the debts are lost without further Carinthia. You just should have said no. And if the taxpayers were already jumping in, you would have had to demand reforms. You didn't do that. [[Federal Minister Schelling: The bankruptcy was...!]] Why didn't you do it? - Either you didn't want it, and if you wanted it, you couldn't. Apparently your own party in this matter is not behind you either. I ask myself, Minister of Finance: Why do it? You're still looking at this job at all? [[Federal Minister Schelling: Why are you still in Parliament?]] Summary: Your budget speech was more campaigning speech than budget speech. [[Call the Greens: Not even that!]] The same thing has to be said about today's speech by Mr Chancellor Kern. Party politics may make sense for you, but courageous, reform-oriented, forward-looking policy looks different! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e6674	The next speaker is Mr Steinbichler.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e6718	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at the visitor gallery! Dear taxpayers and taxpayers in front of the televisions! That's why I took this board with me, because it's been since the 23rd century. ==References====External links== [[a board on which, under the heading “Losing workers, winning officials” in three blocks, the financial situation of workers, employees and officials is presented, focusing on the speaker’s seat]] Client policy, which will continue with this budget, represents exactly this development, namely the loss of workers and entrepreneurs and the gain of officials. This reduces economic power, particularly in rural areas, in industrial areas. Very briefly to this interesting debate today: It is wonderful, from Elvis Presley through Chancellor Kern to William Shakespeare by Andreas Schieder, many quotations have already been delivered today. Old Shakespeare has probably never suspected that he will play a role in the 2017 budget speech. [[Federal Minister Schelling: He would be happy!]] I think that fits very well, as Klubobmann Schieder said Shakespeare had said: A claim is far from evidence. I think what Shakespeare said also applies to election promises and budget speeches. Mr Minister, if one has heard the speech last year and the one who is here, then one can probably already imagine what it will look like for 2018. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] I don't think that's what you mentioned yesterday. I listened and read with great interest. The courage was raised, and that would, of course, be ideal. Courage means: make, implement, do. I must resist this, as the former Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Androsch described this state of strength of the Federal Government at a lecture in the Oberbank. He said she's insanely strong in neglect and very weak in implementation. I will then quote some points from Chancellor Kern that I actually liked. You should like them, too, because you always talk about implementing them, and that the ministries are no longer being colored, that it no longer means: That's our clientele, that's your clientele, and there we do a little clientele policy and share this cake of Austria. I think that can't be so, but today Mr Vice-Chancellor has done something here, and I have noticed his nervousness yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] He seemed to have criticized, in particular, every individual who is not of his opinion, according to the motto “Hands fold, keep Goschn”, and that is not worthy of a statesman. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It's not in a marriage either, and I think a government is like a marriage. Today, it has been clearly demonstrated which partners are currently very disturbed by this marriage. That's that responsibility. We do not have to paint this Austria, we do not have to supply this Austria to clients, but we have to shape the future of this Austria, and we have done nothing in the basic approaches. No action has been taken just in respect of the promised reforms, which are again and again stressed in each election campaign. You yourself said that a day when no reforms are set, no actions, is a bad day. We are now so far – that must be imagined in this state debt, there are some who say it goes in the right direction, but that can only be those who go downhill – that at €292 billion government debt represents the interest rate advantage in the currently low interest rate policy about €9 billion. Director Gasselsberger of the Oberbank has also said something about this. You said yesterday you wanted the opposition's cooperation. There is a need for a clear distinction between this state and that government. Please, our cooperation will be denied! We had four committees last week, and all the opposition requests were postponed. [[Abg. Rädler: Then they were bad!]] I mean, you should rename this federal government, Mr. Rädler. It would be a very appropriate expression. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] That would have hit the nail on the head. I think the decisive thing is: We need measures. I still quote – I still have the opportunity to talk about the additional wage costs in the chapter Economics – the head of KTM, Stefan Pierer. He's already saying: “I am no longer talking about additional wage costs,” – at almost 50 percent – “but about main wage costs.” What we do not implement in future development, with these €9 billion mentioned, plus the new four and a half billion debt, we take away our anchors for the future in design space. Clearly, we need a policy that is just right. We must be aware that we pay with the checkcard of our children, our grandchildren, and what has been presented here is not good for the future of our anchors. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We need courage, that's the most important thing. You have talked about it, and I can support you that a very essential political account is the trust account. That is why this trust account is so small right now because the citizens have legitimate concerns that this government does not implement enough, that this government is making too little, and, as has been shown today, too much dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e6822	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Schelling is speaking. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e6844	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with a thank you to the Federal Chancellor. He said no one wants new debts, and this example shows that we are aware of what the goal is. What you're trying to figure out is the discussion about the methodology, how we're going to get there. It is, I think, justifiable that we have a very constructive discussion here. I think that many here, as a percentage, have several, obviously something like a selective perception. Everyone finds out what's just favorable for him, and obviously doesn't see the whole thing anymore. The second point is: I say in all openness and said yesterday also in the ZIB 2 interview that this has nothing to do with the assignment of the ministries at all. If someone came from the ÖVP, Minister of Social Affairs, I would make exactly the same criticism. This has nothing to do with it at all, but the reason that we have put it out again is that we have asked: Where are the very big developments and chunks we have to deal with? So this has nothing to do with it. If everyone had listened attentively, it would be clear: There will be no working group on the donation review. We're already putting this into practice in the ministry, in my house. I say: If we want everyone else to apply this methodology to verify their efficiency and effectiveness, then my house must be the first to do so in order to give an example that everyone should follow. Ladies and gentlemen! Another pre-remarking point, so that this is also equally clear, you can also read it all: There has been no criticism at all of investment in infrastructure. My criticism was that we have pre-taxes of €140 billion, and in the future we should deal with these pre-taxes more carefully, so as not to burden the next generation – as is required by all. I have explicitly said that I do not question at all the question of the investment decided so far – the Brenner Base Tunnel has been mentioned. [[Abg. Moser: We just can't finance it!]] In this area too, we obviously have such a problem of selective perception. A final preliminary remark before I go into some details: Mr Rossmann, I regard it as a praise if you call me a Swabian housewife with a beard. But I'd apologize to the Swabian housewives in your place. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the ÖVP and the Abg. Loacker.]] If we were to behave this way – this is your old slogan, by the way, you have blamed Mr Schäuble – like the Swabians and if we behave like the Swabian housewives, then we would certainly not have half of the budget problems. That's why I'm on this... [[Abg. Rossmann: No, I don't share that at all!]] – You don’t have to share it, that’s quite clear. If you accuse me of a ‘neoliberal agenda’, I will hold it out, but it seems that I am less away from neoliberalism than you are from the whole left-wing structure. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the ÖVP and the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One point I would like to mention: Mr Rossmann, you always come with savings policy in Europe. I don't know if you've ever looked at the debt development, but then you might see that with the exception of those countries that have been completely driven into the graves like Greece, basically not one country has gone down debt, but all of them have invested out of the crisis. Therefore: If you really look at this, I'd like to go to a point that comes from you all the time. I say this in general with pensions: It's fun when someone says that in 2050 it's only 1.5 percent more. Would you not like to invest this 1.5 percent in research, development and education? [[Abg. Rossmann: Are these the only...?]] You have to ask this question. You're a waived computer, Professor Rossmann! – Yes, of course, in the remarks he is very professorial, I have no problems with it. [[Call at the FPÖ:Professor?- Oh, my God!]] If you really do this and do a high-end calculation, as the GDP is forecast after today's assumption, which may be completely wrong by 2050, then you can calculate the sum we need in addition. I am also saying – and that is what I meant, and you have also criticized this – that I have said that we can reduce these grants; not cut them down, but reduce them. Let me give you the following example: We made an official pension reform that was difficult. The consequence of this official pension reform is that in the years 2015 to 2020 only 15 percent more are needed for official pensions, but there, where we have not made reforms, 30 percent more are needed. That must be an approach that we say: Let's take a look at this! What can we do without intervening in existing structures? You mentioned the actual retirement age. [[Abg. Rossmann: I didn't do that!]] - No, I'm already away from you, it doesn't turn the whole answer around you. To the actual retirement age: We do not make progress quickly enough if we look at the statistical calculation relating to rehabilitators. Let's take a look at individual points! – Mr Klubobmann, you can then make a correction, I have no problem with it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: I can also make an intermediate call!]] I may point out a few points: It is, of course, easy to make up here and say that the budget and the finance ministers are all to blame. I would also like to take this up, but look at our legal situation, the Federal Ministry Act! Look You can see exactly what kind of intervention a Minister of Finance actually has in the budget of the individual departments! Take a look at why some solutions arise as they arise! A second point: I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under budgetary law, I cannot make budgets without a legal basis. If there is no legal basis, I cannot budget that either. – You can now discuss whether this is right. To the climate: If you listened attentively, you know I said: If the climate strategy exists, this will be realized in the federal financial framework. [[Abg. Brunner: That's too late! You should know that...!]] It's not too late. We always discuss this in the Committee, and you always make me responsible for the climate strategy. I think that's actually a very exciting story. [[Abg. Brunner: No!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] As to the question of the calculation of refugees, you are perfectly right that we should take account of a longer-term development. However, I can only calculate it for 2016 and 2017, then it is over and not in the structural deficit we are currently presenting to you. The question that arises from this is also: How do we actually put together these total costs for the calculation? – They consist of basic provision, asylum procedures, border management, integration by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, local assistance by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, additional security costs for national defence and active labour market policies that we need. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That is why we cannot compare the current situation with what it was a year ago, because at that time these measures, such as the assistance we are funding, did not exist at all. A question raised in the context of the budget creation is one that I would like to make clear once again: We are currently financing this Republic in such a way that we conclude long-term financing contracts. Depending on the half-life of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Finance, I would think that the financial statements we are now doing will still benefit about the seventh Minister of Finance or the seventh Minister of Finance after me from our contracts with low interest rates, just as we still have a disadvantage from the contracts that come from earlier years. I think we are also on the safe side of the issue of interest rate development when we go on this path. The financial compensation was addressed: What can I budget in the financial balance without a legal basis? – At present nothing, and I will keep you informed of what the results will look like. Don't worry, there will be this result then! To the cold progression: Yes, my proposal is on the table. Mr Klubobmann Strolz meant that we must have this in the next budget. We have now made arrangements for the tax reform so that the cold progression is paid off. Now on the question: Let's go down, let's get on the right path? . I would like to quote from the budget once again: We have less disbursements by €827 million and less debt by €2.2 billion than we had committed to the federal financial framework which this House has decided. That's why I think we can say right and right, that we're on the right track. If you want to hear what I said yesterday: We should not only continue this path, but we should speed it up, then we will also come so far that we can create room to invest in the future. Finally, because Mr Klubobmann Lugar and Mr Hable spoke about the HETA: I was quite horrified yesterday that after a year and a half of investigation committee, nobody was actually willing to listen to the debate on the Committee's report. I think the work paid off. But if, as yesterday, both Hable and Kogler in an interview call my announcement of a financial market reform a distraction maneuver, then I don't know if the work really paid off, because that was the argument in the investigation committee: Supervision has not worked a hundred percent, and that is why we need to change something there. Now let's do this. This is actually symbolic of the political concept: Something that is not yet on the table is criticized. It was demanded before, and when it comes, it is said: We don't need it all, we don't want it all! A theme that God will no longer burden us in the future is the topic of the HETA solution. I would like to discuss with those who continue to believe that the better solution would have been to destroy the HETA and Carinthia and thus bring Austria into a situation where we would have had much greater budgetary problems than now. I think we should note that this budget represents what was feasible. The individual questions must be resolved in the Committees on the chapters, and all questions will certainly be answered sufficiently. I am therefore saying: If we really are serious about what has been said here today, I do not see a dispute about the objectives where we want to bring this country, but I see only a discourse about what measures we are going to achieve these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7017	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7039	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Thank you, Minister of State! Appreciate High House! Mr Federal Minister, I listened very closely to you yesterday and wrote along certain statements that came from you outside this budget. That is why I would not like to quote Mr Shakespeare or Mr Presley, but Mr Schelling. Mr Schelling has said in an interlocutory that he is asking himself where he deserves, where he saves and where he is investing. It is important to take this into account when creating the budget. The Federal Minister has very determined and proudly pointed out that it is important and right to provide additional funds for the field of internal and external security in 2017. We also say that it is also right to ensure security in terms of police and national defence. In addition to internal and external security, however, there is still a safety chapter in which I have missed this determination and this conviction a little bit. It's about the Social Chapter. We also have a responsibility to talk about measures to ensure social security in this country and can be found in the 2017 budget. If we look at the relevant chapters in the field of work, social security, consumer protection and pension insurance, we can also be a little proud that we say: Yes, we are taking more money in some areas because it is important for us to take action on the labour market! There are people in this country who have little chance of a job, there are very special groups, for example those over 50 years old, there are people who are long-term unemployed, there are asylum and protection seekers. For these people we want to use more resources and more staff at the AMS. In the first half of the year, the AMS has brought almost 400,000 people back into employment in Austria, and this is a good success. Finally, this also means that we have record employment in this country, which we mention far too little. In the area of pensions, I actually thought that through all these measures that we have taken since 2009, through which we have for years been undercutting the budgetary approaches regarding pensions, the path is clearly defined. I was also confident that the pension summit in February of this year agreed on the next steps we will take in the field of pensions in the future. That is why I do not think it is right for us to reinvigorate the subject of pensions here in every debate within the coalition. We have agreed on how to deal with pensions in the next few years, how the rules are – and if we already have an over-fulfilment of our budget targets on pensions due to record employment, then the people, the pensioners, the hundreds whom we have proposed, have also deserved themselves. There's a sign! It is equally important – this commitment is there, and we will implement it – that the compensation allowance for people who have worked for at least 30 years in that country is raised to € 1,000. So there is €117 more to bring them to € 1,000. [[Abg. Schwentner: But more people, more!]] I think these are important measures that we should stand by, and we should not constantly use the topic of pensions to dissuade everything and put it all as unfinancing. If we already do a cost-benefit account, which I think is useful, then let us see what the pensioners leave to value added in our country. This is an economic factor which is always underestimated and not mentioned accordingly. In conclusion: We are, of course, in the Social Chapter – as in the other chapters – on this budget. It is really about finding social security again in this budget, and that is what we are doing, and it is about social security being an important guarantee of social peace in this country, which we can all be quite proud of. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7075	The next item is Mr Wöginger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7097	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors! We're on the right track with this budget, and I'll explain to you why. The deficit decreases from 1.4% to 1.2%, and is expected to be 0.4% in 2020. The debt ratio is falling from 83 to 81 percent, but at this point I would also like to point out that, especially in the last two years, the hypo debacle from Carinthia has also been shown, which has caused us this high debt ratio, and we are overall reaching the requirements set by the European Union. The gap between expenditure and revenue is going together – and that must be so, because it is completely incomprehensible that you spend more and more than you take. We are also going up in the rankings: in the ranking of the EU Commission from place 11 to 10; in the ranking of the World Economic Forum – the Vice-Chancellor has also mentioned it – from place 23 to place 19. This is in principle gratifying, but we are not where we belong. In addition, it is said that no reforms have been made, a comment: We have implemented a tax reform of €5 billion, ladies and gentlemen, and I don't understand what you think is bad at all! We have burdened people, workers, taxpayers and taxpayers, we have reduced these people to €5 billion, and this strengthens the purchasing power in this country. This is also clearly a correct measure in the budget. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In order to secure the location and thus also the jobs, we have also agreed on an additional wage reduction of € 1 billion, which will be implemented in 2017 and 2018. This was not easy, because it is also necessary to shorten service providers' contributions somewhere and yet we must maintain our social standard. That is why I would ask you to recognise this measure as well. It is important to us that the site is and remains protected, and that's why we also pictured this additional wage reduction with 1 billion € in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the social budget chapter, and this graph shows that in this country we spend over 51 per cent on work, social affairs, pension insurance, health and family, but in some speakers here you have the impression that we live somewhere in Central Africa, because everything is so terrible. [[Keeping the expression of a pie chart with the heading “Budge 2017 at a glance” in height]] [[Abg. Kickl: Well, well!]] I am proud of the achievements we have in this country. We have one of the highest social standards in the world, and this is an achievement of the last decades and therefore also of those 30 years since the ÖVP has co-regulated. Yeah, we're proud of it! We have done a lot in this country, I would like to stress this, also in the context of this debate on the budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The challenge we face is that we are making these systems sustainable for the future, that we can also secure them for the coming generations. A word on the pension area, because the Federal Chancellor said that: Yes, this is going down a little bit, but of course this will increase to more than €13 billion in the next few years, which will reach the federal grant; this year it will be €10.7 billion. You just have to keep an eye on that, that's what it's all about. Nothing else has been mentioned by the Minister for Finance. We do not intervene in existing pensions, but we want the people now working to receive a pension. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] That's our credo. Now to the ÖBB, ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Heinzl has tried to correct himself: So either the Court of Auditors report is not right or you have not told us the truth here – at least not the whole truth! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] In the fourth quarter of 2015, 133 employees of the ÖBB retired, 80 of them from the situation of an infirmary and only 15 due to their age. So now you have to ask... – Yes, old age pension! [[Abg. Heinzl:... Old age pension!]] At the ÖBB it is so that after a year you are sent to the pension. The employees can't do anything for it, they'll be sent! You should work to ensure that these employees are not necessarily sent home, because there are many who want to continue working. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutors Heinzl and Königsberger-Ludwig.]] That is why we are dealing with this matter. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig:... Social speakers of the ÖVP!]] It is simply unfair if we have these different systems in this area. Do you know what's important to me? – I have to explain to every worker and to every employee that he has to work at least up to 62, and they don’t understand why the railwayman with 54 and the one who is a municipal servant in Vienna retires at 53 years. People in this country don't understand that. - That's your job! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutors Heinzl and Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Finally, a point on minimum security [[Abg. Heinzl:... Political board!]] [[Call to the ÖVP:... Privileges!]] We have presented our proposals, and we are concerned that there is a clear difference between income from work and what we make available to social benefits. It must pay off when someone goes to work, ladies and gentlemen! We can't pay the social benefit overcrowdingly high; that's the reason. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] The proposals are on the table, they only have to be adopted.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7278	Next speaker: Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7299	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It is true, Mr Wöginger, that the people do not understand a lot – you have also raised a number of points in which I can share your criticism – but it does not understand why, in the meantime, this whole area of budgetary policy is now being overlaid by a totally irresponsible welcome policy, in general, a welcome policy for debt, new debt and even more debt, and then, in particular, when it comes to individual areas in these budget chapters, which you have, interestingly, made such a bow today. [[Abg. Rädler: (in the direction of SPÖ) Over there! The Greens and the SPÖ!]] [[making a corresponding hand motion]] You have talked about everything and everyone that is burdening the budget, only on the question of the refugee movement, this mass immigration of economic refugees under the cover of asylum, and I have not heard a word from you and you today. [[towards SPÖ]] [[towards ÖVP]] Why don't you surprise me, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Debts, debts, new debts! – One has to go back to the era Kennedy, who was then president in the United States when there were black figures in the budget last time in Austria. And then Mr. Lopatka comes here and says it's the right men in the right place at the right time?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Lopatka: Exactly!]] I think if you look at the black finance ministers' ancestral gallery, you'll find the black zeros you're looking for so in vain. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And for the sake of justice, I would like to add: There are also a few red zeros to find there, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] On social policy: It can be summarized in such a way that you say: In this area, as much money as never before is invested, and yet there is a valley ride that takes on ever worse dimensions and you can't stop. That's the truth! I only mention mass unemployment: It has never been as bad as now since the Second World War, although you are putting so much money in. I mention only the social systems that are in cracks; a condition in the field of minimum assurance that this system is simply and decisively non-financing in this way. – Beautiful greetings from the red Vienna!, I can only say there. And I also mention rising poverty, increasing poverty, especially among more and more pensioners in this country. They have nothing to do with your statistical prosperity, but they are people who have to live at the bottom of the social scale. That is the thanks and the recognition of a state which they have raised, which they have rebuilt and which they have helped to gain prosperity. Thus, the policy of Red and Black is thanks to the pensioners in this country. This is a scandal for a country whose representatives repeatedly claim that Austria is one of the richest countries. That's not how it is, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are people – because they like to talk about ages in dignity – who at the end of their life must live at the lower end of the social scale, who receive equal or equally little for the benefits they have provided for this country, like others who have not yet provided a single day of service to that country, who have never paid a cent here and who in many cases still refuse to do so, of course, even some form of integration. This is the state we are dealing with in this country, and from our point of view that is unfair and unsustainable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With this I am at SPÖ with its seniors, with the one-time payment, for which one knocks on the chest and praises it as a great social policy achievement. [[Abg. Loacker: You're against it, aren't you?]] I need to help you a little bit on the jumps to reactivate your memory. Your Mr. Kalina of the SPÖ has said that one-time payments would drive pensioners into poverty – yes, Mr. Kalina! – your Mrs Csörgits has said that one-off payments would not have a lasting effect, and your Mrs Bures, who in the meantime has become President here in the House, has said that one-time payments have been puffed after a year – they are gone. Yeah, that's the way it is! That is why you should not knock on the chest for this one-off payment if you put on the other side the weaning pants and distribute the money to people who simply and grippingly didn't deserve it in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! That's a rupture that you finally have to take up! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: So you're voting against the hundred?]] I listened closely to the Minister for Finance yesterday. He said we have to ask ourselves the question: “What tasks is the state to fulfil?” – This is an important criterion in the design of a budget, I can only sign it. I would also have to make a suggestion here, which I am unfortunately missing from you: How would it be if, first and foremost, the Austrian state fulfils the task of caring for its Austrian citizens on the labour market, pensions and the social system? – That would then be a red and white-red policy I heard today that it is necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have not heard anything from you in the budget debate at all. I don't know where the high edge is. Where's the high edge? Where is the savings of the Republic that makes it possible for you to pour out the filling horn here? Where's all this? - I only see a mountain of debt! And in the “speed” – under quotation marks – with which you approach the black zero – and I am not talking about a debt at all – what the greens want will happen before: At the pace at which this progress is being made, due to the continental shift, a land bridge between Europe and Africa will have formed before we have dismantled this debt mountain, ladies and gentlemen. - Yes, yes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Now I'll tell you what else you're doing. You are doing something completely insidious, I would say, because you are constantly moving forward these negative developments. [[Abg. Lopatka: Go!]] They allow and fuel these negative developments. Open labour market: You don't defend yourself, you let all of this happen. Yesterday I heard that the Russian sanctions were also a negative factor: You don't defend yourself, you let all of this happen. The banking, the euro crisis, also one of these factors: You don't defend yourself, you go anywhere! [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] And finally, the question of mass immigration: You do not defend yourself, but you simply drive this game and move on under a different name. And then go. You come here and make yourself a victim of these developments that you are making your own progress. This is the new way of explaining. It's got to keep you from having debts now. This is an inadmissible crime-offering conversion, Mr Finanzminister, who tried to bring you here yesterday to the population! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: Learn economics!]] Finally, because the club of friends Shakespeare is getting bigger and bigger, I also brought a quote from Shakespeare. You can now choose who from the SPÖ the role of Cassius and who takes over that of the Brutus. The quote is anyway – Cassius speaks to Brutus –: “Not because of the guilt of the stars, dear Brutus, because of our own guilt only we are weak.” – That’s exactly how it is, ladies and gentlemen, dear!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7509	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7530	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear spectators! Now I want to get down a little bit and get away from the 5-minute vocabulary of fear and panic, maybe we'll talk a little more constructive about the budget and the challenges ahead of us. [[Congratulations on the Greens and on Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Loacker]] [[Call:My God]] [[Call:To go]] It has been yesterday's speech of the pension budget, of the pensions that have been heavily burdened by the social budget. I would like to clear with the picture that we just need to be afraid – and you too, Mr Minister, are taking part in drawing this picture. I would like to underline that we are still living in one of the richest countries in the world. We still live in a country with high social security, and pensions are part of it. But now we are facing a huge challenge: that – yes, indeed – a lot of people are starting to retire, that is, if you look at the next 30 years, a million more people. A million people will be over 65 years old in 30 years of age and will retire. This is one of the major challenges we must face together. The question is how we are dealing with this now and how we are dealing with this big question without spreading panic and fear, as it is very much about it, and also without using unfair examples, as you, Mr Financier – I would like to speak here already – did yesterday in your speech, as I mean. [[towards FPÖ]] If you say 1971 a person was an average of eight years in pension and now it is 22 years, then it is so – and you emphasized yesterday in your speech that you are an entrepreneur and also speak as an entrepreneur and finance minister – that I am now about 360 new apples, which corresponds to the billions in GDP, to 130 old pears – you compare them to 45-year-old pears – and this is what I am making to make serious policy. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] - Yes, we have a problem now. We have a problem because you compare new apples with old pears. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Now we have a pension expert at the speaker's desk! Learn Economics!]] No, you have a problem! [[Abg. Wheelers: The Greens have a problem!]] Calculate what you put to us about old and new pensions in the room! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: So the must that is being done there is just for drinking!]] We face two challenges, and these are actually two reasons for joy, namely that people are getting older and people are longer in work and much more contributing to the productivity of the country. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] In this respect, this is not an unsavory example, but a real example: They compare new apples with old pears, which are 45 years old, and I think that is unfair. [[Abg. Lopatka: Read the statistics!]] I can also give a different example. You're a businessman, you've had a furniture house. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] It is not crucial how many people come to your furniture house and buy tea lights, but it is crucial that these few people buy a lot. And about this is the case now: that those who pay contributions for pensions in the future contribute more than the many before. So don't charge us with wrong numbers! [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Schelling.]] I would also like to speak again to Mr Lopatka and the panic that comes from the right. Mr Lopatka is kind of like Nikolaus and Krampus in one. On the one hand, they say: No, no, we don't intervene in existing pensions! – that's not possible, you can't intervene in existing pensions; that is, you play the cramp – and then say at the same time: Oh, I'm the Nikolo, we give you... [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes, yes! That's what we're doing at the special pensions!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: We did this at the special pensions!]] – This can only be done to a certain extent with special pensions that were immaculate and unfairly high, but you can't intervene in the normal existing pensions, so don't tell people wrong things! [[Abg. Lopatka: So you don't think we should intervene? All right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Tell people what you really want! [[Abg. Wheeler: Are you a workwoman?]] Either you want to cut future pensions massively or you want us to invest in the financial market in the future and play casino. What exactly do you want? – We all want people to stay in employment for longer, for people to work longer, and we want to allow them to do so. [[Abg. Lopatka: We want to bring the age of entry slowly to the legal one!]] We want people to work longer, so we have to do everything we can. I would now like to say one more thing to the hundreds of SPÖs: This is a pension drop on the hot stone. If you pay a hundred, it's nice and good, but there's a lot of trade unionists among you, including colleague Muchich, who used to talk to the hundreds, and for trade unionists, one-time payments are not what you want as a trade unionist or trade unionist. It's a drop on the hot stone, the one on the 31st. ==References== That's why I'm asking you: Let's think together about a really fair pension system! We have presented a model of which we believe that the same contributions, the same benefits for all should come out. It is a serious model, look at that, and make sure that the people who are poor in old age actually get more out! This is about the compensation recipients, about the minimum pensioners, and we have to take care of them. Look at that, and don't mix apples with pears! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7750	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7771	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! I believe that if Klubobmann Lopatka is called Nikolaus, at least this is quite common to Nikolaus Alm and Nikolaus Scherak. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS.]] But after the green social policy flowers, let us return to the figures: Pensions amount to a total of € 20 out of € 77 billion. More than every fourth budget euro flows into pensions, and that's too much! And if Mr Rossmann would like to invest, consider the following: If we don't have such a big pension hole, there would be a lot of space and a lot of money for investment, but you'd rather break it in uncovered pension payments. Unfortunately, the Feng Shui minister is not there, he always turns the numbers in the social budget until they look so beautiful that he likes it. What he did well is that he took over the dog-tore tricks one by one, namely: If you take the budget approaches high enough in advance, you also have a good chance to land below them in order to say: Yes, we have used less anyway, there is enough left, we can spend a hundred more – and I don't know what it is! And in fact, if in 2017 the pension grant should be lower than in 2016, this has one reason: the dirty bank-austria-pension deal you completed in early this year, after which the €730 million will only flow. If you compare actual 2016 expenditure with actual 2017 expenditure, you will definitely be making an increase. But there are even more tricks on how to calculate the pension budget, with unemployment insurance. Employment is high, we have already heard this today, and through high employment there are fine contributions. At the same time, unemployment increases, and as a result, €1.5 billion from unemployment insurance goes into pension insurance – these are so-called partial insured persons. That is, with funds from unemployment insurance, you stop the pension hole and charge it artificially small. Another factor remains to be seen, namely that pensioners have nothing to do with this huge pension hole. If no pension reform takes place, no sustainability factor will be installed if the retirement age is not adapted to life expectancy, then you will produce poverty because the system will always produce lower replacement rates, because people will get less and less of their last relationship than pension. Only longer working allows pensions to meet the needs of older people in a reasonable way. Mr Finanzminister, you want to reduce pension expenditure, which is very commendable. At the February pension summit this unfortunately looked rather ridiculous, the opposite is the case: With higher compensatory allowances, we will produce even higher expenditure. A little bit of compassion is already aroused, because of course you do not have it easily in your own party either: When it comes to the approximation of the age of women's pensions to that of men, your party is not involved; when it comes to pension automation, your party is not involved – as if the coalition partner would not be difficult enough. I would also like to say something to this dizzy hundred who are being put into play by the Reds: If you want to do something just, take it You are the hundreds to repay debts, because now you want to give the hundreds of those who have retired at particularly favourable conditions, and those who will retire in 20 years at much worse conditions, who are allowed to finance the hundreds. That's not fair! We also have more and more unemployed people, and we have more and more long-term unemployed people – and in the meantime the number of emergency workers is running away. We have 45 percent more emergency workers than unemployed people. It must be asked whether it is right that emergency aid should be granted indefinitely, or whether it would not be better to bring the emergency aid and minimum security systems together. Once a person has received two years of unemployment benefit and emergency aid, he is a member of the minimum insurance scheme, a social security scheme. These are points, Mr Minister, not only must we look at them, but they must also be implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7832	Next speaker is Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7856	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Bundeskanzler Kern spoke about the paint must test. If one were to make a paint must test in the labour market, the strip would shine deep red, deep red like a traffic light stop. What the Federal Government has done in recent years was not an improvement, it was not a contribution to boosting the labour market, but it was a contribution to raising unemployment. Mr Federal Minister for Finance, you yourself have said that more and more money is being pumped into this system and the output is getting worse and worse. That is to say, more and more money, more and more administration of the unemployed. [[Abg. Riedler: Thank you Stäger!]] – Mr Rädler, not only is the Minister of Social Affairs responsible, but the Minister of Economic Affairs is also responsible for this! He has a major responsibility for the fact that the site of Austria has been "scanned", as the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl, said. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One makes it too easy as an ÖVP when one says that the administration does not function. This is the result of your missing economic policy, which is the result of the missing tax policy, because: Only the economy creates jobs, and the economy has been tied up and disabled by this government. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Krainer said that the US made it easier, they simply pumped in money: We don't need to look at America. Let's look at Germany: Germany has the lowest unemployment rate for 35 years – for 35 years! Austria has the highest since the 1950s! That's what I'm really asking you: What's it all about? – It is not up to the diligent workers. It's not up to the skilled entrepreneurs. It is in line with the conditions of the economy in that country. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] In this direction, the WEF ranking also shows. With regard to tax incentives, from 138 states we are in 120th place, so we do not provide incentives for entrepreneurs to actually invest. For the duration of operations, we are in place 105, totally behind in the ranking, and that as a modern state that we always call ourselves. Or: tax incentives. I think this is important to Mr Wöginger because he always says there are no incentives to work. [[Abg. Steinbichler: He hasn't moved for 20 years!]] But when it comes to creating fiscal framework conditions that create incentives to work, we are saying and writing in place 133 of 138 – together with Senegal and Uganda. Ladies and gentlemen, if the alarm bells don't ring, I don't know when. The next point is the pension system: Yes, pensions must be guaranteed, pensions must be safe, and we have a gap in financing, there is nothing to discuss away. What we also have, however, is an extremely unfair system. We have a multi-class system that ensures that at the end of the day different high pensions come out depending on where you are employed, whether you are an official, or perhaps you are lucky to have landed in the National Bank. We advocate a fair system, a fair system that treats every Austrian and every Austrian alike. It can't be in times like this that the ASVGlers have had the pension account since 2014, while the officials still have it. We must look at people being fair and equal. This inequality in treatment, which is the substance that causes society to divide. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We want – and this is very important to us – the abolition of privileges. We want privileges not to continue to be gilded, what happens to this percentage increase, because if I give the person who has 10 000 € the same percentage as the one who has 1 000 €, then the gap continues to disperse. From our point of view, the highest pension should be up to four times the lowest pension. We do not want there to be privileges that have never been paid for and that will then be gilded even more by the percentage increase at the end of the day. We only want a percentage increase to the maximum limits of the ASVG, because for that, all pensioners in the lower range have some of it. And then we don't need these hundred people, who can only be seen as an election gift anyway. We want a fair system that serves many and not just a few.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7930	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e7951	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers on the galleries and in front of the TV screens! I will now come to the next area to be discussed here in the context of the budget debate, namely the internal section. We have a total budget of € 77.5 billion, of which 12.6 percent go to the area of law and home affairs. What does that mean? – It has been mentioned many times today: €2 billion for refugees, asylum and integration – yes, that is true – and €884 million for the Ministry of the Interior for basic care, € 138 million for asylum procedures and €69 million for border management. This means, however, that the Ministry of the Interior has received €440 million in this budget and received a total of €3.47 billion. If I have a brief replication on the FPÖ: Austria has and has had a great challenge to deal with the extraordinary refugee movement, which no one has chosen. [[Abg. Höbart: “Refuge movement”!]] We didn't choose that! [[Abg. Bösch: Indebted yourself! By an incompetent government!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] But a high goal must be – and for this I stand as a Social Democratic –: It is necessary to ensure an orderly course in the field of tourism, to ensure that the rule of law is respected and, above all, to comply with the basic human rights values. That is what we stand for as social democrats and social democrats! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They have already officially responded to the Paris terrorist attacks in 2015 and added € 72 million a year as a security offensive. New border police and 500 new employees for the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum have also been added. But it is not done with the recording alone, the people belong trained so that proper and correct procedures are ensured. The police presence – and this has prompted the Minister of the Interior to do so – has been increased at neural points such as railway stations, airports and heavily frequented public places. This is an important aspect. This increased performance not only requires more staff, this increased performance also requires better equipment for the police. That is why I am very glad that our Federal Chancellor at the GÖD Congress has said for the first time, but also today in the budget debate, that there will be additional 1 258 planning points in this area. I think that this is a good and important decision, because dealing with the growing tasks that I have now tried to describe in the first place, the ever-increasing challenges cannot work with consistent resources. This is taken into account by a number of additional executives, judicial officials and colleagues at the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. You can write one in the main book: Internal security and social security, which is the basis for social peace, but also the basis for a good and healthy economy, and we simply do not let that go bad. One thing I would like to say to you: The police still need to be organized to ensure that there are enough people for basic training E2a, who can still do it, because it will be of no use to us if we have the police and not commanders. And the second story is that for the E2b training there must also be enough teachers, the corresponding premises and all the necessary resources, because otherwise, the delta between the number of retirements and the number of new shots goes further apart. I would therefore ask the Minister of the Interior to take this into account in future discussions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8020	The next speaker was Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8041	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Politics, it says, is the art of the possible. [[Abg. Steinbichler: But there are also artists who can't do much!]] [[Abg. Strache: Freedom of Art!]] In this sense, the Minister of Finance has really done the humane thing here, in order to present to you today, under the not very simple framework conditions – and this is what I think is noticed in the presentation – a truly good budget which meets European standards, but which, as a whole, also meets those requirements that we consider necessary: consistent debt reduction, discharge where it is necessary – of course, we would want to have a lot more space to go up there – and a budget that is also smart in terms of sustainable investment. I would like to begin by congratulating you on this, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Lueger has already transferred to the field of internal security, I would also like to concentrate on this, but would like to see it a little broader, just as you have mentioned that, as you have said, internal security and social security are ultimately the guarantee of social peace. Of course, we must be very careful about this, because we are currently having a difficult debate on the issue of minimum security. I had another discussion in the House this morning with ladies and gentlemen from my constituency, and I tell you, people don't understand that someone who has worked for this country all his life is getting the same thing out as someone who has just received asylum status and has a minimum degree of security. This is not accepted! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That's what we've been telling you for years! For years! That's no surprise! Late knowledge!]] - Don't be so excited! You're, I think you're worded anyway, so you'll be happy to replicate it. People do not understand this and do not consider it fair – and this, Mrs Lueger, is, in my view, a real explosive for the social peace you rightly call for. Getting Now They say: Well, for God's sake, then we do a lot more there, then, as it were, a more inequality is created. – I would like to hold you against this, because it is enough to look a little over the border, to the Federal Republic of Germany, which is asking for a budget surplus of €17 billion this year, I believe, and there is the level of minimum security half of that in Austria; and I do not think that the Federal Republic of Germany can be referred to as a non-social country. So we get social peace when we establish a relationship that is also accepted by the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A colleague from the Greens has mentioned and criticised the fact that we are in favour of a cover in the event of a cumulation of social benefits. And I'll tell you: Yes, we are in favour of this cover when there is a cumulation of social benefits, because on the other hand there is no collective agreement, which takes into account, for example, how many children have a single earner or a single earner; therefore, I tell you, this lid is also necessary and correct and important in the case of a cumulation of social benefits, as we have proposed. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. New builder.]] In the field of internal security, the tasks are very, very diverse. You have quite correctly explained the numbering work, Mrs Lueger, we are investing a lot in it, both in the field of national defence – that is what my colleague will go into – as well as in the field of internal security. And we do it in time – I want to say that too. It's a fact: We live in the fourth safest country in the world. We have now prepared all the measures necessary to ensure that border protection can be properly increased if necessary. We are still lacking the special regulation, but we will be able to do so, and then, I am convinced, we can also live in one of the safest countries in the world in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8125	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8147	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! In advance – apart from the assurance that I will not bother you in any way with “beat after Shakespeare” – on the issue of election fight rhetoric: So I think that is not the case because in Waidhofen on the Ybbs, the hometown of our revered Minister of the Interior – which I would have liked to see in this debate today, insofar as it concerns its place of business, here – a preferred municipal council election takes place. You have to tell us what campaign you're talking about. Waidhofen on the Ybbs, however, also has a certain meaning. On the second question – and I would like to see this in retrospect of the social debate that was held earlier, including on the question of job creation: We have just heard a recent example from the labour market service Waidhofen on the Thaya. There a jobless woman was offered to work as a cleaning woman in the nearby asylum home, and she thinks she is cleaning, while the asylum seekers are there in their beds and playing with the mobile phone. – If this is the creation of jobs, I understand your immigration policy as a whole. But this is clearly rejected by us – as you will easily see. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Such a thing cannot happen in a state like Austria! We will provide the facts accordingly. On the situation of security, crime, first half of 2016: Increasing the rate of crime, Austria 6.6 percent, in my hometown of Krems 27 percent, in St. Pölten 28 percent, in Linz 33 percent and in the districts of Vienna, there are different double-digit percentages to increase the rate of crime there. And that's where we need to be counter-controlled. Illegal immigration: In the first half of 2016, 130 000 persons illegally located in Austria were attacked by the security authorities. But what happened? – In the first half of the year, there were 5 163 foreign transfers, all of which are counted together, i.e. Dublin deportations, voluntary return et cetera. In reality, this is the evidence of poverty of this federal government in the fight against illegal immigration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If someone is here in the country, he will stay there and then he will have the opportunity to either be socially supported or become criminal; these are the two possibilities he has. Or – you suggest this way – we do the integration and provide them with cheap Austrian jobs, as part of the industry demands. However, these are front-end objectives, which are not about the Austrian labour market, but only about cheap labour, which Austrian workers are supposed to ban. And there we are quite one with the Austrian trade unionists who see these developments quite the same way. What's going on? – Mr Sobotka has just said in the course of his remarks: There are asylum seekers in Austria who lie to the asylum authorities! [[Abg. That's what I'm talking about.]] They're not telling the truth! . Yes, ladies and gentlemen, quotes of exactly what the Minister of the Interior has made, you can find dozens of speakers from the last few years in free speech. [[Abg. It's a lot of new!]] At that time, however, the calls came: Hit!, right populism!, right-wing extremism! – Now exactly these statements, these analyses and distractions have found entrance into the rhetoric of the Austrian Interior Minister. [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's worrying, yes!]] Mr Steinhauser meant that it was worrying, but you can see how the steady drop hollows the stone. It will only be necessary that there is also a freedom of the interior minister, who will then implement these words, which have been spoken, in action. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In order to have a Minister for the Interior of Freedom, one thing will be necessary: a President of the Federal Republic of Germany, who, according to democratic practices, will also commend freedom ministers – and not one who says from the outset, I do not accept election results and majority voting. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] ==References== It will therefore be necessary to give him the vote on December. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Well, paper is absolutely patient. In a health system you need not only numbers, but there you need doctors, caregivers and other medical staff. In the education system, teachers are needed. In the defense of the country, not only do you need planning places on the paper, but you need soldiers. And it's the same with the police: You need cops who have to be well trained and equipped. In October 2015, Minister of the Interior Mikl- Leitner – some of them can even remember her – announced: Two thousand police officers and 500 asylum officers more next year. In January 2016 it was said that there will be 1,500 police, of which 700 for retirements. ==References== On February 1 500 new police officers, 750 for the border police and 750 for the other police service, were to be heard from the Director-General for Public Security Kogler. – But we only have 1 000 police in training at the moment! It is alleged that 700 are to be used for the executive and 300 for the border police. There are 28 000 planning sites in 2016 and more for this year 650. 600 planning points for 750 to 800 retirements, which means a concrete man's need of 1,350 to 1,400 police officers. 1 000 are in training. I do not want to go ahead with the debate on education, but we are already on the question of basic accounting: It just doesn't go out! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] Everything you write on the paper: It's not about the facts! We can therefore imagine – and it is urgently necessary – that there is something fundamental to change in the training of the police. We need additional training places, so that at least sometime these police posts are occupied – not only on paper, but with real, committed police officers, who also need to get a new job. In the past, for example, there was also the police's teaching profession. Many police officers who serve today have completed this teaching. There you have to get started and give young people a perspective now, so get into the state service. That would be necessary! You also have to make a distinction between the police there. There are those who have to fight terror – we know the pictures: fully equipped with helmets, with shot-proof West – who really do a very, very hard job, up to police who may be able to deal with the radar gun better, or others who may only have to do the sectoral beggar ban. There are also differences in the safety risk. There are even police officers who have to be used to protect a Vienna ball from left-wing chaos demonstrators and stonethrowers. In this context, I can only say: It is nice to read how this ball, the liberal academic ball – I am looking forward to its opening by HC Strache – was mentioned yesterday by the daily “Austria” in a report on the Vienna ball season; the newspaper “Austria” writes: ‘On 3 March 2016, the Commission adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Your envy complex: You are not allowed to stop because you do not meet the admission requirements!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8306	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8329	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests on the gallery and in front of the screens! A budget is always a mosaic for a long-term policy. When I look at this budget, I ask myself the question: What will our country look like in 30 years? Will we have succeeded in giving every child fair educational opportunities? Will it have succeeded that today's protection seekers are a well-integrated part of our population, our society? [[Abg. Höbart: (the hands beating together) “Protectors ”! I can't stand that!]] In view of these questions, I would like to share with you a vision of what it could be like to live together and live together in our country in 30 years – a vision, but based on a very concrete human life, of the life of a former refugee child. I'm not talking about Alexander. Van der Bellen, who is currently running for the highest office in the state, because he is also a refugee child. His family has been sold several times and has found protection and reception in Austria and also a new home. [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Strache.]] – So much for the integration of refugees, which has so far been well to very well achieved. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Street:...! At that time there was still the Occupated Austria!]] [[Abg. Steinbichler:...! Those were other times!]] I would like to talk about a start-up founder, an entrepreneur and an EU youth ambassador. His name is Ali Mahlodji. He arrived in Traiskirchen about 30 years ago as a two-year refugee child in Austria. He fled Iran as a two-year-old child with his parents, spent several months in Traiskirchen and grew up in this country, in Austria. Despite his great grudges – he also dropped out of school – he has managed, after many, many jobs he has made here as a recognised refugee, to set up a start-up company with which he is trying to build young people, not only here with us, but in Europe and, indeed, worldwide, hope to use their potential, because it is always about people and their potential – even in this budget we are discussing here. Because the question comes over and over again: What should be the cost of training, for German courses, for orientation courses?, I would like to mention a specific number: €244 billion per year from tax evasion and money laundering. So money would be there if, for example, the international corporations were finally taxed justly – without having three or four children in the minimum guarantee – to cover the amount. Since the budgets are always a mosaic for living and long-term politics, it is in our will and in our power to have many Ali Mahlodjis in 30 years, many people who return a lot to this country, for example, who are setting up a company that employs many people, but above all for innovation, hope and for a better future. In this sense, it is positive that it is also planned to increase the funds for German and orientation courses for refugees and asylum seekers. That's to be welcomed. Finally, I would like to appeal to all of us – once again – because we are all elected to work on a better future for Austria and Europe: It is in our power to produce many success stories, to have many Ali Mahlodjis. In this sense: Let's work together on a good future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8411	Next, Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8432	Mr President. Dear Lord, ladies on the Government Bank! Dear High House! Thank you, Mrs. Korun – I have to predict, of course, as a disclaimer, that this has not been agreed and that you do not receive any consideration for advertising for a company that I am involved in – you have talked about whatchado. Thank you for that! This is the budget for the interior resort, which was increased by 14.5%, which is € 440 million. Of course, it's never a good idea to figure things out against each other here, which are difficult to compare, yet, with a look at my other policy areas, one should put this order in relation once: €440 million, which is about as much as the cultural budget. Or – because it was just about start-ups –: We will soon have a start-up package to negotiate in the order of € 185 million. So this increase is about three times as much. We are discussing and negotiating an extension of the not even €10 million press promotion, whose increase in the new budget has not yet been taken into account. There is also the question: What is this money used for? And if I can quote the Minister of Finance from his budget speech on the question of what is happening to these €440 million, it is about maintaining the high level of public peace and order. - Yeah, we just don't want anything. A much better contribution or other useful contribution to maintaining this public peace would be – and I am back in the press promotion – to withdraw the ads in Austria from the Boulevard today, so that there is no constant unrest. That would also be a useful approach. I am of course convinced that every euro that is being invested here is also well removed. However, it is always interesting to see what is missing in this budget. Federal Chancellor Christian Kern said that “digitalisation will come”. By “coming” he probably means such a process that goes on longer and started a few decades ago. We still work on the status quo. Sometimes you have the impression that we are still inventing countermeasures for the Y2K bug we are preparing for. Accordingly, it is also a pity that the area of cybercrime is not explicitly mentioned in this budget, nor can it be really read out in a more precise view of the figures – because this would have to appear somewhere in the figures if appropriate resources were also used for this area. In other words, digitalization promotes new phenomena of crime that are not really addressed by this budget. The suspicion is that there are no new activities. Criminal prevention, IT security is an increasing effort and have an increasing importance in daily work, including as far as security agents are concerned, and consequently they should also be taken into account. We would like to see more transparency in budgetary expenditure and, of course, more expenditure on ourselves, as well as a total understanding of what the BKA and the Ministry of Defence are doing with the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8473	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8496	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! We are now talking about internal security. It sounds very good when you make yourself here and say that the budget is €440 million more for internal security. However, if you feel a little bit on the tooth and look at it a little bit with the magnifying glass, then a very different situation becomes apparent, namely that internal security is not increased by this €440 million, but the money flows somewhere else, in areas that certainly have nothing to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen, let me come back to this black zero which has been mentioned many times today, namely the black zero for the police, for internal security! When we look at the budget, we see that the total €440 million goes to areas where asylum stories are handled. That is, in case of internal security, it is done here with a black zero. When I speak to colleagues as a police officer, I hear again and again that, while asylum is being increased in the area of tourism, there are a lot of administrative activities to be carried out – there is bloating, there is an increase to make it faster – but there is no money available for internal security. I would like to explain this by an example: Recently, I spoke to someone about a crime scene group of a state police department in a large federal state, and this person told me the following: You only have two laptops for processing fingerprints. Anyone who comes in must place his fingerprints and be stored in the recognition service evidence. However, they do not have the necessary equipment to do so as no money is available. That is, they have to do this in the old way with the black color tumblers on the paper forms. And then it'll always be funny, because when an international terrorist case is dealt with, colleagues from the other countries, from China, Germany, France, America, from everywhere, open up their laptops and want to compare, and then the Austrians say: Unfortunately, it takes a little while, in about half a year, we should have stored the fingerprints, because unfortunately we are not technically so far as we have no money for it! Mr Federal Minister, even if you may have meant it well, but there is certainly no certainty in Austria – even if it is said that we have more staff, which has already been addressed by Mr Lueger: This staff is used in those areas where activities concerning asylum seekers take place, and not at the police. I also think that if I look into my federal state where young officials are about to quit, because they are no longer working, because they are no longer able to cope with the stress and because, as few young people come and many of them return within a short period of time, they say that under these conditions normal work is not possible, reasonable work is not possible with the police. Then we have the problem that there are retirements, no or a few boys comply – and then the scissors goes up. Those officials who still have to perform the service are so burned out that they get physical problems and either go into the interior service, get transferred, or even quit. There we have to put on the root of the evil, I don't think that this budget will do something for more security. I will come back to the topic of asylum within the framework of my second speech, namely on the subject of external affairs, and I will tell you things where you are probably waving with the ears, because there is so much going wrong there and I can't tell you this much money now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8541	I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8563	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! As security spokesperson of my party, I say that we have a proper budget in all three security areas. I am of the opinion that we all have a good budget – in difficult times, that is no question at all. I would like to thank the Federal Government in so far as all our arguments on security have been addressed. Mr Hagen, as you have said, it is not true, because the question is how to distribute the individual resources within the department. I believe that there is nothing to say about the budget, because both regions have not only a proper budget for the coming year, but there have been agreements by 2020 that take account of the tasks of security matters. If I may just say something to the military: We have a budget of over €2.3 billion, we have the approximately €900 million by 2020. The Federal Government has made a security package to try to solve today's security tasks jointly with regard to the two departments. I believe that this is a good basis on which to build in order to ensure security more efficiently for our citizens. You have to see, that's not a matter of course. With regard to the defence resort, I can say that after many years – because you are looking at me – this has been achieved for the first time. [[in the direction of the Abg. Schönegger]] We have had many discussions, and I would like to thank all those who have helped. We also made a non-essential contribution last year with a unanimously agreed request. It has to be clear to us – Mr Lueger has said it correctly – that security is a comprehensive concept, since one cannot always see the classical area. But we must not lose sight of the classical area of security, that is no question at all. If we are now able to implement the issues of organisation, equipment, the problems of young people in the individual areas at a rather dynamic, rapid stage, I can only say that the Federal Government and we have jointly made an essential contribution in the right direction. That's what you're supposed to see. I would also like to express my express thanks to the Secretary of State for doing so on every occasion. I am one who has been negotiating this over many years and has tried to get the necessary planning sites. It is perfectly correct when the question has been raised here by several previous speakers, how quickly one can train those who are now admitted – not only in basic training courses, but also in vocational training and further education – but these are organizational questions that need to solve the resorts. From the budget approach, I think, this has presented a good budget to our Federal Government. Now we have to put everything into practice and fill it with life. I would like to invite you very cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8614	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8635	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the front page of today’s “Small Newspaper” – “The New Trend to the Army” – you have to realize that one year ago, such a headline probably would not have thought the Allermists among us possible. I am very proud that this headline can also take place today, and think that it can all be proud of this House, in particular those who voted in favour of the motion for a resolution for a budget, which basically began a year ago the Turnaround for the Federal Army, on behalf of their political group, and who went along as applicants: That was Otto Pendl – I would like to mention it by name, because the rulers who signed it recognized last year how important this topic is – Peter Pilz for the Greens – it was remarkable that he went along; I thank you again – colleague Bösch from the Freedom Party, colleague Hagen and colleague Alm from the NEOS. I believe that this is a clear sign of Parliament, and it can also be proud of it, and that is what it has begun. Together, we have managed to treat the Austrian federal army as being fiscally more than what it is, namely the strategic reserve of action of the Republic. Strengthening the Austrian federal army budget means no more and no less than an essential contribution to security in this country, to democracy. The Austrians can certainly be sure that every cent, every euro used in the German army, will be used for their safety. Finally, the urgently needed investments in the force, in the equipment to prepare our men and women in uniform for any imaginable threat and requested assistance are being made. The fact that money alone cannot be the solution is hopefully clear to everyone, it also needs important reforms. I call the ground defense service New, I call the resolution of the SIVBEG and the transfer of the tasks to the Herresinnen already existing military property management center – such reforms are essential landmarks on the way to a modern army in the 21st century. ==References====External links== The classical picture of our army has changed over the last 50 years. Of course, the key task is to defend the country, but also to protect the critical infrastructure, to assist in the fight against terrorism, to protect the border, to deal with disasters and, last but not least, to the foreign operations for which we are rightly praised worldwide. Our soldiers are always there when you need them. And it is clear that, in order to meet these challenges, we also need a stable budget in the context of national defence. I come back to the front page of the “Small Newspaper” and repeat it: “The New Trend to the Army”. I can also say that this House – as always with the Minister of Finance – has made the German army an attractive employer: In addition, there is a need to improve the quality of the labour market and to improve the quality of Increase the salary in the so important area of the suboffensives and the batches. We've done all of this together. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, but especially the staff members in his house. This budget creates trust and gives security – not only, but also because a special importance is given to the German army in this budget. We have come to implement from the announcer, and that is the kind of policy that creates trust and gives people security. And security is the answer in uncertain times. Aristotle said: “We can’t change the wind, but the sails are different.” – Minister Doskozil, Minister Sobotka, Minister of Finance Schelling set the sails correctly, while the Chancellor today had something wrong in his speech, it was a partisan speech. But these three gentlemen have shown in the field of safety, the sails are set correctly. I thank you for that. That's the way we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8694	Mr Bösch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8715	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has set up a security billion for this budget, a scarce security billion, about half is allocated to the Ministry of the Interior and the other half to the Austrian Federal Army. In both areas, it was time – my colleague Rosenkranz has already gone into the field of the interior – to keep in mind what had to happen until the Austrian Federal Government has adopted these measures. And it's not like SPÖ-Collegine Lueger explained that this illegal mass immigration has just happened. We have to remember this again: This illegal mass immigration was provoked by responsible statements by the German Chancellor, together with her congenial colleague Werner Faymann, who was then Chancellor of the Republic! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When this mass immigration happened, we had an involuntary and incapable federal government. Unwillful! The Austrian Federal Government did not have the political will to protect our borders, let alone close them. This has led us to spend €2 billion on this area today; €2 billion, which would be better lifted in the security field than in all refugee care, than in the administration of these illegal mass immigrations, as we currently have them. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] A total of €2.3 billion will be allocated to the Austrian Federal Army for the coming year, Mr. Federal Minister. This will be about 0.6 to 0.7% when I put it in relation to the last years, where we were 0.56 percent of the gross domestic product. That's not a lot. I would remind you all that the German Federal Reform Commission has proposed 1 percent of the gross domestic product as a minimum for an efficient national defence budget. The impact objectives that you, Mr Federal Minister, call in the budget are correct: ensuring national defence, ensuring disaster relief, protecting critical infrastructure and international operations. The structural changes made by the Minister of Defence with the four great commands, air forces, agricultural forces, logistics and leadership support, point to a good future. The territorial forces with the nine military commands, each of which is to receive a present hunter battalion, plus a military battalion, and the pioneer workers, the command mountain fight, the command fast operations, the heavy brigade and the light brigade, point out that the Minister of State Defense takes his task seriously and tries to create the necessary structures in order to cope with these challenges as well. It must be said, however, that we need a continuous budgeting of this area, Minister of Finance, because without continuous budgeting, everything Doskozil has proposed will remain a house of cards – a house of cards that will collapse again in a few years, as it will be necessary to channel all budgetary resources into a particularly personal upgrading of the Austrian federal government. The material improvement is welcome, as it is taking place, as well as the maintenance of the barracks structure, particularly with regard to the establishment of a network of civil and civil protection, not only with regard to the organisation of the armed forces. The modernisation and expansion of the fleet, Pandur and Husar vehicles, Quads and Hägglunds, is welcome. This will mean that the Austrian Federal Army will be able to deal with all the challenges placed on the German army. However, we need a sustainable budget, otherwise it will not succeed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, you must ensure that the national defence budget is guided in the coming years towards this proposal by 1 percent of the gross domestic product. We also need forms of organisation to ensure the achievement of the objectives formulated by the Minister of Defence. We need new forms of organisation in the military exercises, in the design of the militia itself, which is to take over the protection of the critical infrastructure. It is true that this is supposed to take over the militia, because who else in this Republic would be able to do so? The Austrian federal army must be able to perform this service. Mr. Federal Minister, we will also need to improve the salary situation – starting with the basic defence service. We have already heard a good example from the Styria that goes in this direction today, but we need the sustainable financing of these measures so that we can set up the structure that is now planned. This is the demand of the liberals. We are in favour of strengthening the security structures of the Republic, and we ask you, Minister of Finance, to ensure that in the coming years, this construction work, which has now begun, can be continued by a sufficient budgeting of at least 1 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8794	Mrs Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8816	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to join where Otto Pendl stopped: with a praise for the Minister. I believe that with Hans Peter Doskozil, we have one of the most qualified ministers of the interior of the last 20 years. The only problem is that he's a Minister of Defense. This is the real problem, which is also reflected in this budget: that someone who wants to be Minister of the Interior at all costs leads the Ministry of Defence. Now I will read to you a few quotes and hope that, in particular, the members of the SPÖ will become considerate. All of these are official announcements from the Ministry of Defence, from the Security Policy Office, from the revision department, from material for the public and videos of the BMLV. First quote: ‘It is now necessary, under a warning period of nearly zero, to have sufficient armed forces with the best possible equipment to support the executive if it is no longer able to control an escalating situation. Examples would be, for example, major demonstrations directed against Austria, violence between refined groups of immigrants or conflicts of extremist formations, etc.” This is said by a brigadier of the Federal Government in an official publication. So he says we need the federal army for internal use. He doesn't say it word for word, but it's about demonstrations against the academic ball, the Erdoğan demonstrations and so on. All these are not events that enjoy my sympathy, but I wonder: What has the federal army lost there, and why is the federal army to fight demonstrations? Second quote from the Security Policy Office: "Or to extend the concept of military defence and remove external relations as a necessary condition for the use of the federal army inside." This is an announcement: no more German army inside than assistance, but as the Austrian federal army's own task. That is soldiers, military against demonstrations and rallys, without police, without assistance, on the order of the Minister of Defense. The third point, third quote: ‘In the ‘heavy brigade’, all heavy tank vehicles of the Federal Government are combined. Your area of activity: So-called “robust” operations in Germany and abroad. Uses where heavy weapons are also essential in order to ensure security and order." The “heavy brigade” is the unit with the combat tanks and the heavy armored vehicles – without the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of Defence's wish: Internal use, for example, against demonstrations. [[Ruf:Ratterepublic]] Fourthly, I quote from a general staff paper which has been submitted to the Defense Committee and we all know: “... for the regulatory use to increase capacity in the CRC (Crowd and Riot Control) area to the extent of 3 light hunters...” “Crowd and Riot Control” is the above-mentioned use against demonstrations, rallys and human collections. In the general staff paper, it goes on to say, I quote: ‘Minderletale active substance’. The predecessor of the current Minister of Defence, Federal Minister Klug, has stated in a question answer what these less fatal agents are – I quote –: ‘Peffer spray, rubber balls and impulse shot cartridges, ‘Flashbang’ granades and flash/knock cartridges, flash-knocks, speaker systems (’Acustic sharking system’), alarm cartridges, irritation throwers, tear gas inserts for multi-throwing systems, tear gas grenades and irritant hand grenades’. You want to finance that now? That's the security billion? That is what the Social Democrats and the Austrian People's Party agree to do? The uproar of the Austrian federal army for the use in the interior? – Ask your Minister of Defense – we will ask him very carefully – what he really intends! I am not sure if this is just a competitive attempt with the Ministry of the Interior, because if the Ministry of the Interior is black – we know that from this controversial government – there must also be a red Ministry of the Interior, and that is – had – bad luck – the Ministry of Defence. This is the harmless explanation. The non-harmonious explanation is: This upgrade goes much further. – The Minister of Defence in Parliament will have to give us an answer to what is available here. We will not accept that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Public policy and security in the Republic Austria is exclusively a task of the Ministry of the Interior and the police and no one else. I would ask you, Minister of Finance, also to inform the Minister of Defence and SPÖ that we will discuss these plans and that I assume with full confidence that a large majority of the National Council will not agree to these plans. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8860	The next speaker is Mr Hable. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8882	Mr President. High house! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Citizens' values! The 2017 budget in the area of national defence is under discussion. What is the starting position? – The starting point is that the German army has lost one third of its staff in recent years. 60 percent of heavy weapons have been lost, fuel had to be rationed, munition deficiency has led to massive disabilities in training, large exercises were restricted, flight operations had to be greatly reduced, only one in ten militia battalions is ready to use because simply the equipment is missing. Summary: In 2015, the German army was in front of the collapse. The reason for this is for years, almost decades of ignoring the security situation, a complete failure of the governments in security policy! Only the 2015 security trauma has led to a certain rethinking. It is expected to be € 246 million more in 2017. The question, if it is “more, ” is always: From what starting level? We should not forget that in recent years, and even since 1985, the Federal Army budget has been a series of savings packages. That means it has fallen steadily for over 30 years. We should not forget that the German army has had to save €2 billion in the last ten years – a total annual budget. There is no other resort that has been exposed to such a savings programme. But total: Despite the trend change now in place, the budget – provided that the announcements are implemented at all – will be increased to only 0.68 percent of GDP by 2020. This is still below the 2010 level to name the relationships correctly. So, of course, it is far away from the one percent minimum required by the Federal Army Reform Commission. We have a considerable need for recovery in investment and infrastructure. Therefore, it is of course very important that additional money, which the federal army will also be used for investment and personnel development in this area and not primarily for services from other departments. So you also have to relativize the above-mentioned additional € 246 million for next year, because in reality of these € 246 million only € 150 million in investment for personnel and operations. The rest goes to services for other resorts. We are here on the subject of the security of messages – which has also been addressed by the Green Group – which now appears to be a task of the Federal Army. I wonder why soldiers now have the task of guarding messages. This is only because the Minister of Defence prefers to work internally – therefore this reorientation. However, this money is missing in the state defense. This money is missing from the federal government. To sum up, therefore, we can say: The collapse of the German army is initially averted, but a serious and sustainable national defence policy looks different. Unfortunately, I can't see anything on the horizon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8930	Mr Mag. Dr. Feichtinger is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e8951	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! To transform a modern English quote: And now to something quite different! – To the environment. Mr Federal Minister, you yesterday stated in your budget speech that the area of environment will be spent more than half a billion euros. This is a very well-written communication to us. If you look at the UG 43, these payouts amount to € 608.2 million. This is €19.3 million less than in the Federal estimates 2016, which provides €627.5 million. We have a higher approach in the field of old load renovation: plus 1 million €. The areas of radiation protection, chemistry and waste are unchanged. But there are reductions. We find it in the areas of urban water promotion by € 8.7 million and the sustainable nature and environmental protection of around 50 percent or € 7.5 million. We are still debating today the report on the Stoneographic Protocol to the Paris Convention on Climate Change, which you called a historic breakthrough in the debate yesterday. I'll give you all right. They have also said that we must take action in the next few years and have referred to the climate and energy strategy which the Minister of the Environment, as he has promised us in the Committee, will present at the latest in the spring of next year. The aim is to take this into account when drawing up the next federal financial framework. To be honest, the optics or signal effect would have been better if, in view of what is to be implemented under the Climate Change Treaty, first approaches had already been identified in the Federal Budget 2017. That means: We will discuss these figures very intensively with the Environment Minister and with you in the budget process. I hope that the announcements made by the Environment Minister and you will be implemented accordingly in the coming years. To close with an English classic – once again Shakespeare: He said: “The courage increases with the opportunity.” – Mr Federal Minister, the opportunity would be favorable. Let us all show courage in the field of climate protection! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9000	The next speaker is Mr Hoefinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9021	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of State at the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't come with a quote, I come with facts. It's the same thing as before: I note that all tasks, which are among the environmental agents mentioned above, can be done – properly done and implemented – with this budget. Secondly, Even if at first glance it seems that the budget is going to be smaller, we need to know – and we always say so – that this budget will be increased again by about € 130 million by means of cross-financing or by the introduction of reserves. What are – briefly outlined – the tasks to be done in the environmental field? – It is about the General Environmental Policy chapter. This includes environmental support in the country, the climate and energy funds and sustainable environmental and nature protection and radiation protection. The second chapter is waste management, waste disposal and settlement water management. In detail, Mr Feichtinger, you mentioned it, it means that environmental support in the domestic and the climate and energy funds will also be financed by around €100 million from the current setbacks. That's not an empty phrase, we know. Let's look at the year 2015! In 2015, the estimate amounted to €156.5 million, but the so-called success or financial statements amounted to €209.4 million. That means: Finally, it was a plus of € 52.9 million that was spent more. These funds have been continuously drawn from the reserves. That's the same thing here. So, as I said, It seems to be a slightly lower amount to the first, but we have sufficient funds available from the reserves. The second is that there is also cross-financing. Let us think of the environmental measures provided for in the rural development chapter of agriculture. You can and must add these 30 million to the environmental budget. [[Abg. Brunner: Show me this! It's been talking about that for years!]] A big chapter that you mentioned and that we are preparing for is the implementation of the Paris climate agreement. This will, of course, require some investment in the future. This climate agreement of Paris will tangle and change many areas of life by us. Then: If we want to get out of the fossil energy sources completely, we need a focus. The objection was there and will certainly also come from many opposition speakers and parties that there is nothing to be found in the budget. You already sketched it: We are in practical implementation. There's a Stakeholder process in progress. If the timetable for how the measure is to take action is available, the funding will also appear and be defined in the Federal Financial Framework in the coming spring. This financial framework will then be extended and valid for several years. I think that's a good basis to be able to do all the tasks safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9058	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9079	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This budget debate on the environment shows that we need a few basic things, such as honesty – honesty in dealing with the figures and honesty, especially with the population, that we say clearly what we want and what we do not want. We have two points, for example, in which I cannot imagine that we really want to do so as it is purely recorded in numbers. One point is to be found among the issues and funds for the EU and shows that we are still promoting nuclear power there. I don't think that's a goal that's going on around the Paris Treaty and the like. A second point I would like to criticize is the trade in certificates. This is a business-making company, but it doesn't really bring us on in the final effect. [[Abg. Brunner: This has nothing to do with the budget!]] But what is really the goal that we should strive for by 2050? – Net autarchy not grossly, not what we are always expected to produce, that we produce absolutely zero CO2! Why is it just net autarchy? . We have two areas which are very problematic. On the one hand, this is the energy and raw material intensive industry. To eliminate what we may want is not possible with current technologies. Mr. Dr. Ederer of the voestalpine pointed out: It will not be that far in the next five to ten years. If we do not want to deindustrialize in Austria, we have to make a big difference. This means not only doing what voestalpine is currently doing, namely moving the production of CO2 from Austria to the USA, but not reducing CO2. If that's what we want, let's say that loud and honest. As I said, For the problem of raw materials and energy intensive industries, there is currently no solution in view for the next fifteen years. [[Abg. Brunner: That's not true!]] - No? It's not true? – You probably have already invented a procedure, Mrs Brunner, how to reduce steel without needing coal. Thousands of metallurgists have been thinking about it since 1960. [[New call of the abg. Brunner.]] They didn't find anything, you found something: This is the green beam force. Please don't tell the experts, they won't even laugh about it again! The second point is traffic. We have about 4.8 million cars in Austria. If it – and this can be done cheaply and cheaply – only drive 10,000 kilometers a year and currently need 5 litres of fuel at 100 kilometres, then we need the energy of 2.7 gigawatts. This is one and a half times the Danube power station Greifenstein, which has to be provided. Even if we cannot realize this by 2050, we should not work with all possible forced measures in this direction, but give the economy time to support policies, to work on strategies. I cannot imagine more than these strategies for 2017, 2018 and 2019. I cannot imagine anything else that falls in the field of must-rules, the money-out of forced arrangements that harm the state and the economy. I do not know yet whether the Minister for the Environment really sees it as he said it, because it seems to go towards compulsion. I hope that reason acts and that you are the first to consider what is really possible, and if it is not possible to use all legal requirements to get out of various contractual works at the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9138	Mrs Mag. Brunner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9159	Mr National Council President! Dear Ministers! Dear Seers! Before I come back to the environmental budget, I would like to welcome the Green Education Workshop Niederösterreich and Tirol – the Burgenland I also see – to us. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Finanzminister, I know you're still in the house, I'd like to talk about your budget now. Maybe you can take part in the discussion again, I just don't talk around the corner. [[Call the ÖVP: He's here anyway!]] I am starting with something positive, and the issue of climate change has been dealt with for the first time yesterday at least with a paragraph in the budget speech. That's something new, so far it hasn't happened, that's progress. There are positive things like: The objective is clear, no emissions, the future belongs to renewables – it is written, it has not been mentioned orally yesterday, and unfortunately I do not find this target in the budget. Unfortunately, the last sentence says quite clearly: The aim is to take this into account in the preparation of the next federal financial framework – and unfortunately I find this objective in the budget. The massive cuts we have experienced in the environmental budget last year are being continued, which means that environmental protection will be further postponed. It will always have to maintain the so-called climate and energy strategy. I think that's the cheapest excuse at all. Yes, we need a climate and energy strategy in order to be able to vote for 100% renewable energy by 2050 to change our social system, our transport system and our energy system. As we live, as we move on, as we produce, we must have changed this to renewables by 2050, and we certainly need a strategy for that. However, we certainly do not need a strategy to remove climate-damaging subsidies now. We do not need a strategy when it comes to ecologizing the tax system. We had a survey here in Parliament before the summer, and all the experts told us emphatically: Act now, these things are scientifically accomplished! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The critical factor in climate protection is the time, and you, Mr. Finanzminister, should know that climate protection is more cost-effective, especially when it comes to early action. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Exactly!]] The sooner we act, the better the measures work, the more effect they produce and the more cost-effective they will be. We do not only experience this shift in the budget, but unfortunately it will continue with the budget. You accused the opposition yesterday that we're blocking. [[Abg. Rossmann: Please listen, Minister!]] Nothing bad, even if an opposition party wanted to block government work in the field of climate protection, is not at all possible because the government has not presented any proposals to this effect since the Paris Convention on Climate Change. [[Calls to the Greens.]] On the contrary! The numerous proposals from us have been blocked and postponed from time to time. The result is: Greenhouse gas emissions are rising in Austria. ==References== In November, the first global climate agreement, in which all states are involved, will enter into force. This is really a historic event and a great start-up project, in which all fellow citizens are involved, with all of them working together, offering great opportunities. The Federal Chancellor has today addressed the opportunities through windwheels. For a year and a half, however, the Federal Government has not been able to submit to us a presentation of the eco electricity law, with which we can also realize these opportunities. We've been saying for a year and a half, please, we're ready to negotiate. I'm not here to clumsyly criticize anything. [[Abg. Honey: He's kicking all the time!]] I am here to deal with this start-up project together, because I am convinced that it offers great opportunities for Austria as well. All economics scientists will tell you – and we have heard it here in Parliament too –: If we want to make Austria's location sustainable, it now needs investment in the environment, environment, environment! [[Prolonged condolences with the greens.]] My great fear is that with this budget we are taking a wrong path, a way into the past. We need a path to the future, which will increase environmental investment, which will enable us to fulfil our moral obligation under the climate agreement, where we can also benefit from the opportunities for Austria. I don't see that right now. I ask you to rethink this once again, and I am convinced that Austria also needs an independent, strong, committed Ministry of the Environment, Climate Change and Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9257	The next speaker is Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9278	Mr President. Estimated Minister! – My dear colleagues from the Greens, I am speaking now. [[Federal Minister Schelling takes place at the government bank.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9305	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I ask for rest to give the speaker the necessary attention. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Where is the Glavish? Where was the clubwoman at yesterday...? She's already resigned!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A Federal Minister has a lot to do and can also have conversations with other people once. I can't remember that a Federal Minister would have been permanent and always present once during a whole debate. I do not know any such case, and I now ask you to let Mr Bernhard speak. [[Abg. Rossmann: There was in the hall!]] Yes, he was in the hall, calm down, deputizing! He was in the hall, but I don't know that a minister is forbidden to talk to his staff. [[Abg. Pilz: You're fighting for every voice!]] So I really ask to calm down! – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9373	Thank you, Mr President. I'm used to the fact that passion only breaks out when I start talking. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm starting and asking for the discipline we're also showing. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I hope that this time will be deducted from our speaking time. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, it will be withdrawn!]] Three findings, if you look at the environmental budget in detail: We have an excellent farmers' minister, but we do not seem to have an environmental minister. If I look at the area of my colleague Mr Rupprechter, I can say that he seems to be doing an excellent agricultural policy – something else will be said to me by Mr Schellhorn – but I cannot see anywhere else that something has been done for environmental policy. It's extremely shortsighted. If we do not address climate change in any way, we have higher health care costs, higher economic costs, in the economy at all, and higher agricultural costs. Every euro we invest now saves at least €2 at a later date. That's not going to be done. There is currently no single measure that would not have been included in the last year. This shortsightedness leads to another insight: The non-existent Ministry of the Environment, which seems to be only available on paper at the moment, does not really need an environmental minister, because quite honestly – I have no subject now, but perhaps this here –: [[keep an empty drinking glass in height]] If I were to use this glass as an environmental minister, I would achieve the objectives on paper today. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Do you know why, Mr Hoefinger? [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] No, it's actually like that. It's linearly rewritten. I now give three examples of the effectiveness objectives. The objective for the total turnover of the Austrian economy in the field of environmental technology: €8.2 billion in 2013; €8.3 billion in 2014; €8.4 billion in 2015. The economy is developing faster than the goals of the ministry, because we are considering what we have achieved this year for the next year. By the way, it is similar with the export figures. We have 6.0 billion €, 6.1 billion € and 6.2 billion € per calendar year. This year too, we will achieve what we have done for the next year. That means there is no need for a minister to achieve the objectives next year. This is not the case with jobs. It is true that we first planned 174,000, then 185 000, and in future rising to 2019 195,000 jobs. However, last year we lost 3,000 jobs. It seems that there is not much to be felt by the Minister. Finally – this is particularly exciting –: We have little data about areas where we are really bad when it comes to resources and productivity, that is, how we deal with our resources. The problem is that at the moment the Ministry simply does not raise the data – although it is an effective goal – because otherwise one would have blackened on knowing that one has not achieved this objective. That is to say, we are either pursuing objectives which we have already achieved in the past, which is why we no longer have to put forth effort, or we are pursuing objectives where we may be able to blame labour market policy afterwards, or we are no longer collecting the data of targets of effect, because it is embarrassing that we do not reach them. What do we need a minister to present such budgets? – That’s not satisfactory! As said, an empty glass would fulfill the same purpose. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9437	Mrs Weggenstorfer is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9459	Mr President. Minister! High house! So I have to say in advance: The Minister also has no easy way of distributing from a wallet where there is nothing inside, each of which says, of course, that it has too little. The question is: What do we need to make Austria look good in the future? I believe that environmental policy is a very, very important issue. Especially in view of the challenge that we signed the climate agreement in Paris, the environmental budget is, of course, particularly required. But let's take a look at the past together! Last time, the environmental budget was extremely cut, which was quite counterproductive both in terms of climate policy and, of course, in terms of economic policy. We were told at the time that a business recovery measure of €100 million per year had been co-sold. The fact is that with the 2016 budget, for example, only €43 million are available for thermal renovations. The budget for the climate fund has been reduced, as has domestic environmental support. All right, that's it. But there were, of course, effects there. Do we want to take a look at them together? – It brought 2.5 million tons of less CO2 savings. These are, please, more than we have done by 2020 in savings. Now I'm wondering, Did this cut bring something? We have also failed to achieve this end to the economy and the environment. There were at least 7 500 jobs less that could be created by these cuts, and this in view of the fact that we know very well that there are value added here. Every euro that flows in here goes back six times to the state. - So much from the past. Now the question: Did you learn from it? It is said that we are trying to improve the budget in the environmental field a little. – Unfortunately, that is not the case. Under the rule remains a reduction of about €20 million, and the Federal Government seems to remain true to the line, simply not to do anything, wait and see what is coming. Unfortunately, this is also seen in the environmental committee meetings. We had no government paper, and all the opposition requests have been postponed. So I think it's clear that single, forward-looking environmental policy has to look different. The challenges that we have not only through the climate agreement are quite, very big. A few previous speakers have already mentioned it: There is an urgent need for action here, but as I continue to save on the environmental budget, I think there is a wrong approach, because there is some potential in there to go innovatively into the future. Unfortunately, as a winner, I do not want to recognize this environmental budget. Unfortunately, the way to the climate targets has become an even more insurmountable budget. - Shame it!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9510	Mr Matznetter is the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9531	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, spectators! I believe that the opposition, which compares the Minister of the Environment with an empty glass, complains that the Minister of Finance is in the corner instead of on the government bank, is all a folklore. Interesting is only The Federal Government – and this has clearly identified both the chancellor and the vice-channer – presents a common budget, which is actually a very, very solid one in all criticisms. [[Abg. Lugar: That he's right!]] Let us look at the overview of the distribution: More than half of this budget goes to work, social affairs, health and families, a share of 18 percent goes in the field of education, research, art and culture, 12 percent go in the field of economy, infrastructure and the environment, 12.6 percent go to the area of law and security, 6.1 percent in cash and interest expenses. [[Abg. Lightenecker: What about education, art and culture?]] - That's a good budget. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] What I don't quite understand is – and I was surprised yesterday – that Mr Klubobmann rightly praised and said today our Federal Minister for Finance: You come from the economy, but as a marketing board you will no longer be able to apply; for you brought us a good product yesterday and at the same time criticized it as, we say, worthy of improvement. [[Federal Minister Schelling: The Chancellor said that today too!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is what the Federal Chancellor meant today!]] – That still doesn’t make it any better, even if your own clubman speaks of “black zero”. Friends, could you please praise a product if you have a good product, yet with good performance values?- Oh, my God! Please look at economic growth: We were out of the crisis. However, in 2013 we had only 0.1 percent growth, then 0.6 percent, last year 1 percent, now we come to 1.5 to 1.7 percent. You don't have to hide that, you can sell it proactively positively! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Eßl.]] [[Abg. Lugar:..., is incredible!]] This tactic is sometimes mysterious to me, why you put your own light under the Scheme. Honestly, Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka: Now, for 30 years, the ÖVP has been putting the Minister of Economic Affairs, for 20 years the Minister of Finance, even if it is not so long. I mean, there was such a Maoist student group at the university in my youth age, who have the measure of so-called self-criticism that was always to be done, even if there was nothing to criticize. But quite honestly, success recipe wasn't. So I want to put the motivation for you: Sell what is good, criticize where it is not so good! [[Abg. Amon: Mr Matznetter, you were... good State Secretary!]] In the question of pensions, honestly, you really did... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's from the old clothes collection. This government has managed to raise the effective retirement age to over 60 years in a very short time; but instead of standing here and saying that we are more successful than we have done, let's go and say: It's all non-financial! We cannot give them anything more, we have a problem for the future! You have to be careful about this part, but we have a good system, it's well managed. And honestly, for marketing it is important to sell a little more yourself what you do well. That would be good for everyone. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I believe that this motto can be taken to heart by both government parties. We have a good budget, we have a good performance as a country, and we should try to improve the mood in the country, which is worse than you think. [[Abg. Lopatka: So everything is fine, not unemployment?- Oh, my God!]] If we now take our investment-favouring measures after a good start-up package from summer, we will achieve even greater success in growth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] We don't need to be ashamed, we've done good work! Don't always practice nesting pollution! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9691	The next speaker is Mr Haubner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9712	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Christoph Matznetter! It is a stable budget, we agree, but reform needs are likely to be stronger than you, that is our strength. However, if you see the need for reform, this is not a nesting pollution, so I already put great value on it, but a little more would have been inside. That was what the Minister of Finance meant, but you should probably have had to move a little more. - All right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I come to the budget and also to the economic chapter in that I say: There are a lot of measures in this budget that relate to the economy. These are the strengthening of the regions, the broadband expansion with the digitalisation offensive, rural development programmes, research and science where there are many points in them, the expansion of research premiums, the expansion of research rates and the increase of money for universities and universities. These are very important measures, which also benefit the economic sector. Or: also more money for security. I am thinking, for example, of the development of the barracks, also in my federal state. I believe that these are important measures which are also essential for the economy. But directly to the chapter Economy: The strengthening of the competitiveness of Austrian companies through the improvement of growth conditions is certainly one of the most important elements of this budget, and we see, of course, that we have focused on SMEs and the founders, and this area is very important to us. The economic policy priorities set by this budget have already been mentioned today. One, of course, is the reduction in the cost of wages, which has been set in motion. It has been the biggest additional wage reduction for decades, which is a very important point in this area. In 2017, we are taking the next decisive step with 0.4 percentage points, and the overall sum – and have already mentioned the previous speakers in part – of a billion euros is an essential step in this direction. Of course, we also have the promotion of start-ups. Especially Austria has developed into a really good start-up scene. There are many young entrepreneurs, young people who trust something and come to the market with their ideas and new innovations. We can be really proud of this because they will certainly make a decisive contribution to Austria's future move into the group of Innovation Leader countries, and this also deserves strong support, which is why a bundle of measures will be put in place in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! One issue that has been more often addressed today was taxation and new taxes. I believe that it is very important for investment and impulses to have a good mood and for entrepreneurs and investors to have security. [[Abg. Matznetter: What new taxes?]] And if, like the German Chancellor and others, we are constantly talking about new taxes, this certainly does not contribute to the good mood or to more investment security. We do not need new taxes, because the Minister of Finance has already said it: [[Abg. Matznetter: What new taxes?]] We already have enough taxes. We are a high tax country and we should see that we lower taxes and not raise them further. That must be our stated goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another word about the overstepped idea of the machine tax: I cannot find this in any European competitive economy. And as we all know: Not the machines pay the taxes, but simply the entrepreneurs, and these are already paying enough taxes. That is why we clearly say no to that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] In this respect, I believe we are going the safe path of the Minister of Finance and we are focusing on the main objective, because this remains the key to success: Consolidation and growth. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9780	Next come Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9801	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to say something to Mr Matznetter in advance: A budget calculated on the basis of the business base, i.e. in the calculation of earnings, actually provides for a deficit of €9 billion, to be a solid and good budget, which was once put down as a statement. We believe that this is anything but solid and good. The actual number – I repeat it again – of the actual budget in the statement of results: The budget deficit is €9 billion! That's what we're talking about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to address briefly some of the statements made by the Minister of Finance, which he has made in his speech, and which we quite agree with and support, namely that our government budget is ill with an expenditure problem. I quote: We are spending too much, mainly on the past, rather than on investment in the future. – That’s absolutely right. The following warning from the Minister for Finance is also correct: Don't forget, the politicians are making the debt, but the taxpayers have to pay them back! – From the past we know: Today's debts are the taxes and burdens of tomorrow. On the subject of economics, the reduction in additional labour costs is noted. Mr Haubner has already said: 0.4 percent. However, we need to look at a little in detail where it is reduced, namely the contribution rate to the family compensation fund. In reality, I have the slight suspicion that a left-hand pocket-right bag game is taking place again here. [[Abg. Tamandl: In the event of an increase in family allowances!]] We'll take a closer look at this in the future. The compensation fund, FLAF, was over-indebted with €3 billion, and there was a plan to compensate for these debts by 2018. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] As I said, we will take a close look at the development of this compensation fund. I doubt there will be a reduction in debt here. More recently, debt-based reductions in additional labour costs are taking place. This is clear, you too, Mr Minister, in your speech, that international organisations are also blaming us that this government – and that is what it is about – is not able to really address structurally the urgently needed reforms in the areas of pensions, health, education and efficiency in the administration, and that is why we always have these “And daily greetings of the Murmeltier” effects in the budget speeches of the Minister of Finance. It has been rightly mentioned today that the difference between the speech of the previous year and this year's speech is hardly recognizable. What would have to be done would have to be reflected in the budget, but I do not see anything in this draft budget. For example, it would be necessary for all new founders to make a significant reduction in additional labour costs in the first three years. Why should this apply only to innovative companies? Are not other companies worthy of funding? I don't understand. As a relief in the field of private venture capital, it would really be necessary to do something – fiscal advantages. You know, there has been the arrangement with the atypical silent participation, then an insertion into a GesmbH and sale, which was attractive, but has been abolished. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Real tax and tax relief would be important, a significant reduction in additional labour costs, not in the zero-comma area. The cold progression has been mentioned several times. What prevents you from dealing with this immediately? Especially today we have heard that the topic is not as hot as it was in recent years. We have very low inflation rates. Why Delete You're not the minimum kiss? Why don't you significantly increase the tax exemption for business transfers? Why don't you significantly simplify tax law? Why Create Don't you take off the bagatell taxes such as advertising, sparkling wine tax et cetera? Why Create You don't take legal fees? Why Make You don't have a basic pre-tax deduction for commercial vehicles? And so on and so on. Why do you raise the limit for low-value economic goods...? [[Federal Minister Schelling: Because this results in a debt explosion!]] I just said: This, of course, presupposes – you know – that you create spaces for these measures, and that is only by actually addressing and implementing the structural reforms that I spoke about earlier. But nothing happens. So I still have a list – the light is shining – of real growth impulses, whose implementation I don't see either. I would like to address the financial situation briefly: Facilitation in internal financing would be necessary. Let us reflect on tax deductibility, for example on the cost of equity, and let us think about an investment-free amount! Let's make sure more cash flow stays in the company! This will certainly not be achieved by extending depreciation duration and increasing profit taxation. Let us look at external financing, at real tax incentives for own resources supply. The crowdfunding legislation is good, but far too brave and not far-reaching enough. Let's look at Basel III. If we are thinking about a fund for small and medium-sized enterprises in the Federal Republic of Germany, we are really serious about how to strengthen the Vienna financial centre! I would like to add a few more points. Unfortunately, the speaking time is not enough. I'd have to register for another 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9874	Mrs Lichtenecker is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9896	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It may be that the budget presented here as the smallest common denominator can manage and manage the standstill in this form, but it will be too little to actually shape the future. There are enormous challenges in the labour market and the economy, and one of the major points will of course be the issue of wage costs. We know that a place of knowledge needs to put the relevant accents in this area and actually take great steps. The aim will be to reform and modernise the tax system significantly. Of course, ecologisation is an important step, while at the same time reducing additional labour costs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, this is what we urgently need, because it is precisely this cost reduction that will encourage small and medium-sized enterprises to recruit more employees and create jobs. The aim will be to improve the business environment. It is about simplification in a wide range of areas, from administration to modernisation of the industrial system. And yes, the funding makes sense especially when you focus on the future areas – including in the business sector. It is necessary to set the priorities in the areas of knowledge of the future sectors, where appropriate good conditions should be laid down. And of course, it is important to develop the appropriate measures and support for start-ups and one-person companies. The question is just how to do it. This brings me to an issue that is very directly related to the budget: the long-term transparency database. This would be a good and important accompanying step for the budgets in order to force this efficiency in this form. [[Congratulations on Greens and Neos.]] Some areas have been well-informed in the economic budget. Finally, it is nevertheless important to focus once again on what it looks like with the innovative forward-looking industries and to clarify what this means in terms of venture capital and start-ups. We will have an opportunity in the next few weeks to discuss this more closely and intensively. We are now coming to the large area of investment in the future. And this, of course, is about – we have just autumn – that if in autumn in agriculture is not sown, it cannot be harvested in summer and next autumn. [[Abg. Eßl: Harvest was already in spring!]] Investments in research are currently to be made. And even if the budgets have been increased in one area, it has to be said quite clearly: Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, that is too little! [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of the ÖVP.]] You yourself have decided that you want to have a research rate of 3.76 percent in 2020. There's a huge gap, a huge gap. This is an area that I painfully miss, because it really needs a big throw, of course also in relation to a modern infrastructure. [[Abg. Haubner: We are already very well prepared!]] We held an intensive debate yesterday on broadband, and there was a general commitment to it. Of course, the target orientation is clear: We know that the pace of digitisation is increasing enormously, and what is needed to increase broadband. And what do we have there? – We have just 110 million € for 2017. Now, just convert this to all the federal states. What remains of it is a drop on the hot stone, which is clearly too little. Instead, a big throw should have taken place here. These are the areas I am missing in these future topics of research and the economy, and we will accompany the budget debate with the appropriate proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9963	Next, Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e9985	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Mrs. State Secretary! Let me say: Somehow it would be desirable for the head of the department to be present. We are talking about the overall budget, but the individual departments will also be discussed, and the relevant ministers are never on board, so we cannot actually talk about it properly. Yesterday came great words from you, Minister: They were words that taught how to keep an address to the budget and how to do it. I have admired you for the reforms you want to implement and the direction you want to take. They have also somehow ignited and redefined the term courage. After today's exchange of beats on the morning, one can interpret courage once again: It was a moderate conversation, it was done, because nothing else came out of it. I've also wondered because I'm an entrepreneur myself and I think: Now we are talking about these 260 management companies, the ÖBB and the large companies, and below we are talking about the start-ups, but the heart of this country is actually the small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations with the Neos and representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] There are at least 330 000 with almost two million employees. These are the taxpayers in this country. This is the so-called middle class we always forget to mention. [[call to the FPÖ.]] – You're still on it, be careful that everything stays inside! You can talk later! Of course, the budget in the economic resort is quite tight. Of course it is also true that we should talk about how we get away from these rankings, namely those you did not mention yesterday. For example, how do we get away from the ranking in which we arrive at the last, at 60. Is there a place, namely, in the ranking of economic and social reforms? We should get away from that, and we will also offer you our help. We are doing something to enable you to address the necessary reforms. For example, how do we get rid of Austria's stable position in the European Innovation Scoreboard in the area, which only shows us as an innovation fuller? As Chancellor Kern has also mentioned, we should really invest much more money in order to produce Nobel Prizewinners again. Let me mention two things that are simply essential, namely the reforms that should be addressed and which are always spoken of: Bureaucratic reduction and trade reform. That's what we should talk about. – Yes, we have been talking about this since I was a Member here! But if one of my employees needs 72 working days – admittedly, there are five companies at five locations – for logging down, laying down, the regulations and documenting, then this is a bit too much. It is a fact that the trade order should be rewritten urgently. In no other Western European industrialized country, emerging entrepreneurs need as many qualifications as in Austria – that is fact. Let's re-write the business order! This creates jobs, so the economy has something to do with it, and that is why the government has something to do with it! Only then will it continue, only then can we live on the fact that our employees can also pay corresponding taxes. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10039	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10077	Thank you, Mrs Colleague, for the suggestion. I can quote the famous Chancellor Kreisky, who said a topic must be discussed ten times until it is really discussed. [[Abg. Krainer: But not in here!]] Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the stands and in front of the TV screens! These missing reforms have already been discussed in detail today, and I must return to one area again. Today, during this budget debate, the hypo-Alpe-Adria was mentioned very often as a trigger. That's the cheapest excuse. I'm curious about what it'll be next year. It seems that this should distract – and Klubobmann Lopatka has also used it – that the reforms are simply not implemented, because this amount, which the Hypo Alpe-Adria costs, could be saved with the necessary combinations of social insurance – and this is the case every year in the field of care and health. There are so many possibilities that are always shown. I should like to mention the new President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, Kraker, who, during a discussion, clearly referred to the German Government's lack of reform and the need for reform. I should like to mention one more point because he has already been raised several times today: Asylum. It is necessary to make it clear once and for all what asylumers, what war refugees and what climate and economic refugees are. Ladies and gentlemen. Looking at the reports and forecasts, 200 million people are currently on the move. We will not prevent this from being done by our Group economy, and therefore this picture that some have already seen: [[pointing to the panel on the speaker's desk]] The little ones are hanging and the big ones are running – this is a core topic, even for budgeting. Why can 62,000 cargo ships travel untaxed across the world on a daily basis? Why isn't there fair taxation? Why is the small moped driver disassembled if he does not pay his insurance premium? – In this field of tension, financial policy is being made, which is tax justice, not just with the new tax systems or with the fair pension system already addressed by Mr Dietrich. 100 € can be very much for a pensioner. I bring an example: 45 years of contributions, current pension – next time I take the decision – 647 €; a farmer from Ungenach. [[Abg. Shopf:... he didn't pay!]] – There is one who has paid, Walter, yes, he has paid! –: I really liked what Chancellor Kern said about social policy today. We can still discuss this with the Green Report today; it is right that social security was introduced at the time. But does this 100 € also need someone who has 7 000 € pension? This is very little and not necessary for this, therefore a flat-rate scheme, a casting can regime is always the worst, so we finally need base amounts in order to make an adjustment, to a fair system. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] In short, I should like to address family and education policy, since it is also a very important part of the economy; of course, that is very important, because: If we no longer have families that can afford children if we no longer have young skilled workers that we can recruit ourselves, then we have the Malheur we now have in rural areas: 100 000 farms closed, the people on site are missing for the large industrial farms. Where did they recruit their professionals? Or education policy: Yesterday, the Minister of Finance and today the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany mentioned that in the OECD comparison with regard to efficiency, whether it be the number of school students or the comparisons in the statistics, we are therefore required here. I would like to mention very briefly – this is going to be a subject today and has already been mentioned by the Green Group colleagues – that in the field of eco electricity it is just as difficult as in many other areas. The biohack cutting heaters are shut down, which are partly no longer operated, partly even sanded with the excavator and replaced by nuclear current and Russian gas. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That's the facts! 30 nuclear power plants are being rebuilt. If we do not come to a fair solution – even if the same is true: we have to regionalise the cycles – we have a problem. That's why it's repeated and for the last time: We must not sacrifice everything from globalisation, the corporations, so we need regionalization as a counter-policy. Human beings must be at the heart of, in the foreground, we have to work for people, therefore, Minister: Full support for the necessary reforms!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10144	The next item is the speech by Mrs Muttonen. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10165	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Now a big leap towards foreign policy: The tasks of foreign policy and EU policy have changed dramatically over the last few years, for example, the new security strategy is clear. In the 2003 Security Strategy, it was said – I quote – that: "Never before has Europe been so wealthy, so safe and so free. The violence of the first half of the 20th century. A period of peace and stability was set aside in the history of Europe. Today, a few years later, 2016 it says: “The purpose, yes, the existence (...) of our Union is questioned.” Our region has become more unstable and uncertain. “The crises inside and outside our borders directly affect the lives of our citizens.” – So this is quite a difference. This change must also take account of our foreign policy, and Austria must make more commitment to EU and foreign policy. In other words, Austria must be able to make more commitment, more financial commitment to finding answers to the many challenges with its partners, in the interests of our own security and stability; Challenges such as Brexit and its consequences, wars and conflicts in Eastern Ukraine and Syria and high migration in Africa. I therefore expressly welcome the fact that the funds for EZA and the foreign disaster funds as well as the funds for the African and Asian Development Funds will be increased. Even if we invest in the facilities of refugee camps or support the Syrian neighbouring countries so that there are no further conflicts and crises there, then the well-invested money is for our security. The same applies, of course, to projects for education, economic development and reconstruction in Africa or Asia. However, ladies and gentlemen, short-term grants will neither help on the ground nor stop migration. In view of the conflict in eastern Ukraine and the increasing tensions between Russia and NATO, the Austrian OSCE Presidency 2017 is also a major diplomatic project that needs to be adequately financed. The OSCE will have to play a central role next year in preventing further escalation in the eastern Ukraine and in showing an alternative to the dangerous new confrontation policy between Russia and NATO. In order to structure a common security architecture, new initiatives will be needed, such as discussions on a new European arms control. As a neutral country, Austria has a great potential to take such initiatives to launch and drive forward. The appropriate resources for this would in any case be a well-connected money. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10213	The next item is the speech by Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10235	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I would like to thank Minister of Finance Hans Jörg Schelling and his employees for their work. It is, of course, challenging in principle to create such a budget. Of course, I support the path you have taken with the aim of not making new debts in the future, because this is also important as a signal for the financial location and for the economic location of Austria. This creates trust, and trust is what we need. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to focus briefly on the budget for integration and external affairs. The Federal Government strongly invests in the key areas, including for a secure Austria. As a result of the refugee crisis, it is now necessary to invest more strongly in rapid integration, to prevent parallel societies and to give people a chance. Integration will remain one of the most pressing tasks of our society. The funds for this are investment in the future of our country, so the budget for 2017 will remain at a high level at €250 million. These funds are mainly intended to be used for German and value courses. Additional funds for development cooperation and Austria's commitment to peace, human rights and social progress are already intended to reduce the causes of refugee movements to the root. The funds for project work – for example in the ADA – will be doubled by 2021, and the goal behind it is a double: Local development must lead to local prosperity and young people must not seek prosperity and social security abroad. In addition, the foreign disaster fund is being increased as an important tool to help people around the world quickly and efficiently; the foreign disaster fund and development cooperation funds are increased by €112.5 million. As early as 2015 and 2016, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs focused on the humanitarian crisis in Syria, Iraq and the surrounding regions. This focus will probably have to be maintained for 2017. It is also important to be prepared for the humanitarian emergency situations in Africa, for example in South Sudan or Ethiopia and Uganda. Therefore, the donation of the foreign disaster fund, which was significantly increased in 2016, will be maintained to € 20 million, in the same amount for 2017. I would also like to thank another member of the government, Mr Sebastian Kurz, and his staff at the Foreign Office and all its ambassadors for their excellent work. They are, so to speak, the first business card in our country, and they contribute significantly to a positive image abroad. Of course, the Federal Minister is also an excellent door opener for our economy, and this is obviously extremely important for our export-oriented companies. In this way he creates in Germany and abroad. trust in this Republic, and as said: Trust is the most important currency we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10292	Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10313	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ottenschlager! Yes, Mr Ottenschlager's statement that the increase in funds for international organisations and development cooperation is a crisis is correct if one could say the word. Of course, they're not right. Although the Minister has used very marked words in his budget, he has clearly stated that more money will not help if there is no more performance behind it and that one is responsible to the taxpayer and so on. With the funds for foreign affairs, he even wrote that it was a command of the hour: “As a command of the hour we have increased the funds for development cooperation”, as a command of the hour, we have expanded the contributions to international organisations to € 104 million. [[Abg. Rasinger: 114, Mr Colleague!]] – 104! My written concept of the Minister stands at 104. But the question is: What happens to the money? Do new things come about now, initiatives for Syria or for Iraq or for Afghanistan or where the waves of refugees come from? There you have to look at the lower breakdowns, the account lists and what happens to the money. If the Minister did what I was thinking of, he would have to see that nothing is happening at all, for what has happened in recent years, namely, a huge money destruction machine. Actions, deployments, tribunals that have been active for years or two to three decades, which simply exist because they exist and no one is willing to disband them, continue to be financed. Let us talk about the international organizations: What do we finance, for example? – Of course, we continue to finance the UN Middle East quotas for the UNIFIL mission with €2.9 million. Middle East quota sounds good once, that could do something. – But don’t do it, because UNIFIL stands between Lebanon and Israel, and this is one of the few areas where there is nothing at all, since Israel has no interest in attacking Lebanon, and otherwise I don’t have to say anything about it. Then we have UNDOF, the quota on the golan heights. This too is on the only line, at the Israeli border, where nothing happens. None of these organisations can make a single finger for the creation or maintenance or promotion of peace in Syria or for humanitarian matters. Not at all! This goes on unchanged. For example, € 2 million goes to the United Nations Observer Mission in Liberia. Like every year, 2 million euros go in. There has now been a civil war more than ten years ago, at that time there was an observer mission, which simply lives on. What they observe and report, I do not know, but they will not contribute significantly to peacekeeping or to the prevention of asylum flows from Nigeria. I also do not believe that the development in Liberia is particularly promoted by this observer mission. This goes further: For example, we spend almost €600 000 each on the International Yugoslavia Tribunal and the International Rwanda Tribunal. Both wars and genocide are over 20 years behind. What must there be a tribunal for which only Austria costs almost €600 000 a year? This could be the way to continue: For example, we also pay one – albeit modest – but the relevance is not clear to me – amount for the organization of international de la Francophonie. What this has to do with the stabilisation of the world and peacekeeping is just as interesting as an issue of €1.15 million for the United Nations Mission in Abyei. No one's gonna know that! Abyei, this is a tiny village in South Sudan, where the two sides could not agree when split in North and South Sudan. Since the division, there has been in this tiny place where nothing happens, where there is no conflict, an observer mission that alone costs €1.1 million. If the Minister were to take seriously what was said in the budget speech or in the written version, he would say: Okay, let's see what happens to our tax money! Does that make sense? Is it a command of the hour to finance something that nobody needs? Or does that belong? I don't see that. The same is true of the increase in development aid: It might be useful to put in place measures to improve the structures in the countries concerned. But this is only to a very, very small extent. Austrian development aid is a model example of inefficiency. Despite all the efforts and criticism that I have not just formulated, it is impossible to achieve that Austria, with its approximately €100 million in bilateral aid – we now stand – will focus on only one or two countries and will therefore focus on effective and effective measures. Instead, we have ten different priority countries and several other countries, which are priority regions, have mini-teams with mini-budgets that realize mini-projects, isolated and without significant influence on the development of these countries. In the budget there is no mention, not of control of efficiency, but only of the “command of the hour”. However, the duty of the hour would be to ensure efficiency, to make a zero budget, all that does not serve the stated objectives – the stabilisation of the world, the prevention of migration flows by creating stable and secure conditions on the ground – to be removed from the expenditure lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10356	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10377	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, The tasks arising from armed conflicts and the impact of climate change are the main challenges that must be addressed not only in Austria but also in the international community. Important solutions need to be implemented in cooperation with the UN and with the UN Help Organisations. It's not about... that the UN may set wrong priorities – not at all! – but it is about Austria providing far too little money to the UN and UN aid organisations so that peacekeeping and stabilisation measures can actually be implemented. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The heavy air attacks on Aleppo, the continuation of the Ukraine crisis, the continuation of the war in Yemen, the effects of Hurricane Matthew, especially on Haiti, but also in the USA, the abolition of democratic structures, the rule of law, human rights structures, especially in Turkey, the famines in Ethiopia or Sierra Leone, armed conflicts and the effects of climate change all concern us. This has not only to do with the fact that 65 million people worldwide are on the run and only a fraction of them are making the way to Europe. It is about actually securing peace in the world. The UN, as has already been said, the only global peace-making organisation, is actually trying to set accents worldwide together with the international community of states. There are two major peace-political agreements on the part of the UN, which include: One is the Sustainable Development Goals, namely the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development for every state that is part of the UN. And the second agreement is the Paris Agreement so that climate change can actually be stopped and climate change targets can actually be met. Both UN agreements also need financial resources. This budget does not provide for these financial resources in any of the points. That is why we need not be surprised that the UN continues to call for more money, that the UN continues to call for the help of the international community. Nor do we need to be surprised at the fact that the effects of armed conflicts and climate change are in fact going to go to Europe, and we also feel these effects here. That is why we need clear financial support here. Mantra is told that development cooperation is being increased. Yes, I, too, personally – at least briefly – was pleased that a step was finally taken in the right direction. But if you look closely at it, it has nothing to do with development cooperation and bilateral relations. More € 17.1 million, yes – but no priority regions of Austrian development cooperation, no priorities such as the three-year programme, which was decided in a broad discussion with civil society and Parliament. These are not the priorities of this increase in development cooperation. Quite the contrary, humanitarian aid and development cooperation for a European Union policy on decommissioning, which is not fighting the real causes, but rather the symptoms of war and climate change. This is a clearly missing international policy. Contributions to international organisations should also be increased. If you look more closely at the budget, Mr Minister, there is little clear evidence in it, where the money actually comes from. There is no increase for UNICEF, the child assistance work, no increase for UN women, no increase for UNHCR – especially the three organisations that would actually take on important tasks now, in times of war and crisis! UNFPA, which is actually committed to the interests of women and children, is outstretched – zero – and even if you look at the Ministry of Life: The funds for the World Food Programme are estimated at 0 € in 2017. That is, Sebastian Kurz has apparently wanted a lot of money from you, and you have promised to give these money without demanding a strategy. That's what I strongly criticise here. You know, Minister of Finance, with regard to international financial institutions, exactly what it takes for strategy, for challenge, but also for a clear line in order to implement it in your home. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not presented this strategy to you, and I wonder why, because without a strategy, humanitarian aid and development cooperation cannot work long-term and sustainable.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10444	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10465	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister, Mrs. Federal Minister and Mrs. State Secretary! High house! A few thoughts on the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: It is the smallest budget among all resorts, namely weitem. Perhaps this is also one of the reasons why our Minister of Foreign Affairs is obviously striving for a higher level. There will be only €430 million in 2016. This covers bilateral development cooperation, integration, payments to international organisations – at least part of them – including the central and entire network of foreign representation agencies, i.e. embassies, consulates, cultural institutions. This amount is less than the amount missing in the Ministry of Education. Just to show a little the relation: The lack in the Ministry of Education is €500 million, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs receives €430 million. In other words: The entire budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is therefore a rounding error in the educational community! By the way, it is also smaller than the budget of the BKA: There are 900 million euros estimated. I don't know where the money is going, but that's perhaps one of the reasons why Mr. Federal Chancellor can still fly business class to New York while our foreign minister is flying wood class. However, the budget has been increased by more than 20 percent. We look at this benevolently, although the increase is percent high, because we believe that the representation of the Republic to the outside and the perception of the interests is bilaterally and multilaterally one of the most immediate tasks of the state that is necessary and cannot be delegated to anyone else. That's why we looked at this very benevolently. Also, bearing in mind that Austria is neither an economic nor a military great power – we are more of a fly weight, we say it quite honestly! – it is very important that our diplomacy is well-positioned in terms of personnel, quality and also in financial terms. For comparison only: The annual operating expenditure of an aircraft carrier group is over €2 billion. So for those who are nostalgic: It might be good that we don't have Trieste anymore, that would get the taxpayer even more, much more expensive. Now, when you look at the numbers: EZA funds increased – that's good; international organisations, Turkey facility: plus € 20 million – okay, that's also necessary. They're all throughputs. I've been looking at what's actually being spent on the representation network: That's a little bit tight. This has been stable for years, and I think we could be a little more generous. It'll be saved in the front and back until it's gone. In the meantime, our diplomats must stay abroad for five years, not four more – not, because five years are necessary, not because it has been recognized that five years are better, but that it is less often moved! One saves 20 percent of the removal costs. In many representations, only one ambassador is, otherwise no diplomat. Some messages cover up to 20 countries. That's, I think, too little. I would like to give you a very specific example: We are not represented in nine priority countries, such as Afghanistan or Iraq, where Austria wants to bring in more on EZA, on military deployments and in other ways too. In these countries, not only the great powers are represented, but – I mention an example – the Netherlands; they are represented with a message both in Iraq and Afghanistan. Sweden too – for it could be said that the Netherlands is a NATO country – is represented in Iraq and Afghanistan and is also with a large representation in Amman, where we only have an ambassador and an allotment. So I think there's still some air up there. Perhaps, as Mr Hübner said, we should also look at other posts in a very meticulous way. It is not only an increase, but also a better allocation of resources, so that our network of representations becomes quantitative and qualitative again what it once was. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10520	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10542	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in plenary and in front of the television screens! I would like to quote some of the data from the corresponding sub-book on the budget for the foreign policy sector, which reads as follows: ==References== In 2016, there were 8,700 421 people living in Austria, around 115,545 people more than 2015. That is to say, 1.35 percent increase. Most of them are immigrants, that is, refugees. Whether these are actually asylum seekers or economic refugees, we will come back to them. But there's also: 21 903 people from Syria, 18 609 people from Afghanistan and 10 002 people from Iraq. Why do I want to address these people or this immigration? – Ladies and gentlemen, we know that last year we were overwhelmed by a wave of refugees. We have the problem that under the title of asylum many people have come along, who have only moved to Austria for economic reasons. Our policy was overwhelmed, which costs you a lot of money as a taxpayer. As we have already heard today, €2 billion will be made available by the Minister of Finance for this area. This is €2 billion, which we might need in other ways and invest better, namely for a controlled migration of those who need our economy, and not for immigration into the social system. Let me now come back to a request I have already made with regard to Switzerland. You, Mr Finanzminister, know as Vorarlberger Landsmann: Sacrifice is a virtue, a Vorarlberger virtue, an Alemannian virtue, and over in Switzerland you can learn savings! You don't have to reinvent the wheel, Minister of Finance, you can also go across the border and pick up some impressions over there. My request goes exactly as follows: In Switzerland, asylum procedures are now being re-regulated. There the federal government makes the asylum attorneys available. That is, they can no longer give themselves the race, who deserves more, who withdraws the proceedings longer and even more cashed, mostly paid by the public hand, but there is an asylum lawyer who is paid by the federal government and who is handling the procedure as quickly as possible. This means that there are fast procedures, they are cheaper, and that has proved to be successful. Mr Finanzminister! As a sparing Vorarlberger, I can give you the following: Look You're over the border there! You don't have to reinvent the wheel. This would be a good measure to improve asylum policy. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Doppler.]] The Foreign Minister made the following statement in the Committee on Foreign Affairs last week: There is a community of Nigerians in Austria. These Nigerians are a small community in Austria, but – you hear and marvel – they are an economic factor for their home country! 170 million € will be sent annually by these Nigerians to Nigeria, 170 million € from Austria. It's just a little community. Just calculate what this is for an economic factor and why these countries have no interest in withdrawing rejected asylum seekers! The Foreign Minister or our government must act to make it clear to these countries that they also have to take back these people. I would also like to compare this with something I had to think about last week in Moldova. I talked to a police officer there, a Lieutenant. He told me that a Lieutenant Lieutenant in Moldova was earning 150 dollars at the police. A family in Moldova needs 200 € to survive. I am thinking of what our Minister of the Interior or our government has said: that everyone who is here, even though he has free food and logistics, would like to give 5 € per hour. These are 200 € per week for a 40-hour week – you have to compare that once! [[Abg. Wheelers: They're going...!]] – Well, that’s the question, you can discuss it. [[Calls and calls between ÖVP and FPÖ.]] But it doesn't matter that there's going to be a lot of money that's going to be sent down. So that's an economic factor. What do we do with it? – We open the Pandora’s canals, because there will be much, much more going to Austria to make good money here, to be held free and to send the money to home. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] This is our system, as we have it here, and this has been rejected. That is why we have repeatedly called for these waiting camps in North Africa from the Stronach team. The requests for them are in the committees, you have to decide on them only once. The fact is that these asylum seekers or those strangers who come here and have no right to asylum are returning. There they can then live with free food and logis, go home or wherever they want, but no longer to Austria. Now the situation is that we are no longer getting rid of those asylum seekers who come here under the title of asylum and that the funds we invest here are being sent down to these countries, to the countries of origin where they can secure a survival for the family. I can understand that too, but I think that's not our job. We need to look at our taxpayers, our Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10600	Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10622	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the most important resource of a country is the people. With their skills and skills, they are the basis for economic success and also for peaceful cooperation. It is precisely these skills and skills that are developed in our educational institutions, so it must be pointed out that every euro that flows into education is well-established money, an investment in the future. This budget also contains the corresponding priorities, from which it is clear that education has a very central importance. Of course, we also have to do everything we can and work together consistently, both government groups in order to ensure an efficient and targeted use of resources to ensure that the money is fully available in the classrooms, in our educational institutions. The Court of Auditors' recommendations are to lay down tasks, expenditure and financing responsibilities or to shift more responsibility directly to school locations. This is a message we need to implement together. It is also urgently necessary to carry out such persuasion. That is where I address your group, Mr Minister, when it comes to overcoming clientele policy, but also overrun federalism. I would like to ask you, especially with the heads of state, but also with the new chairmen of the GÖD, to work together with us. We also want to implement these points together, but we do not want to put on the savings pen in the classroom because this is the most expensive saving form. That is why I reject the assumption that only half – you have literally brought it that way – of the money that is somehow put into education actually arrives in the classroom. In reality, more than 80 percent are going to the salaries of teachers – that is for me, please, the main actors of education work! We must also give them the appropriate appreciation. But I am of course also motivated to reject all the savings desires that go in the direction of raising the maximum number of students. That would put the savings pen right in the classroom. Similarly, it is a saving measure that is to be rejected to worsen the good proportion of teachers/teachers – students. If you already call on OECD studies, we will take out the main criticism point, namely the early separation of students, and we will do everything we can to increase the quality of education in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10662	Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10683	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “What tasks should the State fulfil?” was the question of our Minister of Finance yesterday. I am of the opinion as an educational speaker: of course those who ensure that our children receive the best support from the beginning – our children – Our schools, our universities, want to become and must ensure that – so that they can lead a self-determined, self-responsible life so that they can become those members of our society that we need in order to maintain the high standard that we have developed over all these years, even for the future. In addition to satisfying basic needs, this requires a good education system and an education system, which, of course, is also well equipped in the budget. I don't put myself in the number of those who think more money alone would already change and make better. I believe that this educational budget is well-equipped, well-designed, but we need reforms in some areas – and the government, too, has become aware of this – in order to take up efficiencys that are still in place in order to break up structures that have invaded. It has also been said today that we are no longer capable of innovation and much more. We tend to speak badly of ourselves. I refer to a statement by one of our leading scientists, Professor Seilinger. He said: “In order to understand quantum physics, we have to think unusually, and I doubt whether these pathways have already been [...] run.” I am of the opinion that this unusual thinking, once in other tracks, in other categories, and not only in the same patterns, would be good for all of us. It is especially crucial in education policy to see what is possible. I very much hope that the principles of our educational reform process, namely to give autonomy to schools, will lead to the fact that the knowledge and skills of those working in schools can actually develop. 8,5 billion €, which flow into the budget, are a good upholstery to fulfill this task. Yes, every ninth euro, more than 80 percent, flows into the teachers' salaries. Although the school is an educational institution, it is also a service institution, and in service count, as the word says, service and performance of people. That's the way it is in school. We are always far ahead of our education system with self-criticism, and in this House this criticism is always strongly highlighted. I am breaking a lance today for knowing that we can also be self-confidence with the budget and that we do not have to put our light under the Scheme, but can simply stand by the fact that we are using this money properly and well. I address the request to all of us: Let us do this in the forthcoming debate on education reform! Of course, I am aware that this will be a great challenge, but let us open our minds in the sense of Seilinger: We think it's unusual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10732	Mr Mölzer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10753	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! It's very funny, I think, if the representatives of the government parties here again every year, every year, we'd be criticizing this budget every year and just squirting around. I do not understand this because it is actually the duty of opposition, even of National councils as a whole are to practice constructive criticism, but of course they also show alternatives. So I don't know what's so unusual about that. Apart from that, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a perfect budget, as you have already said today and yesterday in the speech of the Minister of Finance, and there is much to be criticised. The Minister of Finance did so yesterday in his own budget speech. It's probably a prelude to an uproar campaign that's already showing off the first radio lights. In the specific field of education and education, the Minister of Finance has said that we have heard it briefly today that he has been told by experts that only half of every euro that flows into the education sector actually comes into the classrooms. But this knowledge is not new, we do not know from yesterday that there is a gross inefficiency. What I think is true of is that the Minister of Finance has also admitted in his speech that only half of these €8.6 billion, which flow into education, actually come efficiently and he does not know where the rest of the money is going. This is, of course, an attack by the ÖVP on the SPÖ, on a SPÖ resort, but it is very worrying that you cannot find answers in this regard. We don't know that just since yesterday, the key figures also speak for it: Since 2005, in the last ten years, spending on education has increased by more than a third, by 35 percent, while at the same time reducing the number of students by 14 percent. So it's quite clear that there's something that can't be true. Now, of course, it is expected that, following Mr Finanzminister's statement in the budget speech, there will be improvements in efficiency. If you look at the budget or these sub-books, you can also see an effect target, which reads as follows: ‘Increasing effectiveness and efficiency in education management’, and information on how this objective is pursued. There it says: “Enhancement of school autonomy”, “Straffing of administrative structures”, “Building of pedagogical transition management”, “Enhancement” et cetera. But there is nothing about degradation or the like, there is no reduction. There are, of course, questions to me about the discrepancy of what the Federal Chancellor has said this morning or has announced in the media in the last few days, namely that one wants to expand the public service on the one hand, but on the other hand wants to say goodbye to client policy. So for me, that doesn't fit back and front, it has nothing to do with what's being announced here. So you stay there in the area of the announcer, of beautiful speech and you don't move in the direction of improving something. If more money goes into education, then we all know – this is also in other areas, for example in the security field – that unfortunately God is primarily due to the enormous wave of immigration last year. In fact, there is little money in real education, so the Austrian students have very little of it. We hear from vocational schools such as HTLs that the number of students in workshop groups is increased. Although it is not a problem to achieve this from the point of view of teaching, the size of the workshops is lacking. This leads, for example, to theoretical and practical teaching – a very bizarre thing. The same applies to tourism schools where cooking lessons only take place more theoretically; there is obviously saving. It really can't be! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dietrich.]] In addition, things like the fact that the coverage by LAN and WLAN at compulsory schools and schools in Austria is very low. This is not necessarily about the fact that every student in the public school can already use the mobile phone to access the WLAN, but only about the fact that a school has a reasonable internet connection at all to pass on teaching resources, for example. There's no such thing as that. There would be an urgent need for future investment. The costs of re-help that the parents have to bear are immense – I think half a billion € or 200 million € are spent annually by parents in Austria. The parents themselves have to bear the costs for work aids in the classroom – calculators et cetera. In our view, tax relief or social aid would be urgently necessary. How can we finance these things? – In my opinion, of course, one must be more restrictive in immigration policy, but the most important, I believe, would be an actual departure from client policy, as the Federal Chancellor demanded, while at the same time reducing bureaucracy and administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10819	I call Mr Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10841	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister, a common countryman of ours, Johannes Huber, has published an interesting statistics on “substance.at”. I know. Statistics are always a difficult matter in the field of education and must be interpreted, but I find them very funny and interesting. He compared your budget speech from last year with that of this year. Last year, the word reform or reforms has been launched 24 times, this 14 times. This seems to me to be a bit symptomatic of the Elan that the government is showing in this area, because it has fallen significantly. If it continues in this form, what we do not hope for, then we know where we stand in one, two years: It tends directly against zero. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Abg. Berlakovich: If this can be read...!]] I would like to focus briefly on a number of aspects that have already been mentioned by previous speakers. Central is with this budget, and we have been able to predict last year that more than €500 million is missing – a structural deficit of over €500 million! All of you from ÖVP and SPÖ have decided on a budget for education last year, which we knew in advance that it cannot hold; that has already been mentioned. Over 90 percent of the budget is fixed expenditure. These not only concern the teachers' salaries and teacher's salaries, but also the rents are absolute fixed posts, for example, which you have to pay attention to. These expenditures account for over 90 percent, and if there is a budget of €8 billion missing over €500 million, it is clear that this cannot last. Today it is not quite as dramatic anymore, but we still know that the budget you will probably decide in a few weeks will not be able to hold back in the field of education and we will have to shoot again. We are, of course, wondering how it is about the seriousness of such budget proposals or whether what we are experiencing, namely a small war between red and black, on the government bank and also here among the Members, is not the prelude and therefore we are not going on. unusual thinking has been required from the sides of the ÖVP. That would be a great story, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, if unusual thinking could take place in the educational field. I see, Mrs Fekter looks, smiles and rejoices, probably has unusual thinking in the field of education in mind. We would have a few suggestions for you. We are going to South Tyrol with the Minister next week and could study what makes the South Tyroleans significantly better than we do. [[Federal Minister Schelling: With less money by the way!]] – Yes, with less money, Minister! This is precisely the problem, for the South Tyroleans do not, for example, give up the fact that there are three different administrative systems in the ten to 14-year-olds, three different types of teachers, three different inspection systems and, and, This is where the money is simmering, Mr Minister, and we may be able to achieve more efficiency with less use. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Gamon.]] [[Abg. Moser: In your mind!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] We have the opportunity to discuss this over the next few weeks. We will also put forward proposals to this end in the Committee. I hope that the government parties are prepared to think unusually, and then perhaps really address those reforms that lead to a more efficient use of money in the field of education, because I am quite right to say: There is a need for action, there is something we need to do in order to have in the Austrian education system in future the results that we all would like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10925	Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e10946	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for Education, in her first months, was very positive by relatively good proposals for reform and also by a fast pace. What bothered me a little in person was a statement made in the Ö1 “Morgenjournal” when I really remember it. In this she said that all these structural debates, which Mr Walser has just referred to, were more or less secondary, because it was about what was ultimately more passive in the classroom. - That's right. This is also a beautiful story that you can tell, but there is probably no other area in which there is such inflated, partly superfluous administration, which has everything, but also nothing to do with what really comes in the classroom. Like last year, we have again this year the structural budget hole, which has not been stopped, of course again with the help of a relatively short-term overrun in the last second, and we have a budget which is not actually covered. There is no strategy as to how the short-, medium- or long-term strategy is to be really solved and managed. The basic problem we have here is the multi-disbursement of the national teachers, and this is an area in which the federal government transfers money to the countries without really knowing how it is then spent. You're perfectly on the way in the blind flight. This cannot be referred to as sound budget planning. In April, the strategy report 2017–2020 read the financial framework: “In the context of the FAG negotiations and the implementation of the education reform, the actual financial requirements of the UG 30 for the years 2016 to 2020 will be evaluated and covered in autumn 2016.” – Well, the same passage is now also found in the budget report published on Wednesday. However, the time has shifted slightly, to February 2017, which is due in turn to the fact that the financial compensation is still not in dry cloths, because the state princes continue to cross, and this also applies to questions of elementary education. This approach is, as a whole, a bad joke. If, in his speech, the Minister of Finance criticises that only 50 cents of every euro arrive in the classrooms, then this is also a statement about one's own work in this area, precisely because it is about this great prestige project federalism reform, about the reform of the financial balance, in which one has not gone further. I can recall a very interesting debate in the Court of Auditors in which very good plans have been made to reform the financial balance, especially with regard to such things. – Nothing has happened yet, and we can only fear that nothing will continue to happen, including in this financial compensation. [[Federal Minister Schelling: The financial compensation does not trigger a state reform, does it?]] - All right! Okay! [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] There is obviously no one in charge in the final effect. The Minister of Education is not responsible because this is a problem someone else needs to solve; there is a need for money from the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance can't do anything because the princes somehow cross over, so he's not responsible either. Who's responsible? The Holy Spirit? - Someone must be able to solve that! [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] With regard to the other side: If Mrs. Hammerschmid says that she already knows where the 50 cents are landing, that's not true – because she doesn't know where the money is going because she doesn't know how it is used. We are missing a clear commitment within the framework of the objectives of the budget. Where is the money spent? How is it used? Does it also fulfil the real purpose for which we put the money into the educational budget? The first goal must be – and this has often been said by the Court of Auditors in the field of education – to create cost-effectiveness, but unfortunately we do not do so again with this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11001	Mr Wimmer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11022	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday and today, Austria's economic location was very positive, and that's right, as I mean. The budget provides for a number of measures to strengthen this effect. I just need to smile a little bit because we are currently conducting collective treaty negotiations, of course in the metal industry, and we are getting a very different picture from the employers there: There are the black clouds on the horizon. Da_te there is the situation that the order situation is going down massively, that competitiveness is falling and that everything is collapsing at all – just that an employer does not fall off the bridge from time to time. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am saying this because it is simply dangerous and because it is almost negligent, because it is simply not right. The location of Austria is pleasantly strong. We have very high competitiveness. We have a stronger economic growth this time, and we should be pleased. We have very high productivity, which in turn increased by 1.6 percent, and exports have also increased again. In the metal industry we have increased profits again. We also have rising dividends, and the employers were not there to carry out appropriate withdrawals. Around 70 percent of the profits were collected, i.e. more than €1.6 billion. And if you look at the new Kienbaum study, you'll notice that the managers haven't been gentle either when it came to approving a wage increase. Therefore, in the metal industry, we have called for 3 per cent more wages and salaries for workers, because these colleagues are the ones who have only made this success of the companies possible. We therefore need strong wage increases for workers. This is important for purchasing power, which is important for the economic location, and that is also good for the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11064	Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11086	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that Austria has better coped with the 2008 economic crisis, and it is interesting, and this should also be a bit optimistic to us that despite a difficult phase caused by the Hypo Alpe-Adria, by the municipal credit and by the economic circumstances, the financing of Austria is quite feasible, even though it is with the corresponding tasks. Therefore, despite these conditions – Hypo Alpe-Adria, Russia sanctions, refugee movements, Brexit – we have achieved a balanced budget, a federal estimate with a structural zero deficit. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yes, we're on the right path! Some improvement is absolutely necessary, and we also do not need to pretend that everything is best. No, there is a need, but there is no reason for a world downfall either, ladies and gentlemen. If Mr. Strache, who has not been in the hall for a long time, today thinks that there is a credit terminal, then I will hold back: We have regulatory rules in the banking sector. If, partly because of the interpretation of the unfaithful paragraph, a credit leads bank directors to stand in court, I wonder what this is supposed to be. Secondly, The risk is, of course, limited, but lending is also risky. You should know that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you look at the balance sheets of the banks a little bit in recent years – you could look at them in 2009, 2010 – then you can see: There was a need for value correction of almost €9 billion. There would be a question to ask: Was it in favor of the bank? Was it in favor of the companies? Or was it not in favour of the Employees? – If I turn to a company as a bank, the employees also have a huge problem. You should hold that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There were, and this is not to be apologised for, banking problems, and they continue to exist. Remember what is happening in Germany right now! We don't need to point it out. Even in Switzerland, there were huge problems with banks. And those who think they can read in the media then, in America you have responded more quickly, only in Europe you are sparse, I recommend watching this movie “Inside Job” – this Inside Job has cost 20 trillion dollars. [[Keeping a DVD in height]] [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Do you know what the Americans did? – They have sent a lot of banks, over 500, into bankruptcy, have destroyed a lot of money, have brought savers to their assets, so they have brought up a real estate bubble that has washed up, through which tens of millions of American families have come around their homes, but they themselves have not introduced regulations, which is left Europe. One has already discussed Basel IV again and has not even dealt with Basel III. You should also think about it, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps one more word to you, Minister of State: I would like to thank you for the statements you made on agriculture in your budget speech yesterday. Yes, agriculture is a rural economy, and the hard working population in the agricultural sector deserves to be able to share in prosperity as well. Farmers currently have a difficult year, most difficult conditions and need urgent support. I thank you for this clear commitment, because it is important to pay due attention to this group of people.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11152	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11173	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! “Words do not pay any debts” was heard in yesterday’s statement of entry by the Minister of Finance. – Budget tricks do not pay any debts either, Mr Finanzminister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's go to the Minister of Finance's first budget trick: the fine calculation. In the Federal Financial Framework Act 2017 to 2020, the Minister of Finance for 2017 still assumed a structural deficit of 1 percent of GDP. That was in May of this year. In the Federal Finance Act 2017, which we are discussing here today, the structural deficit has already decreased by half to 0.5 percent of GDP. And how does our Minister of Finance do that? – It simply calculates the additional costs for refugees and for the fight against terrorism, and the structural deficit is already falling to the 0.5 percent of GDP required by the EU. [[Federal Minister Schelling:... the cost of it, too, isn't it?]] So the Minister of Finance closes his eyes and pretends that no one has to pay these refugee costs. This is not a serious budgetary policy, Mr Finanzminister, but a bird-strout policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's go to the second budget trick of the Minister of Finance: the fantasy books. For the first time in the 2017 budget year, the debt brake we decided here in Parliament in 2011. Due to the debt brake, the federal structural deficit may not exceed 0.35% of GDP. Due to the massive costs of refugees and security, this value cannot be respected by the federal government. So what does our Minister of Finance do to be able to meet the requirements by means of the statutory debt brake? – It simply turns 0.15% of the structural deficit into a fantasy correction account, which is said to be back on zero in the following years, and we are already at a structural deficit of 0.35% of GDP. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is in here!]] [[Federal Minister Schelling:... Should I break the law, or what?]] That is, our Minister of Finance is able to reduce a structural deficit from 1 percent within five months to 0.35 percent. [[Federal Minister Schelling: I would have expected you to read a law!]] Apparently our Minister of Finance is also a sorcerer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's go to the third budget trick: systematic budgeting. In its audit of the 2015 federal accounts, the Court of Auditors has pointed to massive deficits in the context of budgeting, such as the systematic budgeting in the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Justice and also in the Federal Chancellery. These systematic budgets are apparently continued seamlessly in the 2017 budget. Already the Ministry of Education lacks 100 million €. This does not really speak for the quality of this budget, Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11290	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11312	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The residential building is cross-sectional. This means that it is social, investment, transport, economic and environmental policy, cross-generational policy. This may also be the reason why Minister of Finance Schelling has not been specifically mentioned in his budget speech on housing. However, the budget is a commitment to housing development, which is an important control element and thereby also a strengthening of the success model Austria. If we take a look within Europe, we see that there are many things that are of course for us, elsewhere not so self-evident. For example, it is not possible to live in the city where you work. This is not possible in London, for example, most of London is already firmly in the hands of speculators, and the working people must live outside. Therefore, this commitment to housing promotion is very important, because it is also a commitment to promoted housing, which is at the service of people. A look at the draft budget shows that more than EUR 1 billion in housing support will be achieved for the first time in 2017. Then: A growing construction performance with a view to a growing population, still in the face of a weak economic situation, is particularly important. We have achieved record building permits of more than 65 700 housing units in 2015 – as there are already statistics. You probably cannot find an important point in the budget: This is the already established establishment of the residential investment bank. This makes it possible for non-profit housing to make long-term investments on fixed conditions and thus guarantee safe living and also predictable rents. Without burdening the budget, there are also 30 000 apartments possible. The thermal refurbishment is almost the same, though shortened, as in the previous year with € 43 million. It is not only important for the achievement of the climate objective, it is also an important boost for the labour market. If 300 million square meters of non- and poorly insulated facades are still to be renovated, it is interesting to know that 1 square meter facade creates an hour of work. So there is still an immeasurable reservoir of employment. Finally, a word on the right to rent – and I mean all those apartments that were built before 1945: Of course, this is not a budget item of its own. But depending on the rent is also the availability of household income. It is therefore enormously important for people to be able to consume even if they have paid rent. A single rental right, which guarantees transparent and manageable rent, is, in my opinion, essential, is a major topic and an important task for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11357	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11378	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) For a few weeks I have also been a member of the Grandparents' Club, like our Minister of Finance and like some of you. [[General condolences.]] If you look at such a winzling in your eyes, you ask yourself involuntarily: What about this child? Do we also take responsibility for these next generations? If I heard colleagues Fuchs talking about magic tricks, pocket play in the budget and so on, I have to say: I think we can already trust – because trust is really the most important currency – and our finance minister, who himself has grandchildren, that he is going a serious way here. We all have the responsibility here for a future that is worth living. How do we create this trust? How can we build it? – In that we don’t frustrate all resources and don’t hang a XXL debt backpack on the boy! We don't want to. I am very grateful to our Minister for Finance that he has referred to as a budget: no new debt, no reduction in debt, no black zero, no new taxes. That's where we're on a good way. However, for us to do this, we need reforms. Our older generation has a right to spend their evening safely. Currently, every fourth euro is spent out of the budget for pensions. That's in the green area. But how does it look in the next few decades? In order for us to have safe pensions in the future, we need reforms. Please keep in mind: In 1971, the Austrians spent an average of eight years in the pension, and in 2011 it was 22 years. If I think of my grandchild – if we don't do anything – it will be 30 years in retirement, and eventually it won't end. Therefore, sensible, smart reforms. I experience again and again that many seniors have to turn every euro three times before they spend it. 1.1 million pensions are below €1,053. This must be done, that is, these people urgently need to pay off the price. How much that will be concrete next year – it has already been done longer discussion – this is in negotiation, but I am convinced that we will also be able to find a good, very good solution for 2017. Fix is – I can remind you – that hundreds of thousands of pensioners in 2017 can benefit from a relief that has already been fixed in the course of the tax reform, namely those who do not receive a compensation allowance, those who do not pay taxes will receive up to 110 € per year from the Minister of Finance as a tax credit. Money from the Minister of Finance, that's a fine thing! Again to the current budget: It is important for us: no new debt, security for the elderly, but security for the next generations, for our children and grandchildren. And because you asked: Where's the courage to do all this? – The courage we have! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11433	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11454	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Mrs Aubauer, you are perfectly right: No one wants new debts! This underlines everyone, but it will be too little to try – and it is only the attempt – to avoid making new debts in the federal budget if, for example, consolidation fails at local level. This will be the case if the financial compensation continues to be the same as before, Minister of Finance, so unjustly burdened by the rural area. [[Abg. Rossmann: That's not true!]] We know, and that since 1945, that the rural area has been seriously disadvantaged in financial compensation, always with the argument that after the World War of course the cities had to eliminate severe destructions, built up infrastructure, but precisely this argument is still strained. Now it is presented that, for example, cities have to obtain a large public transport network, that many cultural institutions have to be preserved – cultural institutions that have often been created with the additional money from the financial compensation, whether they are necessary or not. Now they have to be received, while 45 percent of the municipalities in Austria cannot create a positive budget. That's the real disaster. The municipalities and rural areas are also important for job creation, for the protection of rural areas at all. At last, there must be a change in the financial balance. Mr. Minister of Finance! I very much regret that you have not lost a word in the context of your budget speech on the financial compensation, which is about to be renegotiated. I know that you are trying to bring together, in the sense of the Court of Auditors, a financial compensation in such a way that in the future those who spend the money also have the responsibility for it, and not the same as before: Someone's making it, and the other one's paying it! That this cannot work is plausible and clear. But you will not succeed in what we naturally regret, but one must be clear: The graded population key, which is massively unfair – and once again: at the expense of rural areas – must change. For example, you know, I cannot repeat this often enough here in Parliament: In municipalities, in cities up to 10 000 inhabitants there are on average 677 € per inhabitants. In cities with 10 000 to 20 000 inhabitants, this figure increases to € 791, while in cities, for example, it is already 1 300 € per head. That makes this imbalance clear. Mr Finanzminister! I really ask you: Work to change this graded population key, which massively favours rural areas and many small communities! It simply cannot be that the resident in the country is much less valuable than that in the city. No one understands that this will also paralyse investment in the communities in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11491	Next item is the report by Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11512	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Creating a high-performance and forward-looking infrastructure is one of the key tasks of a state. A marode or bad infrastructure is not beneficial for any economy – I think we agree. Without high-performance rail and road and without fast internet, no international company will settle or invest in Austria. In other words, investment in infrastructure creates jobs, strengthens Austria's economic location and, above all, secures tax revenues for years and decades. There's nothing to talk about. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The budget chapter on transport and infrastructure will be budgeted at €800 million for 2017, with € 110 million going alone for the expansion of broadband. By 2022, €15.2 billion will be invested in the expansion of the rail network and the modernisation of railway stations. This will ensure more than 40 000 jobs. However, not only the large axes are being expanded, but also numerous local projects are being started, such as the construction of park-and-ride facilities, the modernisation of railway stations, as I have already said, or the electrification of the Herzogenburg–Krems route in my home district of St. Pölten. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As Lower Austrian Members, I am particularly pleased that from 2017 to 2022 the sum of €5.2 billion will be invested in my home country, which is over two thirds of the total investment of the federal government. Another €7 billion will be invested in the high-level Austrian road network. Ladies and gentlemen! Together with a clear commitment to the promotion of electromobility and the promotion of new technologies, the basis for the high quality of the location of Austria is thus established, thus enabling the creation of new jobs and the safeguarding of jobs. Final sentence: Investment in the infrastructure is an investment in a good future for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11552	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11574	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, perhaps to the colleague Hauser: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. rural region a livelihood – so it is, ladies and gentlemen! – and therefore a very, very important factor. Minister Schelling! I should like to thank you for having been present throughout the debate. That is not a matter of course. Thank you very much for being present during this debate. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Walser.]] Now a few figures on the Federal Finance Act 2017. The budget is the art of possibilities, we have heard more often today. Income of 73.16 billion and expenditure of 77.46 billion result in a deficit of 4.3 billion €. Mr Finanzminister! It is good and right that the re-indebtedness compared with 2016 has been reduced by a third. The Maastricht deficit is 1.2 percent. According to Mr. Minister 2017, the debt ratio is 80.9%, i.e. 2.3 percentage points less than this year. It is very important – and we have heard this today – to increase the financial resources of the interior region by €440 million to €3.47 billion. It is important to me – and this has also been referred to by Mr Hagen – that this money also comes to the police, namely for the normal service, and not only as regards the refugee matter. Also for the normal service, for security, the money must arrive at the police. This is an important area. A total of € 8.6 billion has been paid for the field of work for 2017. Every year we pump more resources in this area, and yet we have the highest unemployment. More money for a worse result! Ladies and gentlemen, this is not all right! Mr Finanzminister, I say it quite clearly: It is difficult to create a budget in the present day, not to mention the cost of modern international migration or not. Of course, this budget is not very meaningful. It is very important that we also take account of administrative reform, administrative simplification, so that Austria can still stand well in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11631	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11652	Madam President. Minister! High house! In the budget, the area of health and the financing of the health sector is only a small item. This has the simple reason that the Austrian health system is financed through social insurance and health insurance. But we need to talk about it on one day as well as today, because the health budget, which is implemented via the cash offices, is at least €36 billion, 75 percent of which are public expenditure, 11 percent of the gross domestic product in total. This is therefore a powerful piece of money, which must not be ignored on such a day, because the entire financing of the public health system works through cash contributions, which, in turn, depend on the economic situation, which is not the very best at the moment. Today we heard from the Federal Chancellor that SPÖ is an economic party. Personally, it's new to me, many of you probably too. I see, in any case, that SPÖ is a non-profit party in Vienna. This is something you can do just now. It is clear that the health sector is clear. One is currently driving the Vienna health system to the wall, and this is symptomatic for the whole of Austria, because Vienna is a region where there is a strong ageing and which is suffering very much from immigration and has to spend a lot of social resources on the care of people who have not yet paid anything in Austria, but who consume the funds that the Austrians generate. And my question and message to the government is: How can a government answer that contributors in Austria are gradually being misplaced, and are shown to be poor? You only need to look at the waiting times for doctor appointments in the public area, waiting times for operations, waiting times for MR dates, et cetera, et cetera, you name it. You can see it everywhere: It's going to be restricted everywhere. The first measure of restriction is always to extend the waiting time. My clear question to the Federal Government and, of course, to the Vienna people who are on the front line: How can we answer that Austrian contributors are definitely being misplaced as people who have come from abroad and have never paid a penny? [[Congratulations to Members Doppler, Schenk and Gerhard Schmid.]] How can we be responsible for providing € 2 billion in a very tense economic situation? And how can we answer that the budget does not contain the budget target of zero migration? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11701	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11722	Madam President. Estimated ministers on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen. I don't know if you do, but every time budget debates come, I feel somehow stressed and overwhelmed. Perhaps it's simply because I don't like numbers and number games like that at all, and because this huge bunch of documents is actually difficult to manage or digest – Minister Schelling likes to mention this huge package of documents – although almost always there is something similar in it, only individually adapted to the respective ideology of the respective minister or to the current political situation and needs. I do not understand that one can call this convolut as a “budget brick. ” I'd rather call it a big debt backpack. How can you explain that? – Perhaps best with a saying by an unknown person who said: A budget tile on the table is better than a brick around the neck. How do I get on it? – Simple: The interest rates contained in this budget tile are the brick around the neck of our money system. But one thing I want to say: There was a rather gratifying moment this morning when Jan Krainer made his speech, for he was the one who loudly stated that the SPÖ did not observe and observe debt and deficit, but above all economic growth and employment rate. I think this is very positive because, as you all know, we live in and with a debt system, with a money-debt system. The debts are equal to the assets, the debt of one is having the other. Both sizes grow exponentially fast. This means and has the result that the rich are getting richer and richer. the middle class dies out as such. And the reduction of debt – well, de facto, it is actually a shift from one sector of the economy to the other. There are five sectors of the economy, but I do not really want to question that here. If you say the debt in our system is growing, I have to say: Yeah, that's right, but that's just a system mistake in our money system. But the positive thing about the whole is that this system has been made by man, and anything that can be done by man can be changed as such. That means there's always a plan B and it's actually not an alternative. To get back to the budget for a short time: The media unisono and also business researcher Felder and the head of the IHS, Martin Kocher, said that the budget was conservative, imaginative, offerer and not just courageous – and they did not mean that negative, because they thought politics was just the art of the possible. It is precisely under this principle, I believe, that this budget is also in place, because it is unfortunately not to be denied that there are public debt of € 294 billion, that there is a structural deficit of 0.5 percent, which would actually be 0.95%, but the accounting method with which one comes to 0.5 percent is a budget trick that the EU initiates, approved and also, yes, more or less, pretends more or less. And that is to be considered positive as such. I would like to say one more thing: In the morning, relatively fierce discussions were held about the increase in pensions by 0.8 percent. Do you know how much Euro this 0.8 percent will make up for a 1 000 € pension? – That's 8,33 €! And if you add the 100 € required by the relevant representatives, then that is 15 € per month per pensioner. Puh, that's already a tremendous achievement, it shows with what little appreciation we have toward those people who have worked for their lives and who should be able to trust that they will spend their evening in peace. The word trust as such occurs relatively often in the budget. I believe that trust is actually something that does not belong to a budget and financial science, because it concerns facts, clear, hard, clear facts, figures and data. Trust is a matter of heart, and I believe that's why every government must fight with the population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11783	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Thank you, Minister of State Schelling. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I assign the draft budget to the Committee on Budgets 1260. [[15:30:02]] 2. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (1253, e.g._Other Organiser Partnership and Cooperation Agreements between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Iraq, of the other part (1264d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11826	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Minzig is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11855	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Globalisation has advantages and disadvantages, but the best means to make active and positive are contracts with other countries. This Treaty also serves to promote peace, promotion of democracy, human rights on the one hand and trade, investment and the reintegration of Iraq into the world economy on the other, with a clear commitment to respect for human rights. As you can see, this is a mixed agreement, and you probably already noticed that the agreement has been in provisional application since 2012. It is a non-preferential trade agreement, which, even if Iraq is not a WTO member, contains the basic WTO directives and some preferential clauses for the public procurement market, services and investments. Iraq can become an interesting market in the future, although it is a very small market and is still very Asia-fine. The Austrian exports amount to €141 million, and our companies are served locally by the Amman/Damascus External Economic Centre and by a local consultant in Erbil. Even if our entrepreneurs have increased interest in exporting to Iraq, there are, of course, many uncertainties – whether this is the spread of the Islamic State, the strained security situation, the low oil price, or not least the corruption in the country. Nevertheless, this agreement is very important because it creates a binding framework for political dialogue, but also for economic cooperation. Such agreements also, of course, allow countries not members of the WTO to bind to the basic WTO rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11892	Mr Klubobmann Arbitrator is reported as next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11914	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to follow up on the content of my esteemed predecessor, whom I support. The Iraq region is one of the difficult world regions, a starting point and one of the centers of the Islamic State. Not least the destruction of Iraq has enabled the spread of the Islamic State, and this, of course, also – vice versa – is crucial to the issue of stability in Iraq. Iraq is threatened to continue to disintegrate, for there are not only the Islamic State but also many other dispersing forces in this country. However, despite all these difficulties in that part of which the Kurdish population is majority, there are relatively stable state structures which, of course, are is an opportunity to stabilise Iraq as a state – sometimes also within the Kurdish group – but at least as a region. I think it makes sense, in addition to the talks in connection with the Syria conflict, with the terrible events in the many cities there, to sign and ratify such a partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, so that Austria, on the one hand, and the Republic of Iran on the other. This will allow us to support and support as far as possible reconstruction and democracy efforts from our side. Politically, it may also be the chance that the necessary dialogue will be conducted through the annual dialogue forums provided for in this agreement and that we may also be able to contribute to combating the causes of terrorism. Whether it succeeds or not, you can't say. In any case, the agreement is correct and an attempt to make it possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11956	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e11977	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Dialogue must be supported by all means, that is no question at all. In particular, in such a unstable situation, as it exists in Iraq, it is all the more important, clear and clear to show that dialogue and dialogue will also be forced by the European Union. This EU-Iraq agreement, which is being adopted here today, is already from 2012. It is a mixed agreement, which has already entered into force in some respects, but partly not yet, since the national parliaments should also give their approval. As my previous speakers have pointed out, it is also a question of forcing dialogue on a broad scale, of achieving stability and democracy, of talking about the fight against terrorism. It concerns the fight against weapons of mass destruction, the sale of small arms and light weapons and, of course, cooperation on human rights, poverty reduction, health care, education and employment. All these are important points especially for this region. That is, in general, about stability and democracy. Nevertheless, we need to look closely at human rights and democracy. Since 2012, international has done very, very much. We know that many refugees from Iraq have come to Europe and the question of readmission agreements is always a major issue, not a readmission agreement as a legal instrument of human rights-based repatriation, but readmission agreements, which in this case, as they are now being concluded, are bilaterally concluded by the Commission on Council with the individual countries. And we need to look at the conditions under which repatriation agreements are concluded and repatriations take place and to what extent people who are being traced back may not be exposed to more possible violence, torture or human rights violations. In principle, there is agreement on the part of the Greens, but I also propose a motion for a resolution by Mr Windbühler on further readmission agreements to be negotiated on the Commission and the Council. Soushill, colleagues and colleagues on strengthening the EU's defence and defence policy by abusing the migration clause of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EU, its Member States and the Republic of Iraq, which is distributed to you because it is very comprehensive. Generally speaking, EU migration policy and human rights policy belong together and the European Union also stands for it, and we call on the chancellors, in particular, but also on the Foreign Minister, to present very clear signs in this regard. In order to show that the Greens are actually one or the only human rights party in this Parliament, we have not only introduced this comprehensive motion for a resolution here, but will also have two votes against from our club, as the return agreements must simply be further negotiated and should be based on human rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12029	The motion for a resolution has been presented and distributed in the key points, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12160	I call Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12181	On the occasion of the debate on the Treaty, it is worth reading a little about the history of Iraq. It's a very bloody, very dramatic story. It is an area in which the European powers – especially the UK – were primarily present, because they were concerned with oil. Iraq is the second most important oil supplier in this region. There the Turks ruled with a hard hand, and Great Britain was there again and again. That's how you've loaded a lot of debt on yourself. We've all been persecuting what happened to the Iraq War, where the United Kingdom was back, with Tony Blair. The whole has been based on a lie story in which there was no UN mandate and in which the United States, Great Britain and others have acted unlawfully. And that seems to be something that at the end point – with the many interventions in Iraq itself – has led to the formation of the Islamic state, to excretion of violence, to a dispute between Sunni and Shiite. One must not forget: Also, the West was not always entirely selective in supporting potential acts, and Saddam Hussein, who was burned as a criminal in this war and was therefore also killed – that is undisputed – was at the same time the favorite of the players in the fight against Iran and was supported with weapons and with money and with all possible achievements. This story must be kept in mind when you see what limited trust you enjoy there. It was recently a delegation from the State Department here in Parliament, and I had the opportunity to talk to these people, including people from the American Embassy. They presented the common values of Europe and the USA here, and I had to say a little critically that the Trump election campaign is not an expression of value authority or tradition, but rather a bit more radical. Not only have I noted that, but also that George W. Bush was responsible for this illegal intervention. I have also explained this a little because I believe that it is important for the European Union and Europe as a whole to try to get in touch with this region, to work together in a different way, and really to act on the basis of values, and not only to taxi these countries after what kind of land they have, what they can get out of it, and what corrupt upper layer can be caught there, which ensures that the economic interests of the welfare zones are preserved. This is, of course, one of the many causes, of course, why these migration flows have come about: for economic reasons, because of wars, because of violence, because of all the things mentioned, in which certainly, historically, we all have a joint responsibility. And that is why we are also called upon to ensure that there is a change on the ground so that people have a perspective to live there and to stay there. This is the history of Iraq. We can show this story similar to that in comparable countries in this region. I am only saying this because I believe that it is necessary that this is also mentioned here.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12233	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12254	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This Agreement claims to be a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement and to improve cooperation between Iraq and the EU in the areas of culture and social affairs as well as in the field of economics. These objectives are, of course, to be supported, and there is no doubt about that. My previous speakers also said a lot about this. At the same time, Article 105 introduces a migration clause in the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, which sets out the mandatory conclusion of a readmission agreement between Iraq and the EU, and there is already experience in this regard. A readmission agreement is currently being negotiated between the EU and Afghanistan. They were all able to tell the media that the Taliban terrorist militia started a new attack on the city of Kundus about ten days ago. At the same time, however, negotiations are taking place on the fact that people, not only rejected asylum seekers who are Afghan citizens, but also third-country nationals and even stateless people, are being postponed into this war-troubled country, which is anything but safe and in which human rights violations are still on the agenda. The political practice of recent years shows that the EU's anti-sampling and anti-refuge policy is growing. And in this context, this article 105, this migration clause, is also to be seen. That is to say, it is assumed from the previous political event that a similar readmission agreement with Afghanistan will also be concluded with Iraq, which in practice will result in even stateless people being sent back to Afghanistan, to a country that is still devastated by terror and war and that is all but safe. [[Call:Very good]] This would be a very serious human rights violation, namely the violation of the fundamental right to life... [[Abg. Lugar: This is stupid!]] – That is stupid, says Mr Lugnar. [[Abg. Lugar: Lugar!]] Okay, that is, at the human rights convention and the refugee convention, one must have cheated. However, I do not believe that for many here in the room it is questionable that human rights to life are one of the most fundamental human rights and therefore belongs to defence. In this sense, we warn against the intensification of the EU's defence and defence policy, and therefore two colleagues from the Green Group will not agree to this agreement. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Lugar]] We point out that such readmission agreements will be more and more on the agenda in the next few years, and if we, as elected parliamentarians, are consciously looking away from human life where the word is really about human life, then we will step up the human rights convention with feet. – In this sense: Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12322	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 1253 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues on strengthening the EU's defence and defence policy by abusing the migration clause of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EU, its Member States and the Republic of Iraq. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[15:48:16]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution 1760/A(E) by Mr Michael Pock, Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Petra Bayr, Mr MA, Mr Harald Walser, colleagues, on the establishment of a memorial for the victims of Maly Trostinec from Austria (1265b.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Citizens' Initiative No. 73/BI: ‘Development and financing of a tomb for the victims of Mali Trostinec’ (1266, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12398	We now come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12428	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I am speaking today about one of the darkest chapters in Austrian history, namely the crimes and atrocities in National Socialism. And if you talk about the crimes and atrocities in National Socialism, then there is a place directly connected with them, and that is Mali Trostinec. Many of you – as well as myself – had not been a term for Maly Trostinec until a few weeks ago. It is that place in Belarus – 10 kilometers from the Belarusian capital Minsk – where between 40,000 and 60,000 people were murdered in the war years 1942 to 1944. It is the place where most Austrians were murdered: 10,000 Jews, mainly from Vienna, were destroyed in Maly Trostinec. They were brought to Maly Trostinec in ten special trains, had to leave, had to go to the pits that had already been excavated – huge pits! –, they had to take off naked, put their clothes in front of themselves and order, and then they were executed with a neck shot. The oldest victim was Therese Füchsel at 86 years of age, the youngest victim was Gerson Schwarz at just seven weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, it has not been possible to establish in Maly Trostinec a visible sign of memory for the 10,000 Austrians killed. Last week, we discussed a citizens' initiative in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and decided on a resolution on the establishment of a monument. I am glad that, after some time, all the political groups have finally come to know how to establish this monument. I thank you for that. I would also like to thank Mrs Waltraud Barton, the chairman of the IM-MER association, who for years has been forcing and driving forward the construction of this Shoah monument in Belarus. Mrs Barton is also here today, at the gallery, and I would like to welcome you very warmly to the House. Say hello to God! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's important and right that you remember the killed people in Maly Trostinec. At the moment, this is not the case, at the moment hanging on trees single yellow name stamps, laminated notes reminiscent of the dead. On some trees there are fewer pieces of paper, on other trees there are more pieces of paper. On a tree even the image of a father hangs at the top of it and seven pieces of it with the image of the children. I believe that it is important – also in the sense of Austria – and that it is also an important and proper task of the Republic of Austria to place a clear sign and to build a tombstone there, because with the construction of this tombstone we locate the dead. We give them back their identity and reunite them into that society from which they were then excluded by the National Socialists. Ladies and gentlemen! This monument, this monument – call it as you like – will contribute to anchoring Mali Trostinec in the collective memory of Austria. Our generation of late-borns no longer has to bear this burden of responsibility. But our generation and subsequent generations have the obligation not to forget the injustice that happened in National Socialism, so that it never gets that far again. I would like to conclude my speech with a quote: “Whoever can’t remember the past is damned to repeat it.” That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal to you for the approval you have given in committee to be here in plenary. I'd like to give you this book along the way. [[Keeping the specimen in height]] It's the dead book Mrs. Barton has published. It lists the names of all 10,000 killed Jews, women, children and older people. She took it together effortlessly. I think it is an important and correct sign that the Republic of Austria in Maly Trostinec is building a tombstone and that it is the location of the killed Austrians. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12501	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12522	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs Barton, also from my side thank you very much. I can still remember very well how you did on 27 May. Years of the previous year at the Heroes Square Memorial on the occasion of the International Holocaust Memorial were very intrusive and very emotional about your project on Maly Trostinec, and I believe that many of the people there have been confronted for the first time with this part of our history for the first time, and I am very pleased that your work, which is very important to us all, will be manifest here today. That's very nice. I thank you for the long and continuous work on this. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach, as well as representatives of FPÖ.]] With the establishment of a memorial in Maly Trostinec for the murdered victims of the Holocaust, we are late, but, if it is actually built, we are in line with the redemption of responsibility. I often discuss with younger and older people about the question of historical responsibility, and I hear very often: We should finally draw a line below the story! or: I don't blame myself, I wasn't there! or: We should finally let the past rest! So much for these feelings and these sensibilities to this very difficult and painful chapters of our past are also comprehensible, but they are still dissatisfyable to false, I would say once. On the one hand, modern culture of history and memory does not assume that there is an end to history or an end to history. History is a continuum, and our present is a product of exactly this story. Nor is it – I don't want to say: never!, but as good as never or very rarely – about individual guilt. Of course I wear or wear They are not to blame, but we bear responsibility for what has happened together up to now and up to the future. It will also not work to let the past rest. At about the age of 18, I myself – and certainly many other similar experiences – visited Yad Vashem, the Holocaust Memorial in Israel, for the first time. And for me it was unthinkable. And for the first time, the responsibility has become quite clear to me. For all the exhibits there, such as for signs with the inscription “Dogs and Jews must not enter here”, I did not need translation boards. This was my language – a language that has been completely contemptuous of those who were not only oppressed at the time, but who have been humiliated and murdered. Dealing with collective experience and with the past in general is complex and painful, but it will not be spared from us – especially when it becomes painful! I very much hope that these thoughts and these responsibilities will also manifest themselves in the concrete monument in Maly Trostinec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12574	Next speaker: Mr Lasar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12595	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very happy to be able to talk about one of the darkest chapters of Austria today. My previous speaker has already said that it was one of the darkest chapters. I can only say: Finally, we are also talking about this. Finally, people murdered by the Nazis in the small town of Maly Trostinec – this place was almost nobody known to this day – are also going to be set up a worthy monument. Another small replica that we have already heard in part, but I might want to add another information: Between November 1941 and October 1942, the so-called Central Office for Jewish Emigration called on the Israeli Cultus Church to inform the Jewish people that they had to find themselves in a collective camp. From there it went to the station Aspang, from where the trains went towards Maly Trostinec. Immediately after the arrival in Maly Trostinec, these people were taken from their last property and property. Then they were taken to the shootings. They had to stand in front of pits, were shot and thrown into the pits. In the forest piece of Maly Trostinec, about 10,000 of the Austrian Jews murdered by the Nazis were murdered. Maly Trostinec, ladies and gentlemen, was – and this is very important – not a concentration camp. Maly Trostinec was an extermination camp. This has been done there for the sole purpose of the murder of Jews. Of the Jews deported from Vienna, about 17 survived. Due to the fact that there are almost no survivors, the place remained of course also very long unknown. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very clear to you: It is our duty, especially the duty of official Austria here in Parliament, to set up a memorial for our Vienna Jews who were murdered in Mali Trostinec. I think that's more than ever our duty, because one must also say: Unfortunately, it took a very long time. You have to remember that this 75th. The anniversary of the first deportations is the least known, the first deportations were carried out 75 years ago. It is more important today than ever to remember and remember those who have been murdered in a terrible way. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12640	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12662	Madam President. Minister! High house! But above all, Mrs Barton! It could be a highlight in my political career today when it turns out that we are really able to make nails with heads and decide to make something that is overdue. I think it is natural for us today to show murdered respect in the Nazi era that we give them the minimum, namely that they are not forgotten. We have to thank Mrs Barton for knowing these names at all. I would like to present this book – it has already been mentioned – here too. [[keep the said book open in height]] We have a horrendous balance here on 550 pages. On these 550 pages are the names of the Austrian Jews who have been murdered in Mali Trostinec or in the nearby forest – people whom we have not known by name, a crime that we have known nothing about for a long, long time. It was their initiative that this item on the agenda exists today and we can talk about this chapter. The research, how necessary it is to publish such books, shows that the number of victims of which we have heard of, 10 000, in the meantime thanks to the research, unfortunately already had to be increased: There are about 13,000 victims. Many Austrians who were murdered there did not come directly from Vienna, were not part of those ten transport trains that were sent from Vienna to Maly Trostinec, but came, for example, from the concentration camp in Theresienstadt. That we have the duty to remember these dead is, I believe, clear. Since the end of the war, the Austrian Black Cross has been trying for the graves of war abroad, but especially in Austria. The Black Cross has also set itself the task of maintaining the graves of politically or so-called racially persecuted people. This is quite clearly our task, it is our duty to do so, and politicians have known themselves several times over the past few months and years. I remember that two years ago Mayor Häupl made a clear statement on the Heroes Square for such a tomb. It is a tomb, it is about mentioning these people, remembering them and not forgetting them. I think it is – and as it seems, it will be – a very, very positive sign that the Austrian National Council is sending out today. I am very grateful for that. But we must not beat ourselves on the shoulder, it is our duty to do so. I would remind you that the time is also a bit urgent, because next year in October is the anniversary which we all set for the establishment of this tomb. So we still have a year to do this to make nails with heads. This requires the appropriate financial resources. There is also the offer for support from the Belarusian side. Mrs Anna Aksonova, for example, reported that there could be such a tomb in an already dedicated place, she also pledged help in the creation. Let's decide! Let us see that this money is quickly provided and these dead finally have a worthy tomb! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12719	Next item is the report by Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12740	Madam President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Barton! It is now a year and a half ago that we met for the first time and then analysed you in a rather pointless situation, that you have been in the circle for years, at all ministries, at all parliamentary groups, at the city of Vienna. It was an exciting lesson for me as a very young Member of Parliament that there are things in our Republic for which we undoubtedly have to take on the responsibility that we should have taken on much earlier than after 75 years. All the key institutions in this country have said that it must be a right, good and necessary and de facto measure to be implemented immediately, as the next steps must be taken to negotiate the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with Minsk in order to achieve a corresponding memorial for 10,000 Austrian citizens. The lesson for me was that all of us in our Republic in a particular area wanted the same, namely this memorial in Mali Trostinec, but people did not talk to each other or a citizen with great commitment charmingly hung in the waiting loop. We must not forget that today. This is the lesson I took from your citizens' initiative. I am grateful and humble that we can decide today. However, all six political groups should also be able to meet us every day when someone comes to us and serves us on a subject. We should listen more closely and react faster, that is what we should take away from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12774	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12795	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The present motion for a resolution on the establishment of a memorial for the victims from Austria at Maly Trostinec has its origin in a very important citizens' initiative with the aim of setting up a worthy memorial in Belarus. Auschwitz and Mauthausen, ladies and gentlemen, are a term for us unlike Maly Trostinec. In the small Belarusian The village was also a death camp in which the Nazis murdered 60,000 deported people from 1942 to 1944, that is, within just two years. A large group of victims, as mentioned more often, were Jews from Vienna. Of 10,000 deported Jewish Viennans, only 17 survived. The chapter Maly Trostinec is not yet completed, especially for those who have lost relatives or friends in the death camp. Ms Waltraud Barton, with her commemorative initiative IM-MER, reminded of exactly these victims: “In no other place have so many Austrians been murdered as victims of Shoa during the NS period as in Mali Trostinec. Nevertheless, this place located near Minsk in Belarus with the crimes committed there in Austria is almost unknown. The association IM-MER has made it a task to preserve the memory of the more than 10,000 Austrians deported to Minsk and Mali Trostinec in the Greater Minsk region, to anchor Maly Trostinec as a place of destruction in the collective memory of Austria, and to contribute to the fact that, through educational work, especially in the field of human rights and in issues of civil appeal, never again can such a thing happen in the name of law.” – This can be read on the website of the initiative. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days is All Saints and Aller souls, days when we remember our deceased – something that is also due to every and every one of the thousands of people murdered in Maly Trostinec. With the funding and the establishment of a worthy monument for the victims from Austria required in the application, we want to return their names and their identity to the victims and not let them be forgotten. In addition, the planned monument is also a monument to never allow such a fascist, authoritarian and all human rights-absorbing regime. – Thank you very much for the commemorative initiative IM-MER! Thank you very much, Mrs Waltraud Barton, at the head of this initiative!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12840	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We come to the vote on item 3 on the resolution relating to the Committee's report 1265 relating to the establishment of a memorial for victims from Austria at Maly Trostinec. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 173.) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 1266 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. [[16:11:40]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Christine Muttonen, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, colleagues on restarting arms control in Europe (1267 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12911	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Vetter is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12940	Greetings, Madam President! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. This motion for a resolution calls on the Foreign Minister to support a re-start of arms control in Europe and refers in particular to the Austrian OSCE Presidency in 2017. The text of this motion for a resolution refers to the existing Conventional Armed Forces Treaty in Europe, the CSCE Treaty, which has unfortunately been sent over time. The 1990 CSE Treaty and the OSCE are interconnected in a double sense: On the one hand, it connects the city of Vienna, and on the other hand both have a common origin. What do I mean by that? – In 1972, in the middle of the Vietnam War, Richard Nixon needed a success. He traveled to Moscow with his security advisor Kissinger at that time, in May 1972, and a relaxation initiative was launched at that time. This relaxation initiative went in two directions, on the one hand in a political direction and on the other hand in a military direction. The political arm of this relaxation initiative has focused on the CSCE, the Conference on Security and Cooperation, which was in its wake at the time, but which has gained a boost. Since then, there have been preparatory conferences, which eventually led to the famous Helsinki document in 1975. There have been follow-up conferences, and finally the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe in 1995 has become a permanent institution, the OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation. It is known today that it has its permanent headquarters in Vienna. The military part of the 1972 initiative was the agreement that there should be talks about limiting conventional armor in Europe. Many of us remember the time of the 1970s and 1980s regarding disarmament, especially in relation to nuclear weapons: Salt I, Salt II, START I, START II. However, there were also discussions on the limitation of conventional arms in Europe between NATO and the Warsaw Pact. These talks were institutionalized between 1973 and 1989, for 16 years, MBFR-Talks then called it. At that time, the negotiators of the two military forces met each week until finally the Convention Forces Treaty of 1990 came into force: There were limits to the number of tanks, there were restrictions on missiles, i.e. artillery, armored vehicles et cetera, et cetera. This contract has then been suspended by Russia and is ultimately in the sand. If we now call on the Foreign Minister to take an initiative, this is actually more of a support than a start to thinking, and for that we have a good soil in Austria. We all know that we like bridge builders and – to talk to Bismarck – operate the honest brokery. However, I just want to express one more thought – because the lamb is already lit: Disarmament as such, too, cannot be self-evident in the context of Austrian foreign policy, but must also be of interest, guided by interest in so far as there is a lower likelihood of a conventional war in Europe, of course, especially if it concerns Austria. That is why I wish the Foreign Minister much success. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e12991	Next is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13013	Madam President, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, we have experienced the increasing erosion of our European security architecture. The latest example of this – you have certainly read it in the newspapers – is the Plutonium Destruction Agreement that Russia was subject to last week. According to the agreement, the US and Russia actually wanted to destroy and detonate 34 tonnes of weapons-enabled plutonium on both sides. With this amount, about 17,000 nuclear bombs can be fitted. The United States, too, has no longer really implemented the Treaty because of the huge costs that this entails. At present, our European security architecture is unique worldwide, designed in the high phase of the Cold War – that has already been done by my previous speaker – and also from the realization that no side can create peace and security for itself without cooperating with the other side and making compromises. This security architecture has ended the arms race and has largely peacefully settled the East-West conflict. We still benefit from this peace dividend. In the 1990s, however, we were no longer really concerned about the maintenance of this architecture. Russia was military, economic, politically weak, the West showed no real interest in taking Russian security interests seriously at the time, provoking sustainablely and addressing compromises. In 2001, President Bush unilaterally announced the ABM Treaty, which largely prohibited missile defence systems. The CSE Treaty, which should ensure greater disarmament and transparency among the conventional forces, has also never been adapted to the new power conditions after the resolution of the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact. The new Baltic NATO countries have not even joined the Treaty after its independence. Meanwhile, neither Russia on the one hand nor NATO countries on the other, nor Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova, apply the Treaty. The consequences are, as expected, a slow loss of trust, dwindling cooperation, dwindling compromise and also an increasing weakening and disintegration of the old security regulations. If we want to prevent a new arms race in Europe and find solutions for Ukraine and Syria, then sanctions, NATO maneuvers and the Minsk Agreement alone will not be enough. We will have to come back to a comprehensive, new and honest security dialogue, including with Russia. In August, the German Foreign Minister and current President of the OSCE announced that they would like to start a dialogue on the re-start of conventional arms control. This will not be easy and will not bring success in the same way, but in view of current developments it would not be responsible to try this at least. I think Austria should support this initiative as much as possible and continue during its own OSCE Presidency next year, i.e. 2017. I would therefore ask you to support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13064	Next, Mr Magistrate. Haider on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13085	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, on the part of the Liberals I can assure you that we will support this request that you and Mr Lopatka have made. On the one hand, it is really high in time, even in view of the upcoming OSCE Presidency of Austria next year. On the other hand, the Treaty on conventional forces in Europe of 1990, concluded between the NATO Member States and the Warsaw Pact – which has quite its merits, its Merites, it has led to the destruction of 60,000 heavy weapons systems – has survived, and the Warsaw Pact is no longer there. You have already shown it anyway, and some successor states have not ratified it at all. From this point of view, it is high time to try to re-start arms control in Europe as part of the OSCE. Of course, the Austrian OSCE Presidency will also be able to do this next year. We shall therefore vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13116	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Soushill's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13137	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the Green Group also welcomes the initiative of the colleague and colleagues to re-start arms control, particularly in the framework of the OSCE. The OSCE has become one of the most important organisations in our area, precisely because of the effects of war and crises in our neighbouring countries. Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova are countries that need support. I think that in order for solutions to be found, it is also a major challenge for the 2017 OSCE Presidency to continue what the German Presidency is doing now to force dialogue initiatives. If civil society, the scientists, journalists and journalists don't talk to each other, we will have a problem finding solutions. I myself was just recently in cooperation with the ADA in Ukraine and Moldova, and there was the topic of supporting dialogue initiatives at this civil society level. Without civil society, there is no solution, we know that from history. We are convinced that Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, in particular, need these dialogue initiatives to find a solution for themselves. I would also very much like to come back to the triangle, namely Russia, the European Union and Ukraine, at last. The Minsk Agreement is one, and compliance with the Minsk Agreement, of course also observed by the OSCE, is an important step. Nevertheless, there is also a need for the various political dialogue initiatives, not a question, so that a solution can finally be found for this whole region, for these wars and crises.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13176	The next item is Mr Weninger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13198	Madam President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very happy about this well-founded foreign policy debate and I see the adoption of the OSCE Presidency next year as an opportunity for Austrian foreign policy, again a voicepiece for peace initiatives, for offensive foreign policy, for a European security architecture. I would therefore also like to thank Mr Christine Muttonen, who is President of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, for this initiative, and I would also like to thank him for the unanimity in this House. Some or many of us were politicalized in the European and Austrian peace movements in the 1980s, which was at the height of the upgrade, the NATO double decision, the installation of SS-20 missiles and Cruise Missiles in Europe. If I may refer to a Swedish Peace Research Institute document, it is seen that there has been an absolute high level of armor in the 1980s, then a decline and, unfortunately, a permanent rise since 2005. [[a piece of paper on which a graphic can be seen, holding in height]] The data are also shown here, 14 percent more arms exports are carried out. Unfortunately, the largest importers are still the crisis zones in the Middle East with 61 percent more armor, especially those regions in which the most bloody conflicts can be observed. However, I would like to add one more comment because we are doing the anniversary of the bombing of the Kunduz Hospital. Since this event in October last year, a total of 75 attacks on medical facilities and hospitals have occurred in Afghanistan, Syria, Yemen and South Sudan. All too often, this is taken as a collating damage, and I think it is also a task of the United Nations and Austrian foreign policy to make a sharper political and diplomatic protest in every attack on a hospital where patients, relatives, relatives and doctors are killed. Targeted attacks against medical institutions, schools, kindergartens, but also cultural sites must not be taken as inevitable collateral damage, but should be branded as unacceptable disregard for human rights. This would also be a task for an offensive foreign policy next year within the framework of the OSCE Presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13238	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13259	Madam President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ‘Re-start of arms control in Europe’, as stated in the motion for a resolution. Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that Europe faces urgent security challenges. If you look at the world, not only in the Middle East, but also in Europe, Europe is threatening the tensions between East and West a relapse in old conflict patterns and associated with a dangerous and costly arms race. In order to counter this development, Austria will work together with other countries to re-start arms control in Europe. This is a real, important and, unfortunately, necessary step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13296	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the resolution on the re-starting of arms control in Europe, which is attached to the Committee's report 1267. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 174.) [[16:30:36]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 7. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues, on the termination of the European Union's accession negotiations with Turkey (1269d.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13360	We now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Mölzer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13387	Madam President. Minister! High house! What we are negotiating here are basically three different requests: On the one hand, we are talking about our freedom of movement, which clearly calls for an end to the accession negotiations between the European Union and Turkey. Furthermore, we are discussing a NEOS proposal, which is basically going in the right direction, because it also criticizes the human rights situation in Turkey accordingly and, in the future, calls for an end to the accession negotiations, but is perhaps a little too sharp. In addition, there is a request from the two government parties, which, as a matter of fact, completely blurs this NEOS proposal, pretending to be against Turkey's accession to the European Union, but in reality, if you read the lines carefully, is rather a washer story. There are really many good reasons to be opposed to Turkey's accession. From our point of view, this is not only the case since yesterday, but also the principle because the Turkey is neither geographical nor culturally part of the European Union nor of Europe. We also know, however, that the degree of democratisation is a problem. We know that the current developments of this summer have made the whole worse, even worse. We also know from the monitoring reports of the European Commission for years and days that the human rights situation in Turkey is anything but rosy. This leads to the fact that not only are rational reasons against it, but also the majority of Austrians oppose accession. It is also likely that the majority of the population in many other European countries is opposed, and the majority of Turks do not necessarily want to enter the European Union. We have been promoting a tailor-made partnership for a long time, that is nothing new. Nevertheless, it must be said that for years and days, only the attempt has been made to play on time, and the accession negotiations continue. I am still in the ears of Wolfgang Schüssel, a few years ago, in a Committee on Foreign Affairs, as he said: Yes, of course, we are against accession, but we continue to negotiate, because this builds pressure on Turkey to improve the human rights situation! – Now, a few years later, if you let Revue happen, we see that we have kept right, the human rights situation has by no means improved. These accession negotiations do not lead to anything. The sad thing is that the government, if we look at this negotiation and the voting behaviour in the committee, which we are likely to expect to be here today, is not prepared to follow their words as well. One wants to decide on a request that does not de facto say anything, except to support the Federal Government in its opinion. The Federal Government is not called upon to terminate these accession negotiations or to do everything to stop them. Mr. Minister Just two days ago, in the media or in an interview, he announced that he was against it, but there is nothing to be seen about. We, ladies and gentlemen, urge you not to behave like CETA and Co and just to spread sand into the eyes, talk big and actually do nothing at European level. We will continue to do so, we will make further proposals so that there will be a little further. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13439	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13460	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Turkey has been more focused in recent months than any other EU neighbouring country. On the one hand, we have good economic relations with Turkey, on the other hand, in connection with the refugees, apart from the closure of the Balkan route, was of course crucial to the relaxation of the situation that the German Chancellor succeeded in reaching an agreement with Turkey. I think that's positive. But what is disastrously negative is the development of the human rights situation in Turkey. The Turkish President Erdoğan has signed a controversial immunity law, which I would like to say to all the Members of this House, which leads a Turkish parliamentarian to arrest on the basis of government-critical statements. It can be used as a means of reconnaissance. This is absolutely inappropriate to Turkey's desire to join the European Union. That doesn't fit! If I want to become a member of the European Union, I must meet minimum standards. Turkey is becoming increasingly distant from these minimum standards. It is not an argument, then, if Turkey points out that negotiations started officially in the 1960s and the accession talks at the beginning of October 2005. After the events in recent months, I am not in conflict with my liberal predecessor, but I can agree with him, that must be said: I do not think that Turkey's accession to the European Union is possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when the Foreign Minister addresses this, I feel that this is positive because it is more honest access than many others who say: Yes, we have to negotiate and negotiate! – This is the official position. However, when you talk to leading representatives of other countries – we always meet with parliamentarians from other national states – everyone says that it is clear that there can be no accession at this time. I think it's more honest to say: There will be no accession of Turkey to the EU. I have already said at the outset that Turkey is an important neighbor of the European Union – economically and, of course, when you see the crisis heather. In spite of all the concerns I have raised, Turkey is still one of the most stable in this region. Therefore: No to accession, but at the same time it is true that what has already been said at the time by Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik and Federal Chancellor Schüssel, namely this tailor-made partnership, is to be sought. This is in the interest of the European Union, but also in the interest of Turkey as an important economic and regional partner. It is good that we here in the House are constantly dealing with the human rights situation in Turkey, because a very large minority there must not be forgotten by us either, that is the Kurdish minority, and that is the next problem. It is more than a problem because, as President Erdoğan has done in the Kurdish question, the next thing you have to do is to accuse the Turkish President. In summary, we have a clear positioning: No to Turkey's accession to the European Union!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13517	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13539	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to understand Erdoğan’s preservation of power, it is important to look at what has happened in Turkey in recent years. Point one: The IS has strong networks in Turkey, and this is what it owes to the ACP government, personified by President Erdoğan. You have common interests. A common interest is, of course, to be a strong Islamic region. Another common interest is that they do not want Kurdish or other religious structures in the Middle East. A common interest is also the fall of Assad. If we were to vote in favour of a termination of EU accession negotiations, it would mean that precisely these radical Islamist networks would be strengthened in Turkey, which of course we all do not want. Point two: Under the cover fight against terrorism – specifically named: PKK combat – Erdoğan declares all his opponents to terrorists or to state enemies. He suspends them, he arrests them, and it is hardly left to them political space to present their criticism openly. Why he does that has many different reasons. One reason, of course, is that he does not want to lose the entire ultranationalist Turkish electorate, he depends on their support. Another reason is that he is responsible for the failure of the peace negotiations with the PKK and also with the HDP. What many forget is that Turkey has never been a democratic country. [[Abg. Schimanek: If it is not a democratic country, then...!]] It is not true that the Armenian or Kurdish question has begun with the PKK. There have always been massacres and genocides of minorities in the history of Turkey. That is also the reason for Erdoğan's declaration of all his opponents in this regard, so to speak, as terrorists or enemies of the state. The PKK is, of course, only a consequence of this suppression and assimilation policy if we explain this. If Erdoğan today declares his main negotiating partners in the peace process as terrorists or as enemies of state, it is simply an open sign that he has no interest in the peace process, in the peace negotiations. That's where we should put, and we can really put pressure on it. Point three: Under the guise of the democratization of Turkey, Erdoğan simply blocked the last objective media. The ACP is also in the process of simply arresting the last critical Members – that is, those of the HDP. These arrests must not be underestimated, because I think these arrests can really lead to the outbreak of the next civil war in Turkey. Due to the starting blocks that Erdoğan calls “cleaning action” – under quotation marks – over a million Kurds and Alevites have traveled to Western Turkey. A termination of the accession negotiations with Turkey will certainly not put pressure on President Erdoğan because, as I think, he would be just right, because then he can isolate himself and establish his own Islamic empire. Of course, this does not help us, so we abandon all democratic forces and all minorities in Turkey. The accession talks are a guarantee for minorities and also for all the democratic forces in Turkey. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] I think a demolition is really not a good strategic way to put pressure on Erdoğan with this means. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I speak clearly and openly: President Erdoğan is already on and off, but this path is not exactly the right strategic path. If you really want the democratisation of Turkey, then you simply have to create different levers, put other policies in place – and that would be the reactivation of the peace process, because only an effective peace policy can also reduce the number of refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13591	The next item is Mr Cap's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13613	Somehow one does not come about symbolic or real political steps. I think it is right that we are now dealing with Turkey extremely critically, but in half a sentence Saudi Arabia was also mentioned. [[Abg. Schimanek: Bravo!]] This is also what I think is the most evil country of evil with its dual nature and with its dual policy, which certainly has powers that have their fingers in it in support of the Islamic State and terror. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun]] Not for nothing, the US has even taken a decision that has made the Saudis quite outraged – but the latter is indifferent to me. To Turkey I would like to say the following: They are not only starting to do human rights violations, but they are simply starting a re-Islamization process, given that Kemal Atatürk would turn around in the grave. He really tried to make reforms and bring Turkey closer to Europe and to European values. This has been completely contrary for years. On the contrary: We are even now trying to build networks via the Turks who live and work in other European countries. So somehow – I also said this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs – this celebration in the case of Constantinople in 1453 included anti-Christian cultural signals directed against the rest of Europe. I think you have to see that, and you can also make a critical statement about it. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] You don't always have to practice a kind of restraint here, often associated with pedagogical arguments like: We must continue to negotiate for educational reasons, perhaps they will become clear. At some point the argument doesn't interest me anymore! It's just that – and I've always been very different –: 68 million people, an agriculture, where we are going to die when it comes to accession – that is simply not possible! And we are also facing the geopolitical situation that all the crisis spots in the region are suddenly crisis spots on the edge of the European Union, where we should, so to speak, also be present. So I don't actually see that. I think the clear words are right here. I too am against Turkey's accession, I say quite openly; but I also have very different reasons for that, I must say, and not only the question of human rights. I think, of course, they have been held for a long time, given them the status of candidates and told them again and again, we're talking about it when they're good, and what do I know? – In the final effect, this has never taken into account the fundamental question of why and whether Turkey should and can be a part of the European Union, and this goes beyond economic activity, which also goes into the cultural sector, which is also widened in a wide variety of ways. One should stand there and also have an open discussion about it. This is what we are doing now, and I believe that this was also quite clearly presented here in Parliament. One last sentence: No one understands Mr Gülen, and no one understands a military coup there, but to use it the same way, in order to take action against tens of thousands of people who have already been on the list for a long time, from the media, from the judiciary, from the ranks of teachers?- Oh, my God! I mean, that's a cleaning process you have to imagine! That is why it was absolutely right how the criticism and reaction of many of us was on it. - That's what I'm saying. Nevertheless, they should ensure that the pact with the European Union is respected.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13661	Next, Mr Magistrate. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13683	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The prospects for Turkey's accession to the EU are limited to government and consensus between government parties. I don't need to quote anyone anymore, even though I was planning on it. It's clear. However, as early as April of this year, i.e. three months before the coup attempt, we have tabled a request for the government to initiate an investigation at European level which will simply determine whether Turkey still complies with the so-called Copenhagen criteria or not. If this is not the case, Turkey would have to be given the status of candidate countries, in accordance with Article 5 of the October 2005 negotiating framework. With a state it behaves a bit like a person: The true character and nature of man or state manifest themselves in distress. In the coup one can actually talk about the nail sample, and this nail sample the Turkish government did not pass – I agree with colleagues Cap. Mr Erdoğan did not take advantage of the opportunity that there would have been in Turkey to make a close-up after all the civil society and all the parties had condemned the coup. On the contrary: He saw this as a “gift of God” – his words – to weaken democracy even further towards dictatorship. It is therefore clear to me that Turkey has finally demonstrated that it simply has no place in the community of interests and values, which is the essence of the European Union, in the foreseeable future. At this point, however, I would like to stress that NEOS is not about breaking up the talks and relations with Turkey. On the contrary! We want to bring them back – vice versa – to an honest level. Turkey will not join the EU, we all know – let us lie to ourselves and to our Turkish friends! That is to say, instead of holding a sham debate on accession, which simply will not take place, we must work on this tailor-made partnership, which then takes into account the interests and possibilities of both sides. However, holding on to the Schimary of EU membership is simply an obstacle to getting to this next level. The step there – and there we distinguish NEOS from the ÖVP and also from the SPÖ – simply requires a little courage. And yes, Mr Erdoğan will have one of his usual cases of anger in the short term, but we will do so; but the completely inconsistency-less alternative proposal of the SPÖVP simply does not bring us any more centimetres, just because what he is asking the Commission to do is already literally – I suspect that the request has been copied – in Article 4 of the negotiating framework. That is, even if our request in committee was rejected, my appeal to you, Mr. Federal Minister, is to support your clear statement with actions and initiate the process of reviewing the status of candidates – as contractually required. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13731	The next speaker was Mr Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13752	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are faced with the unique situation that, with the exception of colleague Berivan Aslan from the Greens, all are saying that the negotiations are to be terminated. The Foreign Minister says it medially, the other representatives say it at least in the House. The Foreign Minister has even said clearly, everyone wants it and nobody says it. And despite these clear statements, we have the situation that we are negotiating today, among other things, the rejection of an application by both government parties, which is aimed at breaking down the negotiations. This is an interesting story, but it is quite typical of the reasons that lead to the loss of confidence in politics: on the one hand, when it is heard somewhere, to say: Yes, we are all for the demolition, all for the demolition!, but when it comes to whether we are voting in favour of the demolition: No, no, no, – This is exactly the policy that should not be! Mr Vavrik has just said: There is now a Whischi request, a no-na request from the coalition parties, which goes out of the way of this very question and leaves everything open. - I don't understand. [[Abg. Fekter: The listeners have not understood this!]] [[Call: That's a good thing anyway.]] – Well, the listeners understand much more, Mrs. Colleague, than you love, you can believe me! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The listeners have quite a clear impression of government policy and of the Lavieren, whether it be on the so-called refugee question, on the question of mass immigration, whether it be in Turkey's question or many other questions. And one thing about human rights, because it always comes: Yes, human rights are of course important, but that is not the criterion why one can be for or against Turkey's accession. Then one could really say that we continue to negotiate until the human rights situation is in order, and if it fits once, the Turks join. – This is a principle decision, because otherwise we would have to say that we will hold accession negotiations with Lebanon – they have a relatively good human rights situation – or with the Cape Verde Islands or with Senegal or Ghana! We have a better human rights situation all over the world than in Turkey, but that is not the meaning of that, that really does not want anyone! In Turkey, the principle is: Do we want this non-European state, which is non-European, which enters the largest crisis zones – not the universe, but at least the Asian world – into the EU or not?, and all say no. And when it comes to saying no to the constituencies, everyone says Jein again – that can't be it. That is why I would ask both here – the request to both major parties – not to agree to the negative committee report on our request to terminate the negotiations, which includes exactly what is called for here. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13817	The next item is the report by Mr Bundesminister Kurz. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13840	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would very much like to start with the point of Turkey, as it is currently being discussed. Mr Hübner said that many people have a clear attitude here. – I think it takes a clear attitude to Turkey, not only in the question of accession, but in many areas. For example, we have clearly condemned the coup attempt. Why? - Because a military pitch can never be right or good. We have already condemned the deterioration of the human rights situation in Turkey before the coup attempt, because Turkey has developed very well in the last ten years, but has, as far as the human rights situation is concerned, definitely evolved further from Europe in recent years. And we have also after the Turkey deal, as far as the refugee question is concerned, and even after the coup attempt, we have not hesitated to say what is developing negatively in Turkey. I mean, that's important: If we, Europe, want to be credible, then we must not look away from it. There are clear interests as regards cooperation with Turkey, but there is also the need to uphold our values, and we do. As far as the accession negotiations are concerned, Mr Hübner has said that more than just words are needed, and I share this assessment. I am not in the body of the Heads of State or Government, but the Chancellor has represented the line of the Austrian Federal Government, and I have a very strong opportunity with the Foreign Ministers to decide whether new chapters should be opened in the accession negotiations with Turkey, whether the negotiations should be intensified and dynamic, just as the Turkish deal has promised the Turks. I am quite clear that Turkey's development is such a negative one that, in my view, there is no reason at all to open up further chapters, and I am not available to contribute to this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to take the opportunity, as it is the next item on the agenda, to say a few words about our relationship with the Visegrád States. From my point of view, cooperation is important, and when I came into office, it was one of my first actions to make direct contact with these countries and to intensify cooperation, because it is not only a political advantage for us, but in particular an economic sense. [[Complementary of the Abg. Kitzmüller]] According to Germany, this is the region with which we economically have the strongest exchange. As far as accession to the Visegrád countries is concerned, however, I can only say that there is no such possibility and therefore does not ask the question at all. The Visegrád States are a completed club without any possibility of including new countries, so there is no possibility of accession to the Visegrád States at all. But what is available is the possibility of intense contact, and that is also good and right. Austria is firmly anchored in Western Europe, but at the same time it is a gateway to the East, and it makes sense that we continue to maintain this good contact that we have in both directions. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Last point from my side: You have certainly discussed the budget in great detail today; I just think it makes sense to mention a few figures in my area, which give us pleasure. I would therefore particularly like to thank the Minister for Finance for coming to our area. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: You could have been there!]] [[Abg. Brosz: That's a joke now! At first the ministers were not at the debate, and then do they want it now?- Oh, my God!]] There are major challenges in our area, in particular as regards development cooperation, as regards aid on the ground, when looking at the situation in Syria and other countries, and I am very grateful that there is a positive development: the quadruple of funds for the foreign disaster fund, but also the doubling of funds for bilateral development cooperation. These are important steps in the right direction. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13905	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13926	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Termination of the European Union's accession negotiations with Turkey: If the EU continues to stick to these accession negotiations with Turkey, it will also lose its last credibility, ladies and gentlemen. Our people have no understanding and confidence in this EU. And recent developments in Turkey have nothing to do with democracy, but nothing at all! The effects are and have also been felt by us in Austria. Europe would not succeed in joining the EU. That is out of question. Turkey is not a reliable partner, neither for Austria nor for the EU. But despite this great rejection of the population, the EU wants to stick to these accession negotiations, and that is not all right. Mr Lopatka, Commissioner for Enlargement, Johannes Hahn said: Turkey was and is a candidate country. – I am telling you that this statement and this view is not all right. Turkey is not a candidate for EU accession in this form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13950	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e13972	Mr President. Mr. Minister! On the termination of EU accession negotiations with Turkey: The EU's accession negotiations with Turkey are primarily concerned with Turkey's geographical situation, which is definitely almost complete in Asia and not in Europe. The waves of refugees are already leading to a dangerous mixture of cultures and religions, which is apparently desired by the EU and some Member States, but whose negative consequences are hardly estimated. A visa freedom for Turkey or even a full membership would also make this vessel overflow. Turkey under Erdoğan cannot be called democratic either. The so-called coup and its consequences as well as dealing with the Kurds speak for themselves and in no way correspond to our culture and values. It is also to be questioned how far the Turkish dictatorship is already extending to Europe. As an example, the networking and mobilization of thousands of Turks living in Austria can be addressed in a short time. organized, unregistered and illegal to make thousands of our streets unsafe for Erdoğan. Turkey is being paid by the EU and its Member States in order to cope with the refugee crisis, but a visa freedom is still required, which will ultimately end in full accession. Turkey's behaviour towards some EU Member States as well as with respect to minorities and their own officials, media and intellectuals is unworthy of EU membership so that accession negotiations are to be terminated immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14008	Next: Mr. Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14029	Mr President. Foreign Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, it has already been said a lot of the right thing today. From the outset, we liberals have noted that accession negotiations should not take place at all. - Just to remember. In principle, we must insist that the European Union should also adhere to the historical, geographical and cultural boundaries. And this has always been our basic position, so we have not understood why accession negotiations have at all been opened and not just partnership talks have been held from the outset, because entry is simply not to take place from these fundamental considerations. We all, of course, have criticized the entire development of the human rights situation on the ground. If the editors of opposition newspapers are stormed, occupied, disbanded, banned, journalists arrested when women are shot with rubber shots before the World Women's Day, they face violence when we have to experience military action against the minority in the country, against the Kurds, brutally when a coup is brutally beaten, then it is natural to condemn it. But this coup is also to be questioned, because you already have the impression that it looks like an ordered coup, like a so-called fake coup on order, so that you can only get through it so that you can turn off the tens of thousands of oppositionists who have already found themselves on prepared lists accordingly. This must also be questioned critically, in addition to all the geostrategic points that have been addressed. Similarly, there is not only a very specific suspicion, but it is a fact that Turkey, with Mr Erdoğan, displays a new imperial Ottoman relationship and more or less openly supports the Islamic State and also makes oil business in this region. This, of course, in conjunction with the geostrategic interests of other countries, whether these are the Saudis or also the Americans who want to secure pipelines from economic and economic interests there in the future. You have to see all of this and this is of course a reason for legitimate criticism and also for a rethinking. So I'm glad when everyone says to a few today in the house: Termination of negotiations! I'm just wondering: Why not stop them, and why do we reject our requests in this regard? Why do you speak differently in public than you do here in the house? That's not honest, and that's what we call cheating. You can't call it otherwise. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If today a colleague from NEOS has found out here and said: Turkey's accession is not an issue at all! yes, I ask you if it is not a subject: Why then continue to be negotiated in the direction of accession? Because it's just a subject and because one wants to create facts sometime, even if one says now, it's not a topic. If you want to live honesty and it's not an issue, then you also have to stop the accession negotiations. We have heard it at the Congress in Vienna, which recently took place that the woman Merkel apparently returned to Vienna for the issue of orders. I think everyone's been looking for it again. As Mrs Merkel may already have suggested that further accession chapters should be opened. And there has been great silence in the forest. That's how I got this confirmed by some participant who was there. There has been nothing critical about it from the head of government. This is where we have been asked to open further accession chapters with Turkey, including Mr Hahn, who is also forcing and demanding this. Or: Visa freedom for Turkey. Mrs Merkel said it very clearly: From January 2017, visa freedom will come for the Turks. – Yes, where is the Austrian government that says: Not with us!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's exactly the dishonesty you need to show. Mr Foreign Minister, if you say that accession to the closed group of the Visegrád states is not an issue: That's a question of will. A closed group can also open. And, of course, there is also very serious interlocutors in the Visegrád countries, who are quite open if we want to do so. You have to stop it. You also have to articulate it and look for the conversations. There would be many in the Visegrád group who would be happy if Austria would take a step on them here, and then probably the closed group would open up again if one had the will from our side. We want it, and we would like to push it forward, and I believe that this would also be a good step in the historical tradition of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14091	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall be voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 1268 of the additions to the resolution 1661/A(E). Who's calling for it? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. vote on the resolution on the human rights situation in Turkey, annexed to the Committee's report 1268. Who's calling for it? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 175.) Vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 1269 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[17:10:10]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution 1843/A(E) by Dr Johannes Hübner, colleagues on cooperation between Austria and the "Visegrad Group" (1270 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14175	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. First word message: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14199	Mr President. On the subject of Visegrád, both Mr Foreign Minister and Mr Klubobmann Strache have already said a little bit, but I can still go into the depths, Mr Foreign Minister. The Visegrád states are by no means a closed club, they are not an EU, they do not have a constitution, that is a loose union of states. What Mr Foreign Minister is likely to say is that in 2014, the Hungarian Foreign Minister spoke out against an extension of the group around Austria and Slovenia. That is true, and Austria has then established such an alternative format with some other countries. But that was 2014, and today we have the year 2016. Since then, the world, at least in Europe, in the EU, in the Member States and in our neighbours, has turned considerably. Today, the Visegrád Group has acquired a new dimension and a new topicality, which was not yet imaginable in 2014. Today we have a group, a block, which, in order to use the statement of the Czech President Zeman, reproduces the power and influence of the Member States through its existence. That is to say, the Visegrád Group is today a block in the EU that no one can pass over and that de facto is a veto power. This is what we see in the completely unhappy and in my opinion inconceivable policy of the EU to necessarily install a compulsory quota system for the mass immigration of third-world migrants in Europe. This system has failed. It is still formally in force, and it is always threatened with sanctions against the non-cooperative states in Sunday's speeches, it is threatened with the European Court of Justice and so on, but de facto nothing has happened since a year, because the Visegrád block is standing and because it is the result of what the Czech President has said: a multiplying of the influence of the individual Member States, and thus an effective counterweight against Juncker and Co in Brussels. Now it may be that we want to join this group formally. I dare to bet, Minister of Foreign Affairs: If we make such a request, it will not be treated negatively. I dare say: If you go to Hungary and talk to the Hungarian Foreign Minister and make it clear that we want to be there now, we will be included in this group. [[Interference of Federal Minister Kurz.]] And even if you have failed so far, it would probably be possible to enter into close cooperation here. I do not dare to claim that, but I do not believe that the Visegrád states are refusing to cooperate with Austria on important EU policy issues. In 2014, other people were in power, the people who saw in Hungary the power of darkness, who saw in Orbán a politician who reminded them of the darkness of Europe, and so on. They were other people than today. Even the Lord Core does not have these memories of the dark times If he speaks or thinks of Orbán and Hungary, the Foreign Minister has never had them, we know that. Therefore my invitation, regardless of the current request, to consider once again applications from the FPÖ to be useful if they are. I believe that to speak with the words of the Foreign Minister, if we try to read what he really thinks he would support this request. This is why I too have tried to advocate that we vote against the negative committee report on our request and that we should accept it indirectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14257	I hope all have understood this double denial now. Next word: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14281	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If Mr Strache here refers to large parts of the House as “falsifier”, just because we do not agree with a FPÖ proposal, then that is not fair, not okay, because the Foreign Minister has said it again today, and not only here, but also elsewhere, that Austria says: [[Abg. Strache: What you say, you have to do too!]] No, there can be no accession of Turkey to the European Union in these circumstances as things develop. [[Abg. Strache: And why will it continue to be negotiated?]] It is of course an important step not only to say, but also to be politically represented, because it is not the case that the whole EU or other countries in the EU think so immediately. You have to work on this consistently, and today Sebastian has said it again once more. By the way: Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. You say we should agree to this Visegrád proposal, but there is the language a bit strange. In the introduction of the proposal, they refer to the now ‘real EU’ with its ‘typical representatives of the EU nomenclature’ and cite Angela Merkel as such. This reminds me of a division as it existed in real-life socialism with the nominal Soviet Union, which was then tilted. [[Abg. Strache: You've recognized it!]] That is, my interpretation, which you confirm, is that you actually want an EU chicken, that is, a European Union exit, which derives from it, because you want to turn it into a shaky light. Therefore, this intention must be rejected and, ultimately, this request. Of course, cooperation in Europe is important, which is out of question. Clearly yes to the forthcoming economic problems and to this incredible migration crisis. But it has already mentioned Foreign Minister In short, that this group does not necessarily value the fact that new members are coming. The Visegrád Group was founded at the time by Havel, Wales and the Hungarian Prime Minister Antall to harmonise together the efforts to make the change of the states from former Communist republics to democracies, and to prepare the common way into the European Union and into the European Atlantic structures. [[Abg. That was 25 years ago! Time is advanced!]] This has succeeded, they are NATO members, they are members of the European Union and now represent the common interests. But especially on this question that you address – migration – Austria is actually front runner and with Sebastian Shorter dedicated than these countries themselves. They have made critical comments and do not want to accept EU rules on refugees, but Austria is front runner here by saying that we are closing the Balkan route so that more people do not come. That is, we do not have to join any grouping, we have common interests, and especially on this important question, Austria is moving forward. And by the way: The fact that cooperation with these countries is of crucial importance can be seen from the figures: The Czech Republic is Austria's sixth most important trading partner, Hungary's seventh most important, Slovakia's nineth most important trading partner. There are enormous growth rates of Austrian exports to these countries in difficult times: 8.5% by Czech Republic, 8.2% by Poland, 4% by Slovakia. That is, cooperations, not only in the economic field, but also in many other areas, such as energy security, health care, agriculture, infrastructure. This is happening, it will be intensified, and I think that is a good cooperation that can also be promoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14364	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doorer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14385	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the request of the Freeman to join the Eastern European Club of the Visegrád States, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic: The FPÖ argues here to act in the interests of citizens. Let us take a look at what the Austrian common ground with the Visegrád states is! First of all, I call the word unemployment and the EU principle of free movement. The fact is that workers from Eastern Europe are streaming to Austria in a large number and are therefore pressing for our wage and social standards. The SPÖ has responded that we have worked on the wage and social dumping law; SPÖ and ÖVP jointly implement this in the government. The question now is: How did the new friends of the FPÖ, the Visegrád countries, behave here? – The Visegrád states have acted in opposition to this protective measure by Austrian workers, there have been negative reactions from the friends of the FPÖ, in particular a rather harsh response of a Slovak minister. To the Send Directive: This too is a front line, I would say, in the policy of the Visegrád states. In particular, Eastern European companies with Eastern European employees are trying to secure competitive advantages here. I look at how to agree with the Visegrád countries on this question. Mr Hübner, thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In February 2016, FPÖ also submitted a request for the sectoral closure of the labour market to EU citizens. This is mainly about Eastern European workers. To this end, you can still read on the FPÖ website that the Member says: "Our labour market needs to be protected from workers from the Eastern states" and "errors of the EU's overly fast opening". I'm saying that's unfair! On the one hand, if you wish to join the Visegrád countries, which are reuniting this Eastern European club, it is embarrassing to re-establish, on the other hand, and on the other hand you will send them their own blue homepage: You are not really desirable in the EU. – I do not think that is how cooperation works in Europe, nor does cooperation with neighbouring countries. I say: The fresh love of the FPÖ to the Visegrád states is only based on one field, and this one field is the refugee crisis. Otherwise, there are few overlaps, not even in peace and military policy in Europe. The relationship with Russia, the missile shield, Mr. Strache, is reality. The rocket shield in Poland and the Czech Republic has been created by the Americans and has a very clear orientation: The missiles are directed against Russia. - You should know that. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is the dangerous!]] And I also say: This is not forward-looking for Austria. Or want Are you extending this missile shield from Poland to Burgenland? I don't think that's good. The SPÖ here says yes to talks with the Visegrád states, yes to neighboring cooperations, but a clear no to this blue request that we join this Eastern Europe club firmly. This request by the FPÖ is a non-political dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14454	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14475	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the EU is, of course, facing major challenges, but this has to do not only with the effects of war and crises in the world, but also with Brexit, with unemployment, with youth unemployment, also with the social gap within Europe. And of course, these many, many open questions need to be resolved. But unlike the FPÖ, I see no reason to re-install a veto power, as Mr Hübner has said, within the European Union. Not at all! Even to a greater extent, there is a need for a close-up between the European Member States in order to achieve solutions. It has now been presented in the statements as if Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary were indeed conveying a common policy. But they don't, and you know that. The four countries have different positions, foreign policy, and European policy. Dealing with Russia – as my colleague said earlier – especially after the international annexation of Crimea, was extremely different within the V4. Some have been drawn to Russia or are still doing so, but others have not. And others are quite clearly on the side of Ukraine and also on the side of Ukraine in territorial terms. That is to say, there is clearly no such common picture of the four states. Mr Minister, a very short replica to your remarks: This Parliament, the elected representatives, the legislative body of the Federal Government, today discussed the budget in the first reading from 9 a.m. in the morning to 3 p.m. in the afternoon. You would have had the opportunity – because it was the first time there was actually a wheel – to make your remarks here in this House during the budget debate! [[Interim remark by Federal Minister Kurz]] [[Abg. Brosz: We wanted you to talk!]] That is why it is going to be discussed, and it will definitely be discussed, because that is immense and disrespectful to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14567	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14588	Mr President. Minister! High house! When discussing Visegrád and Europe, it is always good to look back in history: After World War II, what did the designers of Europe actually want to achieve? And who were the gentlemen who did that at the time? – These were practicing Catholics, Christians. They wanted a Christian Europe. That was arrested in thought at the time, it was not even necessary to pronounce and question it daily, but it was simply in the blood of these people who wanted it then – in the sense of the end of World War II and in the sense of lasting peace. What we are seeing today is a complete change in the inner attitude of European cultures – and I am deliberately saying, “Culture en”. The leading culture, which was created at the time – although this expression was not yet marked – was Christian and intelligible. What has happened today, in favour of a new, modernist assessment of everyday life and existence, is that one has exchanged this guiding culture for a liberalism, which is only a popularity, and for a tolerance that is just a cowardice. And here we stand as the western part of Europe! Those who live differently and have reactivated the spirit of Europe, that is, from a Christian and intellective background, due to their own very difficult history with the eastern block, these are the Visegrád states. This can be read in all statements, especially by Viktor Orbán. These are Heads of Government and Ministers, Foreign Ministers, who trust to say something that trusts to stand up and to say quite clearly: Europe is something other than what is now being imported into Europe! And I think it is really important for Austria to join this closed club, which, in my view, is not closed, but still closed, according to the Foreign Minister, and to make every effort to join together as Austria, with those people who trust in what is the matter. And today, I am also delighted to hear from Mr Cap – who has already made this sound – the indication of the anti-Christian signals that have already been put in place in a cultural struggle that has been burned. We must join forces with people, with governments who trust to carry out this conflict! And I don't mean that we have to take up the guns and shoot them, but we have to talk about what's at all a matter: What's going on in this country of Austria? What's going on in Germany? What happened to the border opening? – We know that this was a wrong policy. This has already been officially confirmed by the Minister towards Merkel. I think we need to position ourselves much more explicitly here with the Eastern states. And, once again, they have a reason why they appear so clearly: They have lived through a very difficult history, not only the world war, but they have had to go through socialism for decades. And they know what it's all about! They have developed something new, and they know where the trip could go! That is why we have to act with all our power and all the means at our disposal and work together with the East States, which are contouring and are making a contoured foreign policy towards nonsensical migration policy delusions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to repeat a quote from Otto von Habsburg, who said: “Europe will be Christian or it will not be.” – And there is nothing to add to it. [[Abg. Oils: Ui!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14639	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Opinion on the request from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 1270 of the supplements. Who agrees to this request? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[17:28:40]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution 1765/A(E) by Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues, on more money for UN organisations for projects to protect women from sexual violence (1271, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14684	We're coming to the 9th. Agenda item. First word message on this: Mrs Schimanek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14709	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The former military advisor to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon Patrick Cammaert once said that in times like this and in the current wars it is more dangerous to be a woman than a soldier. This statement alone speaks for itself and prepares me goose skin. For this reason, we women's representatives of all the parties represented in the House submitted a joint request for the protection of women and children on the run from war and persecution last March. And in order to underline this important concern by our women's speakers, I would like to reiterate the motion for a resolution on behalf of Mr Schimanek, Mr Hübner and other Members: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about here? Who do we need to protect these women from? – Before their own men, before the opposing soldiers or even, as in the case of South Sudan, before UN soldiers. However, rapes of women and children have now increased in Austria and in Germany in refugee homes, and I am particularly in a case of headache. This is the incident that recently happened in Berlin, where a six-year-old girl was raped by an asylum seeker. The asylum seekers who raped the girl were then taken from the police. And the father of the raped girl wanted to avenge himself, receive the family's honor, go on the rapist of his daughter, and was shot by the police. This girl now has to cope not only with the trauma of rape, but also with the death of the father, and that is really terrible for this little child. This is why I would like to stress once again my request which has already been made several times: In such cases, the offender must be postponed, and it must meet the full hardness of our law! In cases like this, there must be no misunderstood tolerance!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14804	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Schimanek is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14868	Next word: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14890	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak for the seers and In addition to the gallery, but also in front of the television screens, clarify the intention of this application. It is only about protecting women and children in war and crisis areas, in refugee camps, on the run from the most massive sexual violence. There are enough reports on this, there is information that can lead, in part, so dramatically in front of the eyes, with what brutality and how humanely there is being done against women that you can almost get bad when you read these things. Of course, any compassionate person who has this information will also ask himself the question: How can you support it? And with this request to the Foreign Minister, we ask that the organisations doing this work provide help for these women and children, such as UN Women, UNHCR and many others, are really supported. Mr Hübner was right in the last Awepa session to ask for less talk, less analysis and more to be done. And we're just doing it now. These organizations take over, for example, the creation of safe spaces for these women in refugee camps to protect them in this situation. Mr Schimanek has tabled this request, and I am very glad that, contrary to her behaviour in committee, you have not yet been present in the request – now... [[Abg. Schimanek: We are only voting in favour of our request – for this we are not!]] – But you have now made at least one common request. In principle, I think this is very positive. Because you also mentioned this asylum seekers: I think that, from the point of view of women's policy, there should be no distinction between women who are perhaps Austrian citizens, and women who have had the wrong to have come to the world in Afghanistan, Iraq, South Sudan. They also need our help, and that is why our request is also a very, very important one. [[As a result of this, the Commission has taken the view that, in the light of the information provided by the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the Court of Justice of the]] [[Abg. Schimanek: You know exactly what I am...! Misunderstanding tolerance in this case!]] They also mentioned the South Sudan. I repeatedly support the MiakWadang project in South Sudan, and last week I had a conversation with the project managers responsible for women and education at the MiakWadang project in South Sudan. She was down again this April or May. If one hears these descriptions of mass rapes, of women who have received part seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven children after rape, of mass murders, of heads that take place there when one hears about these horrors, then one, I think, really remains to take nothing but all these measures that help to reduce the suffering of these women. And I am very happy if we make at least one request with all six parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14954	Mrs Lintl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e14976	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speakers have said, this issue is particularly affecting us. It is about women who must live in Islam - shaped societies and obey their husbands. The Qur'an leaves no doubt about the subordination and disadvantage of the woman. This is all the more so when it comes to the perception of Muslims infidel women. Every abomination may then be done to them in the name of Islam. Especially the bestial persecution of Christian women is used as a means of war. Especially the Christian and Jesidic minorities in the Muslimly dominated countries are the poorest of the poor. There was a Syrian Orthodox monastery sister, Hatune Dogan, in Germany last week and an interview in „Baden online“, in which she confirmed this. And we all remember Nadia Murad – I think the Minister has met her – that brave Jesidian girl who survived the ISIS sex slavery. She has now received the Václav Havel Human Rights Prize and is on the road as Goodwill Ambassador for the UN. That means: Of course, international programmes must strengthen women. And we need to support these programmes because they really help women and also draw attention to the martyrdom they are going through. But in reality, this is just fighting a symptom, because the problem is much deeper: As long as Islam represents such an image of women, it is quite clear that religious Muslims are living this way of life in this image of women that gives their religion. Islam, however, is not only a religion, but also a social image, as we see in Saudi Arabia or in other Islamic countries, where the world is constantly being brought to mind, as far as faith, the Sharia are concerned. It is also clear that believing Muslims who, according to their religion, face difficulties with women in Austria. With us there are more and more hidden women – and these are not just tourists –, forced marriages, children’s marriages – of those of a nine-year-old we have heard recently –, girls who are hidden in school, women who are not allowed to be examined by doctors, fathers, the teachers of their children in school do not give their hands. Therefore, it is urgently necessary for Austrian authorities to be able to control which picture of women is spread here in the mosques. Various UN organizations do excellent work in the war regions and refugee camps to protect women and children. Therefore, the original request of the Greens to increase the annual contribution to UN Women and UNFPA is understandable. However, even if 75 percent of the ADA projects and ADA programmes are now marked with OECD Gender markers 1 and 2, as the Committee's amendment proposed by the government parties already asks me whether this really improves the situation of women and girls. We are in favour of doing everything we can to protect and support victims from sexual violence. But one thing certainly does not help: if we limit ourselves to gender policy with internal I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15021	Mrs Bayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15042	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Women are exposed to very different types of violence. This begins with physical assaults and reaches to the violation of their sexual integrity or also the massive violation of their dignity. When they flee, they are usually subjected to violence all the way to the escape, to supposedly safe refugee camps or shelters – certainly also in Austria, where the attacks often do not stop. There are, of course, a variety of ways and ways to best deal with this violence and how best to protect women, I would like to address two of them in concrete terms. First of all, it is important, in the sense of mainstreaming, to really consider the situation of women and the particular vulnerability of girls and women during the flight and at the end of their flight. This would be possible, for example, if the Austrian Development Agency makes calls and invites NGOs to apply for concrete work in refugee camps, as in the invitation to tender, to take account of the specific situation of women and girls. In reality, this can then be illustrated in such a way that, for example, the medical care of pregnant women is taken into account in the first place that psychological care is offered to women who have been raped or otherwise have been violated in their dignity or sexual integrity, or that there is simply a meaningful low-level access to health care facilities, since this is very good for women. But it would also be important, and we are still very much at the beginning – not only in Austria, but in general – to involve the work with violent men, to combat respectful mafia structures, which in part sell six-, seven-eight-, nine-, ten-year-old girls and do business with them. All this would be very important in the sense of mainstreaming. The second approach would be a stable, sustainable and reliable financial donation of those UN organizations that deal specifically with the situation of women and girls. On the one hand, UN Women, on the other hand UNICEF – the Children's Relief Service – but also UNFPA, the World Population Fund, all set a big focus on how to empower women and girls to do so, says that it can strengthen them in order to successfully reject unwanted sexual contacts or attacks from the outset. But even if I now think of UNFPA, which, for example, provide a Dignity Kit for women on the run, that is, a dignity kit in which – starting from tampons and bounds to soap and towels – things that help women to be able to live in the camps decently. In addition, all these institutions are also working against female genital mutilation, against structural violence on women and much more. If we are already discussing the budget: that UNFPA is no longer being taught in the draft budget, it is not exactly consistent with the proposals we are deciding on today, and I very much hope that it will still be possible in the course of the budget debate, since I think it is fundamental to do so, for example, UN organisations such as UNFPA also from Austria, and this is permanent. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15082	The next speaker is Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15103	Mr President. I would like to contribute once again to clarifying these various applications. The Greens have made a request and called on the Federal Government to force the fight against sexual violence against women on the run. That was the original request, and this original request also provided financial support for the relevant UN organisations. While the government parties have agreed to the content, they have said that, unfortunately, the financial support does not mean that they must be deleted again, and so to speak, they have supported a request on the Greens' request. Now there is a joint request from all the political groups, in which the Federal Government is called again very clearly to support the UN organisations. That is to say, there are a total of three applications – only to clarify this parliamentary procedure. All this, however, is due only to the fact that the government parties do not want to admit and do not want to say that financial support is necessary for UN and UN aid organisations. It is also easy to explain with the 2017 budget: no increase in annual contribution payments, neither for UNICEF, nor for the Children's Assistance Office, nor for UN Women, that is for those organisations that actually work to protect women, and - then to the remarks of my previous speaker colleague Bayr - for UNFPA, the organization that is there for children and women, and then, further to the Ministry of Life, World Food Programme 2017, again zero Euro. My rulers and women, to make a request to simply produce beautiful words, is far too little. Finally, it needs financial support for UN aid organisations and for the UN, otherwise it will be difficult to actually support women, children, but also local men. You finally have to see that.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15138	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15160	Mr President. Minister! High house! The funds for Austrian development cooperation will be increased by 17.1 million to € 92.5 million in 2017. I believe that this is a very big and important step, and I would like to congratulate Foreign Minister briefly on having managed to get it out of the Minister for Finance in the negotiations. I do not think it is the case, as Mr Hübner said today, that Austrian development cooperation is not effective because we are such a small country and could not achieve anything anyway. There was recently a study trip by the developmental spokespersons of all parties – the FPÖ was not in the process – to Moldova, and it showed how effectively the Austrian Development Agency works. We have attended a vocational school that has been founded, or a water treatment plant with which 1,500 households are supplied with water. It was also noted that all employees of this water treatment plant were women or at least 90 percent. This also shows that it is important that women get perspectives here and not, unfortunately, as happens very often, are dragged abroad under false promises and then landed in prostitution. Mr Windbüchler said that Austria does not contribute to UN projects. That's not right. Federal Minister Rupprechter recently transferred €5 million to the World Food Programme. This is a very important measure for people in Syria, especially for women, because 60 percent of the hungry people are women. In Syria, there are 13 million people who are hungry, and six million of them are children. Austrian development cooperation is really effective, and Austria sets signs. This resolution, which we are adopting today, is also a sign of women being persecuted who are raped and killed or enslaved. It is in the sense of human dignity that Austria is committed to this, and that is why I also believe that we should anchor the human dignity in the Austrian Constitution as a political goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15200	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 1271 on more money for UN organisations for projects to protect women from sexual violence. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by a majority. (E 176.) We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schimanek, Mr Bayr, Mr MA, Mr Lopatka, Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, Mr Mag. Vavrik, Donk, colleagues and colleagues on women and children on the run from war and persecution. Who agrees to this request? – This is unanimously accepted. (E 177.) [[17:54:12]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Stenographic Protocol of the Parliamentary Survey on "What is going to happen to Paris? – Discussion on the implementation of the Paris climate agreement in Austria” (III-286/1274 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15257	We're coming to 10. Agenda item. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15282	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We liberals know that in the coming years and decades there will be a great deal of effort to slow down the ongoing climate warming or to reduce it to an acceptable goal. We will also support all the measures that are reasonable and which are not only at the expense of the domestic economy or of those who cannot afford such modern technologies that are forced to continue to heat with oil or which are forced to continue commuting. If the World Climate Treaty of Paris is seen by many as a milestone in climate protection or as an epochal energy transition, there are other climate organizations that consider this to be very critical. I would just like to mention the Austrian environmental movement “System Change, not Climate Change!” with its twelve steps against climate change and climate justice. I believe that this criticism is quite appropriate, because, in fact, this Treaty does not contain any mandatory or acceptable sanctions for the reduction of emissions, no concrete measures and no exit from fossil energy. On the one hand, we want to create long-term liabilities to achieve the goal, and on the other hand we re-deliver them. I would just like to mention the possibility here that three years after the entry into force of the Treaty, a party can re-emerge without penalty. In the discussions, the Brexit was also not mentioned, as it looks like with the UK. Minister of Finance Schelling, in his budget speech yesterday, has already proposed that the medium-term impact on the EU budget, but also on Austria, may have. He also said that he was not prepared to close this resulting gap from domestic taxpayers' money. – His Word in God’s ear. In order to fulfil the climate agreement, the aim was to make available funds in the preparation of the next financial framework. What does that mean? A look at the debt calculator yesterday has shown that we have a debt of € 294 billion, rising strongly. With this we stand with the back to the wall, which means that the available means will certainly be very low. What this means, in turn, is that to finance these climate targets, one will want to resort to the taxpayer again and eventually the car driver will probably become the milk cow of the nation again. - I warn you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because we don't always need to be pattern boy or pattern student in advance and shoot right out of the specified goals. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We do not need that, because then we run the risk that instead of the objective that we encourage the economy to put it in modern technologies and bring it forward, weaken the economy and, at the same time, make our poor fellow human beings even poorer. We liberals are therefore opposed to such a location and economic policy, which goes only at the expense of the Austrians. On the other hand, what we want is an international closure and, now specifically, the use of the revenue from the mineral oil tax – I know you would like to use the mineral oil tax for transport infrastructure and for the expansion of public transport – so that people are not forced to emigrate from their rural areas. [[towards Greens]] Our answer to this energy transition is: Energy autarchy. We want to promote wind energy, we want to promote and expand solar power and hydropower. For this reason and in order to prevent further misunderstandings, we will not agree to this report either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15327	Mr Höfinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15349	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals, it could be said that there is a great deal of effort, but also very embarrassing, in such an essential, important issue for the future, so to speak around the hot whirl, to look for the excuses raised by the hair, why, as the only political group, the only party not to go along – and not only here in the House, but also in the European Parliament, your representatives voted against this Treaty. That is really unacceptable in this way. It's embarrassing; I can only say that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I said it in the debate on ratification, I say it today, and I say it in the future: The decision we have taken here was one of the most important of the last decades in this House, because this Treaty of Paris will bring tremendous changes in all areas of life. These are great challenges ahead of us, but we have to deal with the matter ambitiously. We must address them with our will, and we also have the opportunity to make opportunities out of these great challenges. [[Abg. Brunner: When?- Oh, my God!]] The Paris climate agreement means the complete exit from fossil energy supply with coal, oil or natural gas, and we need to compensate for this energy supply – for households, for transport, whether individual or public transport, for the economy, for industry. We now have great opportunities in Austria. Now I come to the poll to speak: This survey was an excellent mirror of what is in store for us in the future. We had representatives of industry, the economy here. We had visionaries on this issue here, and I think all the opinions that are being brought in here must be bundled in order to be able to formulate a concrete way. The great challenge in the coming years will be to create the balance, to achieve the objectives we need to achieve – we owe our children to our earth – but at the same time to secure and expand the economic location, to increase jobs and to secure the supply of renewable energies. The question is: How's it going? A roadmap is currently being drawn up – you, ladies and gentlemen, know that – which is being developed with experts and is now also being guided in the way you can achieve implementation. In the middle of the year, there will be the White Paper, and there will be a stakeholders process in which many experts will be able to contribute to this issue, so that we can really filter out the practical approaches from the theoretical approaches. Ladies and gentlemen, I know your impatience, I understand it in part. It is a great achievement that this treaty has really come about that it has been ratified that it can be realized, but it is a complex issue, which we have repeatedly noticed in the last discussions. Therefore, this is to be put in order, because there is a wealth of demands and wishes, but also calls from various sides. I compared this whole thing to a house building at the last committee meeting: Many of you – I know that – already want to start building. You see yourself already on the construction, you see the windows built in, you see yourself sitting on the roof chair, but without the basement being built, you can't do all these works. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] We need to plan this complex topic in order, and this planning phase is running, and then we can start to implement it. [[Further call of the Abg. Lugar.]] What's the target path? – It will look like we have to set the objectives defined in the Treaty for us in Austria as well. This will be done with the involvement of the experts. The second will be to define the periods in which these objectives can be implemented, and the third – because that will be necessary – to set up funding. I think it will work in this way and in this sequence. There's a lot of work waiting for us. I look forward to inviting you to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15403	Mr Feichtinger came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15425	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! It has been mentioned several times today: ==References== In November, not even a year after signature, we are experiencing the entry into force of the Paris Agreement. Those who remember how long it took for the Kyoto Protocol to enter into force can, I believe, be happy to see the entry into force of this agreement so quickly. As I have already mentioned in the budget debate today, the Federal Minister and his ministry's climate and energy strategy is to be completed in spring 2017 and then implemented. Mr Federal Minister, you and your ministry are very much required, I believe. However, we hope and expect that this will really come into effect. The opposition insists on measures, as Mr Höfinger has already said. I understand, it's not going fast enough. I would like to refer once again to my comments in the Committee, in which I noted that, on the one hand, the statements made by the experts in the course of the survey were It is clear that there is nothing left to wish for, but on the other hand it must also be the task and goal of policy to gain the understanding of people's concerns for climate protection. An example of this: Although the concept of decarbonization – and the necessary measures associated with it – is certainly common to many here in the house, a good part of the people outside is not known. They also do not know what consequences will be associated with their personal living environment. We need a wide-ranging discussion about this. It is also about industrial policy, economic policy and jobs. People need to understand what it means for the world climate, but also for them personally, when they were on the 24th. In December, the SUV will drive to the next supermarket to buy Kiwis from New Zealand or apples from Chile. Many measures will be necessary which will not take part in undivided consent, but better information and a deeper understanding of people's understanding of climate action will ensure a wider acceptance of what will be important and, above all, necessary. To Mr Kumpitsch another comment on the issue of wind energy, solar power, hydropower: I think we're very happy to get in touch with this. At the rest of the speech until this time, Shakespeare once again fits: ‘The rest is silence’.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15470	Next, Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15491	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! Today we are talking about the climate survey that took place in this House before the summer. She was entitled “What Is Coming to Paris? – Discussion on the implementation of the Paris climate agreement in Austria”. The answer to this question should be given here today. First of all, I would like to thank all those who participated in this survey. It took a lot of people time to spend a whole day here with us in the house, providing us with their expertise. I have found this really very enriching for the climate debate in our house. Thank you. I would like to start with a quote that fell at the beginning of the survey. It reads: “So we have to do something – doing nothing is not an option. (...) Implementation is called the foreign exchange – implementation at international level, implementation in Europe and implementation in Austria. (...) Parliament has a key role to play in solving the climate problem. The Federal Government is working out proposals, but here in the House the laws of tomorrow are discussed and formally passed. Here in the House, the course of the future is set.” – I ask you: Who was that? [[Calls:Shake! Shakespeare]] – Minister for the Environment Rupprechter! I agree with you that Parliament has a key role to play and that we should take decisions today – the result of the survey – but you, Mr Minister, say: “The Federal Government is working out proposals”. I ask you: Where are your proposals? A year has passed since the decision of the climate agreement, and there are no proposals from the Federal Government. First, you postponed our requests, they said: Let's wait for the survey before we decide something! This is now over; now the climate strategy is the excuse. If I hear your interviews or even the speeches of the Minister of Finance or your speech today, I somehow have the feeling, the motto or the question you are being led by: How many times do I have to say the word climate and energy strategy, so that no one knows nothing about it? Her climate strategy is a single mistake. I quote Professor Steininger from the survey who said: “In the light of the current Green Paper on an integrated climate and energy strategy, I regret to say that the issues there are still miles away from leading us to these opportunities.” What the climate agreement means has also clearly emerged from the survey. Professor Nakicenovic pointed out that we must bring emissions to zero by 2050 at the latest by 2070 worldwide. For us in Austria, this means that we need to convert the way we live, how we produce, how we shape our mobility, into a renewable system, and that until 2050. This requires large framework conditions. We should set the framework for this today. I have tabled a motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Christiane Brunner, colleagues on: Enforce Paris Climate Treaty – Novelling Climate Change Act, one. The application has been distributed to you. The issue is that the Climate Change Act is to meet the objectives of the Paris Treaty. But it is not just about the framework, it is also about the measures. For this we have received some suggestions in the survey, I now quote some: Georg Rebernig, Managing Director of the Federal Environment Agency, noted: “For the 2030 objectives, [...] we do not deal with the existing and the additional, especially the additional action scenario.” – That is, we need action, we need to do more. Dr. Heinz Kopetz, who is known to you, I think, has told us: ‘What Austria has reached: As we debated here, emissions rose by 3 percent in the last year.” – So it says quite clearly: We don't have time to debate forever. As we debate, Austria's greenhouse gas balance goes in the wrong direction. We have to act. On the question of what everything needs to be worked out before we have to do something: One point that certainly no longer needs strategy is to ecologize the tax system. I quote university professor Dr. Sigrid Stagl from the Vienna University of Economics, she says: “An ecological tax reform is long overdue. I don't know anyone at the university anymore who's researching; academically, the subject is dead. We know how to do it. It has to be implemented simply. Making the resources more expensive and making work cheaper is a no-brainer from an academic point of view. Please, do it!" – So that means: We don't need a strategy here, we just have to do it. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter:... goes without it!]] We need a strategy, I agree with you, but to decide whether I make an ecological tax reform, I do not need a strategy to do so. I quote Mrs. Professor Dr. Helga Kromp-Colum from the University of Soil Culture, who said quite clearly here: “From science you get clear, clear signals. [...] On the one hand, it has jointly prepared the progress report in voluntary, unpaid work [...]’. – Thank you to all Austrian climate scientists! That's just the summary. We have also dealt with this report in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection with a hearing. It is a very valuable basis from which we should draw our conclusions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The signal that comes from this means: What we've done so far is not enough. We still have 14 years to become emission-free. We can't talk about what we might do, we just have to do it. That is why I am bringing forward a motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Christiane Brunner, colleagues on: Implementation of the Paris climate agreement – emergency measures for Austria, one. It is about implementing essential measures in different areas. I propose a further motion for a resolution by the honourable Member. Christiane Brunner, colleagues on: Implementation of the Paris climate agreement – remove climate-damaging subsidies. I'm excited if you're just talking about the hot bitch or if you're acting. Another important issue is the topic of eco electricity. We face a situation where biogas plants are blocking the fact that windwheels cannot be built, that companies say if politics is not acting now, we have to fire workers. I don't think that can be in our sense. We need a revision of the eco electricity law. We've been ready for this for a year and a half, and haven't gotten anything from you. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I warn that climate protection is always played against economic interests and against social interests. I wonder where your social competence and your economic competence remain, which you have apparently left in the last century. Climate protection is the project for this century. It's the chance we can use, we just need to recognize it. Everyone and everyone in Austria can make a contribution to the positive design of our future. I hope you will end your blockade today so that we can answer the question today: What's going to Paris? The clear result of this survey was: This house has to act. So we're acting! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e15592	All four motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Brunner are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The four applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16014	The next item is the speech by Mr Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16035	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The question is what we are doing against climate change. We have already discussed this morning at the environmental budget in the very short term, I was also very hard in criticism. I don't want to be that hard in the afternoon. But I've been thinking about it. So I have to say honestly, I have had the feeling with some other minister or the minister in the past that they can't do as they should. But I would not put this under Mr Rupprechter, because I know that he has a very good reputation, a high reputation in the field of environmental and agricultural policy internationally. I also know that you, Minister, made a central contribution to the European Union in December of last year in Paris. But you just haven't done anything since. I am sorry, but it has not been left of the many words made in Paris last year. There are a whole series of things that don't fit together at all. I would now like to refer to the comments made by Mr Höfinger. Col. Höfinger uses the example: We have hired an architect, now there is a plan for a house, and then we build the house “Fight Against Climate Change”; there is a large stakeholders process, and next year in summer it is so far, that we can get started with a strategy. The fact is, he forgets to invite half the inhabitants of the House, namely those groups in Parliament who have been elected by the population but are not involved in the Stakeholder process. SPÖ and ÖVP, plus science, plus NGOs – this is the Stakeholder process, but it is neither the Greens nor the NEOS nor the Freeman or the Stronach team involved in any form. [[Abg. Brunner: I've already been involved!]] Next point: We wait – after we say we sign the treaty – once a year for the follow-up conference; we wait for us to sign. We then say we do this – again after the next conference and the signing – a year later. Mr Feichtinger says that next year, from spring, you have said that; the ÖVP says from summer on, it will actually go into action. The measures will not come next year because they will not be found in the budget. Policy is set out in the budget, but that means that these measures will not take place in 2017. It was very entertaining in the survey because science has told us that there is no discussion at all about what measures need to be taken. They're all known. There is no discourse: Is there climate change, yes or no? Does he meet Austria, yes or no? That's defined. Even if there is a warming of only 2 degrees worldwide, that means 4 degrees for Austria. This means for Salzburg, for Tyrol, for Vorarlberg, for Upper Austria, for the Salzkammergut and for Upper Carinthia munitions, so that the populations have to settle because there are no longer habitats inhabitable there. This means that the mountain farmers will lose a lot of land, that they will have to pay much more to insurance because they have much more damage. – All of this happens even if we reach our goals. But this also means that we already have to take countermeasures. The government has done nothing in the last one and a half years, zero, not a single request. In the tax reform field, there was not even a discussion about an eco-social reform. There are delicate flowers in the traffic area, which will then be killed again, where one speaks of electromobility, but which is far too little, that is only a sub-area. The whole area is not addressed at all in any form, zero, no single request. There was no single step in each plenary session, but zero requests, zero legal measures. The question is: Who's responsible? – First of all, the ministry that presides over there; and there were only words, nothing. It's enough! There is something to be done, and Parliament is not even involved. The last point, however, does not seem less important to me: If it's not rocket science, what you have to do now – because we take a small number of measures that we need to make bigger – what do the others do? Norway has taken comprehensive decisions on how to get rid of emissions through CO2-free individual and heavy transport, and has also taken significant steps for shipping and aviation. With regard to the aviation sector: Airbus develops aircraft that is supposed to be very noisy and almost emission-free in 15 to 20 years. The economy is so far in many areas – not yet in steel production, we know, but in many areas it is – only politics is not. Politics in Europe is so far, politics in Norway is so far, politics in Germany is so far, but we in Austria do nothing, neither for the rural population nor for the mountain farmers, nor for the economy, we fail in full length. With “we” I mean the Federal Government! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16072	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16101	The call was appropriate, Mr. Rädler! It's not enough for this frying fat dome, you need a backpack and a suitcase to take with you only a small selection of these products that are connected with senseless transports! [[A board with a picture of a fully loaded container vessel and a husk filled with food with the label ‘Frittier fat semi-liquid’ placed on the speaker’]] Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! After work done, I believe, especially in the evening, the citizens, when they have time, have the right to information from us here in this House. We discuss a very important contribution: What has become of the Paris climate and environmental objectives? We always have great climate meetings, great surveys, great goals are presented and taken into consideration, but in reality – and that has already been said by many previous speakers – we are on the spot. Actually, I wanted to set a burning tomb on the right side – not only in view of the Advent time that is coming upon us, when the shelves are full again with candles, tea lights and tomblights, but also because they are all about palm oil here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hoefinger.]] – Yes, Mr Höfinger, you will only have beeswax in Lower Austria. Let us look at this hurricane in Haiti, where there are a thousand deaths and a terrible national economic damage! Ladies and gentlemen, what are we closing our eyes for? Are we not able to estimate what happens if we do nothing? It is already happening all over the world – and we red every day, every hour 1,000 hectares of rainforest. 1,000 acres of rain forest! We cut away this earth, this planet on which we live, the lungs. We have great transports. This is one of these 62 000 ships that pass through the oceans without tax and then bring everything that substitutes and replaces our natural food, our healthy food. [[on the panel on the speaker's desk]] This is of course sold as a regional, excellent, healthy frying and frying fat, so I am not angry with colleagues Obernosterer when he tells me that the hotel industry is buying everything within 30 km. [[on the bulwark brought by him]] – Yes, there it is offered by the fresh supplier! The whole bubble is full of a small selection of products, otherwise we would have to get in there with the truck – and then there are these fatal effects that we have, also on health! This stuff – in order to be precise, not to say food – is not only a burden on the environment, the climate, but also especially on the health of consumers. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] This is 18 times as difficult to digest as healthy, regional butter and pig fat. In any case, as I believe, the economic damage and human suffering are very essential. I can say something about the eco electricity law and the lack of measures, because it was referred to by the previous speakers. These biogas plants, where they are used for the production of gas food and feed, are a misdevelopment. These biogas plants, which are operated with fertilisers of animals and with used oils, are also a misdevelopment. However, it is very important what is happening in the biomass sector at the hacks. Mr President, these are often shut down with a lot of tax money, big hacking heaters. I am thinking of Energie AG Oberösterreich, I am thinking again of this destroyed plant at FACC in Ried or of that at the food producer Spitz, which will then be stopped and replaced, partly by nuclear power or by gas from Russia and several other distant countries. We're getting away from that all the time. I compare this with advertising in the food and food industry: The more nature and proximity are applied there, the more we get away from reality, from reality. That is why I am reminded of the expert who has already been quoted by Mr Brunner, climate researcher Kromp-Colb, and I am also reminded of a contribution by the former Green Member Monika Langthaler. Another, an expensive facet of this development is: As a result of this development, two million climate and economic refugees are on their way because they have no opportunity on the ground because they have to flee from these climate disasters, from new droughts, from these weather influences and, of course, from the direction of food, towards the possibility of life. This will cost us no longer to carry! That's why: To implement the objectives quickly, Mr Minister, regionalize, and then we have control possibilities again!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16189	Mr Steinbichler, the motion for a resolution! Let's do this right now! [[Abg. Steinbichler: My God! Mr Rädler had almost taken me away from the motion for a resolution!]] [[Abg. Diesner-Wais: He's not here!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: Yes, he has already been there!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16249	Thank you, Mr President. We would like to make the following request on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] We justify this by: “In the case of imported goods, 11 times more energy is consumed, 11 times more CO2 is emitted and 28 times as much sulphur dioxide is consumed as in domestic products.” We're asking for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16300	The motion tabled by Mr Steinbichler is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16360	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16382	Mr President. High house! We are discussing the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which was presented here in the House on 23 February. It has taken place in June. I was there myself and must say that I perceived this survey as very positive, very constructive and as a very rich in expertise. I must say that we do not differ far from each other in the basic assessment of the direction in which we have to go; and I believe that a large majority here in the House also think. [[Abg. Brunner: But the question is, When is it done?]] I believe that climate change is one of the greatest challenges of this century, with the exception of a few less, here in the House, except dispute. The fact that we have made a historic agreement with the Paris Convention, with the World Climate Agreement, that we have managed to advance ratification and entry into force within a very short time is also due to the House. The ratification process, which normally lasts over the two years for an international agreement, has taken us away in less than half a year. I think we can be a little proud of that. I say this because, unfortunately, Mr Bernhard, who is not here now, meant that nothing had happened. Austria has done a great deal here, namely the ratification and the entry into force of the global climate agreement. We have also managed to be the third EU member country to adopt the ratification. We were therefore also front runners and were also a driving force, for example, at the extraordinary Environment Council on 30 October. September, so that the European Union could adopt a unanimous decision allowing the Union to adopt the ratification in the rapid procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard]] This established the basis for the timely ratification by the Union and also by the Member States such as Austria, which have already ratified it at 7. In October, the deposit of the instrument of ratification was possible. There we were driving power, and I think we can point to that with pride. We, the European Union, and we, Austria, have been the trigger for the entry into force, for the overrun of the threshold; you know that very well, so the accusation that we have remained inactive, I simply do not leave it on Austria or on the government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard.]] It will also be true that we will be sitting at COP 22 in Marrakech as an active party at the negotiating table of the first Contracting States Conference; and I think that is a considerable achievement that we have done there. My conviction is that the Paris World Climate Treaty has been widely adopted and that implementation is clear that it is clear what direction we must go, namely towards decarbonisation of our social systems, in particular energy and mobility systems. That's incontrovertible. It is also far indisputable in which direction this must go. The way is clear. We need active climate change policies, and we need climate change adaptation strategies. In view of the fact that we are setting up an integrated climate and energy strategy in a broad dialogue process, I understand, I must honestly say that the criticism of the Greens is not entirely and not the criticism of NEOS, who have always expressed their support for such process-related development with the broad involvement of all stakeholders. [[Abg. Brunner: For the open questions!]] That's where you talk a little bit about your own ideology. So we are doing this, we are binding widely, and we will create an integrated climate and energy strategy on a broad consensus basis. It is clear that we need an energy turnaround that the renewables focus on. In this respect, we are one in Europe with 34 per cent share of renewables, with 78 per cent in electricity. By 2030 we will generate 100 percent of the electricity in Austria from renewables, so we can already point to performance. As Elvis has already been quoted several times today: Whoever believes that the energy transition can be achieved without solid biomass, is absolutely determined on the wood road. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Is that an Elvis quote?]] We have 78 percent renewable in Austria, 50 percent of which is biomass. [[Abg. Brunner: For 30 years!]] Dear friends, I repeat it: Anyone who believes that the energy transition can strengthen and force renewables without biomass is on the way to wood. [[New call of the abg. Brunner.]] I quote Elvis: Return to Sender! You heard it, didn't you? Return to Sender! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Krainer and Mr Wittmann.]] Dear friends, that we need an eco-strom novel, a large novel to strengthen the renewable, to strengthen biomass, the solid biomass, even biogas, which is probably completely undisputed. Dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the need for a mobility turnaround, that we have to put much more emphasis on e-mobility, I am really on a common path with Jörg Leichtfried. We will present to you this year our support package for strengthening e-mobility. One thing has already been said, Mrs Brunner: A 100 million € package for strengthening renewables, for e-mobility and for thermal renovation, which will not even be able to badden the greens. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16513	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Big. - Please. [[Abg. Krainer: But “Return to Sender” is because the sender is gone! Does that mean you're leaving? I don't have the picture completely right now...!]] Mr Krainer! Instead of reporting, which never takes place before, we will perhaps introduce something like a follow-up, and perhaps we need to discuss this in the President. [[Abg. Krainer: If you wish, I will gladly make myself available!]] – No, don’t wish that was just my interpretation of your activity. Please, Mr Groiß.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16560	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Climate change does not end at the state border, it does not end at the coast, it does not end with the political systems, so I do not find the attitude of the FPÖ, which wants an island solution for Austria, particularly appropriate. It is precisely this international conclusion through the Paris Treaty that it is necessary to advance this ecological objective. Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for being a pioneer in the ratification process, that we have driven forward the fact that Austria has been there since the beginning. We Austrians have always been in the forefront in environmental technology and remain it. [[Abg. Brunner: Ratification means commitment to action!]] - Right! [[Further calls at Greens and Team Stronach.]] This climate target is now set for us, we have agreed. It is part of the overall objective, namely the ecological, economic and social objectives. [[Abg. Lugar: Where are the measures?]] [[Abg. Lugar: Say something!]] It's one of many goals, it's got to be classified there. [[Abg. Lugar: Not the goals, measures?]] – Then come out and talk, then you can tell your actions! We must balance the objectives, as well as the quality of life, as economic growth belongs to that of self-sufficiency, social balance, poverty reduction and so on. [[Abg. Lugar: We all know that! Where are the measures?]] Through this Treaty, which we have now ratified and which we have agreed to, we, as parliamentarians, as Members of Parliament, are responsible for seeing whether these laws are going in the right direction in the individual laws. We're talking about what's in the pipeline, we're talking about eco electricity law, we're talking about the budget law, we're talking about the budget accompanying law, where there are always some points on this issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] The summary will be the climate objective, the climate strategy of the Federal Minister. We also need to do a lot of things that don't cost money. It may also be that we simply allow something to continue working on civil participation, so that we change our legal systems in such a way that we may not focus on consumer protection, but on climate protection in order to implement certain points. [[Abg. Lugar: Really, what allow?]] We are now required for many of these points. As Members of Parliament, we must demand that the climate objective, an important point, be implemented one of many points. If we do this together, we will continue to do so with these climate objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16673	Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16695	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria was one of the first countries to ratify the Paris Convention. What is the objective of this Treaty? – Limiting global warming to significantly below 2 degrees Celsius above the pre-industrial level, i.e. a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. For Austria, the saving target is minus 36 percent by 2030. How can you achieve this goal? – In general, by increasing energy efficiency and by increasing renewable energy. In the following, I take concrete action: We know that traffic costs account for 45 percent of the total environmental pollution. How can we deal with this in concrete terms? – Through common alternatives, such as electromobility. I'm thinking of e-carsharing models and the like. Experts attest to electromobility a high potential. We all know that the changeover is slow and slow, not least due to high purchase costs and technically not mature details – I am thinking of weak batteries. Mr Bernhard has already mentioned that Norway is a show country on this issue. Let me address a consideration of our Federal Chancellor Christian Kern: An increase in eco-taxes, in particular taxes on fossil energies, would provide decisive incentives to switch to alternative energy sources. The SPÖ looks at distribution and tax justice and takes into account local circumstances. I am speaking specifically to jobs, Mrs Brunner, which is the social competence of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Brunner: Then submit a measure!]] The path towards renewable energies is promising. This shows, for example, the following number: In 2015, electricity production by wind power and photovoltaics increased by 25 percent. And let us remember today's general debate on the budget: Federal Chancellor Christian Kern has addressed an innovation of eco electricity promotion – you are cordially invited to work on it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: For a year and a half we are waiting for you to agree in your coalition! That's inconceivable!]] – You are still invited to cooperate. It makes sense to use incentives precisely. According to experts, an energy transition can be implemented by 2050. This is an ambitious goal and concerns change in several sectors. I would like to speak once again about mobility, but also about the production sector: What do we need to do an energy turnaround? - We need innovations. In other words, it makes sense to invest specifically in energy research and generally in research. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The waiting snake for wind power is already hundreds of kilometers long!]] It also has positive effects on the workplace situation when investing in research, Mrs Brunner! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is possible to achieve the objectives of climate change with cross-border discussion and action-making at both national and European level. Austria will be actively involved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16770	Next, Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16791	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, you can do two things very well: First of all, you can celebrate well. For a year now you have been celebrating the signature under the climate agreement. And I will respect you, you have been an engine for this climate agreement to come about (a) and (b) have been quickly ratified. [[Abg. Brunner: Not just him!]] But it is too little to celebrate just the setting of a signature, while the climate agreement is on the table and everyone knows what to do! The second thing you can do – great respect – is to have organised the climate survey under pressure from the greens. We have always said: Mr. Minister, do something! To catch the pressure, you said: Let's make a survey! You have organized these in Windeseile and very competent. We were all sitting there, and the experts said in the core: It's all known, it's all clear, science has said everything, up to what an eco-social tax reform would have to look like. And now you're saying, We need to develop a climate and energy strategy! And colleague Höfinger comes with the picture: We want to build a house, and we need a plan for that. Only, who are the planners? - That's us here! We need to make the laws, say the plan that says how to implement the Paris climate agreement. And while you are not willing to do something, block planning offices for windwheels and renewable energies. We are losing the connection to Europe because you are not ready or have too little power, or whatever, to make sure that something goes on on this issue. Now to the liberals: Mr Kumpitsch says: We liberals are for climate protection, but the most important climate agreement does not support it. You say: We are in favour of renewable energies, but it must not change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kumpitsch.]] No one can feel anything: The economy must not feel anything, the individual must not feel anything. That's not how it's going. What's ahead of us is a huge revolution. We have experienced the transition from the coal age to the oil age, and this must end. We are approaching the age of renewable energy. And what is in “Laudato si” is a single green – I say – climate protection programme, an eco-social programme. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Eco-social!]] And I wonder, Minister – you know exactly what that means: What are the measures behind this? Now I'm talking as a traffic speaker: Yesterday I experienced a Finance Minister, who suddenly embarked on the ÖBB, although the ÖBB are the largest electric mobility provider in Austria. We all know that the railway needs to play a much greater role in the future than it does today. That means we need a lot of investment in the railways so that this environmentally friendly mobility can offer. And today the match is again: Because of the ÖBB, they cut almost the skulls and accuse each other of things. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not how we move on. Mr Minister, it is up to you to come to the blessed action from the phase of blessed speech, because your political claim is: As Minister Rupprechter, I want to be blessed! We Greens are waiting for us to applaud if you do, but please, Minister, start at last! The celebration of a signature that has been available for a year is too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16847	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16868	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today it is a little the day of the quotations, and I can get in with a quote from Mr. Federal Minister Rupprechter: [[Abg. New builder: Frank Sinatra is still missing! Bob Dylan would be good too!]] The climate agreement is a historic agreement and “the start of an ambitious global climate policy”. – It’s a start, but not for national quick shots. It is a start when it comes to cooperation and social matters, because the people who will be concerned with our actions will also benefit from them. The aim is to launch more international economic cooperation, more fair global trade and more development cooperation. It will be a more intensive cooperation when we talk about ecology and it is about the care and preservation of our habitats. I would like to resist the views and opinions of the opposition that we are pioneers in Europe and Austria when it comes to efficiency, economy and renewable energy sources. [[Abg. Lugar: Yes, where?]] And, Mrs Brunner, we have also found a great many of our colleagues at European level when it comes to getting out of fossil energy and nuclear energy. [[Abg. Brunner: There is an oil heating ban in Denmark!]] Let me give you some thought to the renewable energy sources, especially to the biomass: The ÖVP and especially the Farmers' Federation support the wind energy, photovoltaics, solar thermal energy to generate electricity and heat. Such an energy supply of a country or continent will always be an energy mix, which has its reasons in price and technical feasibility. For this reason, we also need stabilizing elements, which is why we say yes to biomass and hydropower. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] I can remind the Greens of their dubious role – with the best greetings of President Auer – that they have played in connection with the construction of the hydroelectric power plant in Lambach. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Auer: Lambach you have blocked!]] The hydropower is already relatively well developed, but at biomass we still have air up, because there are situations in which no sun shines and no wind blows, not even, Mrs Colleague, in Burgenland. [[Abg. Brunner: Thanks for the Enlightenment!]] For this reason, we need the use of biomass and biogas, which is being discussed very controversially in these days. I hope that we will bring together something in this direction when it comes to generating electricity and heat. We clearly say no to the use of fossil energies and also to nuclear power. That is why I do not fully understand the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. He called into question the use of biomass in the morning, so to speak, but if one rejects biomass, one indirectly supports the nuclear power and fossilobby. Finally, I wish Mr Bernhard and Mr Pirklhuber and Mrs Brunner a little more confidence and more attention. I conclude with a quote from our dear colleague Elli Köstinger from the EU Parliament: “The fossil age is over. The energy future is starting now and we will be the pioneers of this energy transition.” – Thank you very much and everything good. [[Abg. Steinbichler: That won't happen!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e16983	Mrs Becher's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17007	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A few months ago, in this House, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, spoke to us as an international guest, and he also drew attention to the urgency of climate protection and underlined the vehement. Now I'm asking: What role does housing play on the road to net zero emissions? Of course, a number of measures have already been taken, and the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption has grown. But, of course, a number of measures are also necessary to achieve the objective, and this must be very, very quickly in the coming years. I would also like to mention that Austria is a global player in the development of environmentally friendly technologies, for example in heating systems, from photovoltaics to construction and insulation materials. Over the last ten years, more than 3,000 new patents have been granted in the field of renewable energy in Austria. In my constituency, in the Danube City, in the 22nd century. District, the future of living has already begun, namely in the sea town. This is a district where a total of 20,000 people will live when it is finished. This is the city of short ways where living, working and leisure are very close together, where you can enjoy all of this in one, save people time and save the environment avoidable loads. There are a number of research facilities there for energy consumption, for new building materials up to a house, a building that aspern IQ, which is a plus energy house and produces more energy than it consumes. I think this is an example of the future and of how it can go. At the survey, Dr. Prüsch from the Graz Environment Office brought one point to the point; he said: “Not everything is calculated what is being done here. This is the [...] low energy price [...].’ – This is a very important point. There are two factors that are currently resisting more climate-friendly private housing: This is, on the one hand, the low interest rate policy of the European Central Bank, which will make freely funded housing more attractive to many, and, of course, it will comply with much less measures and requirements, and on the other hand, it is the historically low energy prices, where many do not invest in energy-saving measures. There, I think there's only one answer, and this one says: Keep a course!, because low interest rates and low energy prices also have an expiry date. Those who are free to finance today under the impression of these favourable prices, build them cheaper, do so with much less sustainability. Finally, I would like to say: If it is true that all local housing providers demand a relaxation of the conditions in the negotiations on Article 15a – that would be all energy-saving measures in this area, in the housing sector that are then supported by the countries in the context of housing development – then my answer is limited to a clear no, that is not possible from my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17050	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17073	Minister! High house! Front way – Mr. Strasser, not on the phone, but listen briefly! – on the subject of confidence and attention: I am a member of the Civil Energy Association Traunviertel, and in two years we have financed 25 municipal photovoltaic plants through the participation of citizens in our region. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] – Yes, my colleague, so it is. These are concrete projects that we actively support, together with the citizens, of course also with regional policy, because I am also a member of the Executive Board of the Regional Forum Steyr-Kirchdorf in the Traunviertel. And we have also started a new pilot project, because there are in five municipalities electric cars on a car-sharing basis. That is what I wanted to say on the subject of activity and opportunities for Members to implement in their constituencies. However, we are waiting in Parliament for legislative measures, for real implementation of the climate agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, we did not have a single government proposal on the last Environment Committee, if I remember correctly. We did not get anything to implement, after the survey there was no request from the government, not even a resolution. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is the case in all committees!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not continue to solve the problems at this speed. I would also like to say something about the words of the Federal Minister, because I did not understand something, or I only partially understood it: If you are heading toward “return to transmitter” and are defending biomass, I would like to point out that you have partners here in the house. As far as biomass is concerned, we will always be ready to talk, Mr Minister, but it will be about how, and that it will finally be implemented and the eco electricity law will finally be newelled. This is the challenge of our time. I think: One of the pioneers of the solar revolution, Hermann Scheer – whom I have met personally, who unfortunately has already passed away – has really dreamed about decades, and the German energy turnaround has started an energy turnaround in Europe – and now there are hesitant, tendering things against each other, it is made small money as it were! Of course, we need a transformation that is social, Minister. We need a process of the energy turnaround that takes people away. Therefore, we are for participative processes, for a broad citizen participation, but not for standstill. You can't do that, and you can't always make an announcement after another, and nothing happens. The experts also said quite clearly in the survey, Professor Nakicenovic, for example: Radical changes are necessary and possible. – It is possible, Minister of State! We – Mr Brunner has prepared this excellently – have the opportunity to decide on four requests here in plenary session; four requests that make the offer to really get in to work out work programmes. That's not a detailed work programme yet, but it's a direction. We finally need a direction in climate policy, in order to implement things. No more cents for fossil energies, no more tax money, no more promotions for a technology that is outdated – today and not over tomorrow, just because some country leaders or any company feel raised to the toes. That's not how it is, Minister! I expect you to have active policies in the Federal Government. You also have to speak a clear word with your fellow party colleague Mitterlehner when it comes to implementing and implementing the priority for renewable energies – and a priority for fossil energies – and only then will we be able to implement decarbonisation. One more word: Have they ever considered that we also have a state participation in the OMV? – 28 percent belong to the Republic. What are we doing with this group? How do we convert this into a renewable energy group? This is in both directions, ladies and gentlemen – also to the trade union an appeal: Think about it! The former Chairman of the Board of Management Ruttenstorfer tried very clearly at the time. He said that we also need a new orientation for the OMV, and in ten years we need to move forward renewable energies. These are projects, Minister! [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am finally expecting proposals and not just a policy of announcement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17119	Mrs Diesner-Wais is next spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17140	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! By my colleague Hermann Gahr, the best greetings to the Tyrolean Forest Club. You are right in this debate, because it is about bioenergy in which you are active. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I think we all agree that it was a successful survey – about which we are still discussing today. Now, finally, there is the realization that the climate change caused by humans and their consequences endanger the lives of all of us worldwide. The signing of the World Climate Agreement has given clear signs: A historic breakthrough in climate negotiations has happened, all states have recognized that one can only do something through joint action. In the example of China and the USA, we see that consciousness has changed. The climate agreement shows that it is simply necessary – we have heard this very often today –: The burning of coal, oil and gas must end. The EU states are also well aware of this, because otherwise we can achieve the goal of coming under 2 degrees of global warming within 30 years and the global objective of net zero greenhouse emissions from 2050 – until, excuse me! – not reachable by 2050. [[Abg. Brunner: Don't go! See you!]] A gradual exit is an essential must, so that the coal cycle closes again. We are in a good starting position in Austria. 78 percent of the electricity we already generate from renewable energy, of which 50 percent is biomass. [[Abg. Brunner: All the less understandable that nothing happens!]] In Lower Austria, it is even 100 percent that we reach. Since 2005, economic growth has been successfully decoupled from energy consumption. I would like to draw particular attention now to the role of our agriculture and our farmers, because they feed the population. They have also been highlighted separately in Paris, because they operate in short circuits and thus make a valuable contribution to improving the CO2 balance. Of course, we have the advantage that we have a good forest equipment and an efficient agriculture and forestry with high competence and, of course, our richness in water. Therefore, we are privileged to be a real pioneer in the energy transition. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: That's right!]] I would also like to draw particular attention to bioenergy now, because the raw material-dependent plants have, of course, been affected by the fact that tariff promotion is under way. If we want wind energy and photovoltaics, we also need a rule energy. In order for this to happen, a basic burden must be there, and bioenergy plays a crucial role. For more than two years, negotiations have been being conducted for a successor tariff, there is already a completed draft. I say it is a lot of farms where families are very threatened in their existence. There's a need for action. For the wind energy, you have already mentioned it, the eligibility will fail after three years if no positive notice has been made until then. It can't be either! So the time is when fossil generators such as coal and nuclear energy have to disappear from the power plant portfolio. The small ecostromnovelle has to be done, it has to happen this year. Since, of course, I ask all those who today have said that they are helping to actually help, and our coalition partner, I ask him to sign. [[Abg. Glavisch-Piesczek: Yes!]] I think we have to use the backwind of Paris consistently now. In Austria, we have a lot of know-how in environmental technology, in renewable energy, and great opportunities for climate protection to generate employment and value added effects. This is also very often addressed by you, and that is so. I think we must take the future-oriented opportunity and bring about the energy transition in the sense of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17226	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Unterrainer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17247	Ladies and gentlemen, we started today in the morning with a fireworks of quotations, at pictures in the budget debate. There was the talk of the Austro-Schäuble, of which with the black zero, by the Swabian housewife with beard, Shakespeare was quoted – and adapted – including: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] ‘Words do not pay any debt’. I would like to follow this up and continue with: Not only do words pay no debt, but they also do not save the world or our climate, because it requires action. This brings me to the issue that we have on the table today, namely the Paris climate agreement. Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mein Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! In climate change, the signs are on storm. The last 35 years have brought with them the hottest 20 years since the start of the record. The year 2015 has broken all the records. The global sea level has already risen by 17 centimetres, with us the alpine glaciers shrink to snowfields. The World Climate Conference in Paris was a start and a sign that the world is aware of the immense threat from climate warming – not less, but no more. However, climate protection itself and the necessary measures are with the individual states, that is, with ourselves. It will not help us to point our fingers at the others. We are obliged to move forward with good example. That is what you, Minister Rupprechter, are always saying. For me as a tourist, there are some interesting but also controversial developments in this context. Climate change has been affecting us in Austria for years, and the warm winters have put snow security in many ski resorts at great risk. Only this week the ski area at Arlberg was merged, and 40 to 50 million € will be invested. At the same time, however, the Vorarlberg state government says in a press release that it is preparing to deal with global warming of over 4.5 degrees. One sees very clearly the interests and views drift far apart. If, for example, the Chamber of Commerce believes that the objectives of the climate agreement are harmful to the location, then I have to take a very firm no. That's a mistake! Let me refer to President Obama: The next generations will measure us by what we are now implementing. The restriction of fossil fuels is not an obstacle to economic growth, economic growth and the restriction of fossil fuels are not found to be contrary. However, I would also like to say that climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. In this regard, I would like to see Austrian national economists and politician Joseph Schumpeter, one of the greatest and most outstanding economists of the 20th century. 19th century, quotations: “The Creatoric destruction (also creative destruction, engl. creative destruction) is a term from the macro-economics, whose core statement is: Each economic development (in the sense of not just quantitative development) builds on the process of creation and/or creation. creative destruction. By recombining production factors that are successfully implemented, old structures are suppressed and eventually destroyed. The destruction is therefore necessary – and not a system error – so that reorganisation can take place.” Economically, this means: It focuses primarily on soil and the environment, on labour and capital, distribution justice and above all on knowledge and technological renewal. These are the economic factors that Schumpeter means. Knowledge is the fuel of the future, but all points are in common that they must be in harmony with each other. If 1 percent of the population dwells on wealth and destroys the environment, something cannot vote and cannot be in the sense of the common. In order to bring about global change, we need to become active locally. One thing has to be clear to us: Europe is still far from implementing climate objectives, both in terms of volume of expansion and in terms of political objectives and in terms of technology. I want – and this is really a goal of mine – that small Austria is moving forward with a good example. But that also means: We need a clear analysis with the appropriate implementation plan. After that, the sleeves must be curled up. Ladies and gentlemen, the next generations will look at us and either thank us or condemn us, because the reality of the present is the sum the implemented visions and objectives of the past. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17317	The next item is the speech by Mr Preiner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17338	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate visitors to the gallery! Dear TV viewers! On my part, too, a warm welcome! I believe that protecting the environment is a global challenge. We are all required to provide an intact habitat in order to be able to pass on an intact nature and environment to our subsequent generations. Therefore, the Paris Convention on Climate Change is crucial for global environmental protection. [[Abg. Moser: Please do something new!]] Austria was one of the first countries to sign the Climate Change Treaty. That was true too, we have progressed with good example. I would now like to mention some of the priorities of the Paris climate change objectives, the Paris climate agreement, which, in my view, are necessary and important: Limiting global warming to 2 degrees – we have set ourselves a maximum of 1.5 degrees – to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is also crucial to update the climate action programme, which can only be done in cooperation and cooperation with the federal states. A special challenge is fair financing in the areas of transport and thermal renovation of buildings. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Burgenland is already progressing with good examples in terms of climate protection measures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] – Mrs. Brunner, the Burgenland is already 100% power self-sufficient. It is also the goal of the Burgenland to be 100% self-sufficient by 2020 through the construction of windwheels by using the power of the wind sustainable and positive. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We currently have some 20,000 Green jobs in Austria. These account for 11 percent of GDP, totaling over €35 billion. In my opinion, a timely development of climate change and energy strategies for national implementation is particularly important. I would also like to call on you, Mr Environment Minister, to take the appropriate steps as soon as possible, also with the focus on electric mobility. The survey we have held here in Parliament in terms of climate change is what I see as a start-up and impulse to raise and strengthen public awareness of climate change measures. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17381	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. To Paris? – to take note of the discussion on the implementation of the Paris Convention in Austria (III-286/1274 of the Supplements). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen: Enforce Paris Climate Treaty – Novelling Climate Change Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen: Implementation of the Paris climate agreement – emergency measures for Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen: Implementation of the Paris climate agreement – delete climate-damaging subsidies. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen: Apply Chancellor promises: 100 percent eco electricity by 2030. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on 'Food and raw materials transport from overseas'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:15:23]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the Green Report 2016 from the Federal Government (III-307/1280 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17506	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Jannach is the first to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17533	Mr President. Federal Minister! We are once again discussing the situation of agriculture, the Green Report. I am glad that we are not discussing today after midnight; in recent years it has been so that these reports have been discussed after midnight. I understand that because of the reports and the income situation in agriculture. But before we come to the figures of the Green Report and the income situation in agriculture, a few comments on the Green Report itself. The Green Report, together with the Ministry of Auditors, was reviewed by the Austrian Court of Auditors, which strongly criticised the preparation of the Green Report and, above all, the funding from the Ministry. He has de facto waste of money, from – how to say in Austria? – Grants of orders spoken. I refer here to the report and the “Economic Sheet” and the “Small Newspaper”. Despite the invitation to tender, no competition was reached. For 55 years – you have to imagine that! – the Ministry instructs one and the same company, LBG Österreich GmbH, to prepare the Green Report. That's what I'm saying. The number has also been raised today: €3.8 million has been spent on this report. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Brief quotations from the “Small Newspaper”: “This company has been entrusted by the Ministry for 55 years (...) – This is a renowned tax consultancy firm. [[Abg. Tamandl: This is a renowned tax consultancy firm! What's to do with it?]] However, this does not change the fact that the Ministry should write out properly and ensure competition and economic efficiency. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The criticism is directed against the untimely invitation to tender, the insufficient performance descriptions and the fact that no other companies were able to participate that no other valid offers could be presented. In addition, many additional benefits had been granted to the LBG, to this renowned company, “without any legal basis. There were numerous indications that the agreed flat-rate remunerations were economically inappropriate. The Ministry of Agriculture therefore failed to comply with the principle of economic efficiency and economy in the award of public contracts, as set out in the Federal Procurement Act 2006.’ In addition, the Court of Auditors has also criticised the costs for those who draw up this Green Report: €96 000 per employee. On the other hand, farmers' income is €23 000. There is no proportionality. We have criticized this in the Committee and demand that it be properly written out and awarded and that non-necessary surveys, as they are anyway made by Statistics Austria and other institutes, be omitted and made use of existing data. But now we are coming to the figures on agriculture. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] For the fifth year in a row, the Green Report notes a negative income trend for agriculture. That's bad enough for yourself. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] In 2013, former Minister for Agriculture Berlakovich said: Income minus, very bad, but we are on the right path, the measures will take! – The same applies for 2014: Farmers' income loss. Again we hear: We're on the right path! – 2015: the same. In 2016, income was 17 percent lower. What does Minister of Agriculture Rupprechter write in his foreword to this Green Report? – “We’re on the right track” – at 17 percent income loss! It is a dangerous threat if the Minister of Agriculture says: “We’re on the right track,” because then a minus of income is to be feared. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next year, we have another income-minus, I can predict it now, just as we prophesied last year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Berlakovich.]] – The former Minister of Agriculture should not talk big, because if his agricultural policy had been so successful, he would still be agriculture ministers. I already hear the Farmers' Federation and also the Minister say: In Romania and Malta, it is even worse, where farmers' incomes are much lower. We can't do anything for the Russian sanctions either; unfortunately, the EU is to blame. We can't do anything for the milk crisis either. We can't do anything for the pig crisis either. The weather was also so bad, and that's why we can't do anything for it. – This is not the right access! We've heard from the Federal Chancellor, we need a new deal. We've heard this for half a year, but we haven't lost hope that he'll come. This is what we need for agriculture. The objection which the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Berlakovich, has always brought to us, Mr Rupprechter, and the Farmers' Federation: Nor do you liberals have any suggestions on how it could get better! . I will just make one brief comment on the proposals we have made in the Committees in recent years. We were and are against the abolition of the milk quota. We believe that the milk quota is an ideal control instrument for regulating milk prices, because it is a cost-effective instrument. This request was submitted by the liberals – rejected by the Farmers' Federation, also by the SPÖ. We are against the unscrupulous Russian sanctions. The Russian sanctions are also to the detriment of domestic agriculture, which is massively to the detriment. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] That is why we have tabled applications for the abolition of the Russian sanctions – rejected by the Farmers' Federation. We have been for the reintroduction of agricultural diesel. We have tabled applications here; these have been rejected. At the last Committee meeting, however, the President of the Austrian Chambers of Agriculture, Hermann Schultes, said: Perhaps we should reintroduce the agricultural diesel again. – That, after two years of massive rejection of this agricultural diesel and our requests in this area! We also voted massively against the 2012 savings package. The 2012 savings package – and this will always be forgotten – also regulates the increase in social security contributions by 2017. This is also a massive burden on domestic farms. That too is what we have brought in, and that too has been rejected. This has nothing to do with the EU, but it directly damages local agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We have taken action to ensure that there is a clear product label so that Austrian consumers know that they can buy domestic products, because today everything is still spoiled, from meat to milk products, from abroad under red and white red. We do not have a uniform system, but we need it. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Last but not least, we have also tabled applications in countless form against this incredible bureaucracy, which burdenes Austrian agriculture. There is also no willingness on the part of the Ministry to take real action on the part of the Federal Farmers' Government. Now I come back to the proposal we are making today in the context of the Green Report: We are in favour of a fair distribution of agricultural support. We have already made this request twice. We will also point out today how necessary we consider that. I was very happy today: I have listened to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and it has long been the first German chancellor to say that the small farms receive nothing from the funds. That's an incredible realization. I would really like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for this. We are here offering the SPÖ Group, as in the last two years, to really intervene. If you read through our request, you will see individual farms receiving real sums of agricultural support, but as I have said, I do not blame these farms. These plants are right because they would be stupid, they would not pick up these subsidies. But they're disproportionate, and that's why we want a reduction. In addition, the Green Report also states that most of the 112 000 farms in Austria are fed from the agricultural sector with a bet of less than €10,000 and that very few farms, 100 to 200, receive hundreds of thousands of euros in grants. I therefore propose a motion for a resolution by Mr Harald Jannach, colleagues on the fair distribution of agricultural support and its limitations. By the way, Mr Preiner, in an issue, also supported the fact that we are shortening the funding. I will briefly read out the figures on some of the establishments so that you can know that. This is also interesting for the listeners. The Fürst Liechtenstein Foundation receives €1.3 million per year from the Agricultural Funding Pot; 1.3 million for the Fürst Liechtenstein Foundation, which does not even have its seat in Austria. Then we have Ehrenhofer GmbH: 553 000 €. Pen Holy Cross: € 550 000; Otto Pendl is, I believe, mayor of this community. [[Abg. No, no!]] - Isn't it? - Then I'll be fooled. [[Further no-run.]] In any case, the Stift Heiligenkreuz receives € 550 000 in support from the agricultural budget. Domaine Albrechtsfeld: €591,000 in funding. Farm Allacher and Allacher Agriculture: over €700 000 in subsidies. It's just not fair. We have excavated more plants this time: Good Kränzlhofen: 580 000 €, half-turn castle: €926,000 per year of support. I ask the workers' representatives here in the house what an employee and a worker earn on average in Austria. We finance the employees on these agricultural estates with tax money. That is not fair, and that is why we want a massive restriction. Then we still have... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – transparency? – Please, in the transparency database “www.transparencydatabase.at” everyone can see how much support someone gets. I took out a number of large businesses. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] What's very funny, a little Bonmot: The “Golfclub over the roofs of Passau” with €300 000 in promotions has also accommodated me. This has nothing to do with the size; it is not an agricultural holding. This is a golf club that receives €300 000 in support from the agricultural sector. Another answer to your question: If the former Head of State representative Scheuch received €500 000, I would also criticize it – quite simply! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I didn't raise it – quite simply! Where's the problem here? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want a fair distribution of these subsidies, we want a reduction, and we want to ensure a greater degree of support for small farms in the mountain area and thus for them survival. This proposal – and that is what I am going to conclude – will be put to the vote, and we want to vote in particular. I would like to make one more point on behalf of my colleague. Schools: As a solution to the current agricultural crisis, he called for the introduction of a Federal Chamber of Agriculture. That's the crowning! We have a superfluous administration in Austrian agriculture. We have more and more people involved in the administration of agriculture – in the AMA, in the Ministry, in the Chambers of Agriculture – and now the highest agricultural representative is coming and wants to introduce a Federal Chamber of Agriculture to strengthen local agriculture. Fortunately, this requires a two-thirds majority. We liberals will not agree to this proposal, and I would also ask the Greens not to agree to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e17691	The motion for a resolution has been presented and distributed in the broad guidelines, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18497	Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18518	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a special thanks to those farmers who provide the data for the Green Report, because this also requires a special quality of the collection. Thank you very much to all those farmers! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I would also like to thank the officials who are doing this reference work for us, because it allows a very open, honest basis for the discussion, if you have the real facts on the table here. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jannach, yes, it is not pleasing, and it is undisputed: The fourth income minus is a problem! There is a great deal of difficulty for dairy farmers, pig farming and market-fruit farms – quite a lot of difficulties! – and there it is necessary to help accordingly. Therefore, we remain in our proposal that it would be important to suspend a quarter of social security. This has already been done by other insurance companies in a similar form, and that is why, I think, this is a justified concern. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On one point I have to add a little to Mr Jannach: He has rightly or wrongly quoted some subsidies from the agricultural sector. Yes, it always annoys me if you hide all kinds of subsidies in the rucksack of farm promotion. I'd like to help you out a little: Upper Austrian Nature Conservation Council Haimbuchner, FPÖ –: € 1.766 million; [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] Office of the Salzburger Landesregierung, Natur- und Umweltung – Colleague Rössler von der Grünen –: € 1.829 million. [[New Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] But Mr. Holub of the Greens in Carinthia must not stand up to: This is a smaller federal country, it only gets round 409 000 €, ladies and gentlemen. Then there will be, and it will be particularly exciting, Mr President: I take this from the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”, which once listed that around 54 promoters have received more than € 1 million, but only two are agricultural farms. [[Abg. Jannach: A piggy!]] Only two are farms. [[Abg. Jannach: You allowed that!]] Economy, tourism, commerce, even the Telekom, even the EVN take part here in the backpack of farm promotion. [[Abg. Jannach: Yes!]] In the backpack of farm promotion! [[Abg. Listen, you're gonna let that happen! You've been letting this happen for decades!]] That could be a little correct, ladies and gentlemen. Then agriculture would not appear so large in the case of weitem, then there would be a little more justice. I hear from all these companies that benefit from it, and I have nothing against their coming to support if they offer employment, contracts, appropriate opportunities. I have nothing against it – but not under the title of agricultural support! That's my problem. That would have been quite frankly said once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Listen: Then change it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This would also have to be considered by the Federal Chancellor, who rightly pointed out this morning that he had found from the experience of his parents-in-law that a smaller farm did not receive much. He would have to look at this in the same way so that we can stay a little more just and objective. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Because the agricultural chambers are also very often criticized: Do you know who needs it most? - The small farms! They need help, they need help, they need advice. A large business needs the least; they make their stories online. We absolutely need these facilities for small farms to help these farmers, with advice, with support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Perhaps we also have a problem of information. Today I read in a newspaper that one has to explain to the schoolchildren in Vienna, so to speak, that the salad does not grow on the trees because they have never seen a farm. They do not know that pork, beef, milk do not automatically come out of the refrigerator, but that there is a lot of work behind it from farmers. Perhaps we still need action in the Enlightenment. But perhaps we also have a problem in reconnaissance with those trade chains that tell us great things like a Mr Drexel of SPAR, who is concerned about Austrian agriculture. He only needs to pay a little more, to fix only a fair price, then the Austrian farmers have an income from which they can also live!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18647	Mr Pirklhuber came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18668	Yes, half past eight is a good time: “Time in the image. ” The question is to take a picture of agriculture today. What does that mean? I would like to highlight once again the last contribution made by Mr Auer to clarify a few things. What you mentioned, Mr Auer, is rural development. Yes, rural development, that is not agricultural support in the narrower sense. [[Abg. Auer: Jannach criticized this in his application! Read it!]] I think it is important – on this point I give you the right to present the means of rural development separately. [[Abg. Auer: Read the application!]] What the national councils receive is the means for nature conservation which they grant to farmers to implement the nature conservation measures. So that this is also stoned and clearly said again. So many times to clarify the facts. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Report is an analysis of the structure of Austrian agriculture. Let me mention a few key numbers: We still have around 166 000 agricultural and forestry holdings. Of these, 37 percent are in the main acquisition, 55 percent – that is, more than half – in the secondary acquisition. This is an important scale, since there are many small businesses, of which the Federal Chancellor has also spoken today. These are farms that – for tax reasons they might have to be described as a lover – operate agriculture with heart and soul, but are prevented from survival. You are prevented from having more than one stand in agriculture because the agricultural policy is unfair, namely unfair in every respect, Mr Auer! You know this as well as your colleagues. Why? – There are many farms in the mountain area which are from the outset disadvantaged geographically. In the fourth year in a row, we have a minus of farm income. If you look at the figures of Statistics Austria, Mr. Auer, it has been losses per worker since 2011 of 33 percent. One third of their income, their labour force, have lost these farms. A third, ladies and gentlemen! That is why the farmers are simply angry. They are angry at some kind of policy that they can no longer carry. You can no longer carry them, Mr Auer, and you are responsible for you from the ÖVP and, above all, you from the Chamber of Agriculture, Mr Schultes. They would be responsible for making interest policy especially for those small businesses, and we miss them! [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] We've missed it for years. Here in plenary there is no positioning for the many small businesses that have negative results. Look at it, you only need to see page 79 of the Green Report! On this page 79 you will learn that 25 percent of all farms have negative income. A quarter has negative income! One thing I have to say over and over again, because that's what most people know: In the case of agricultural income, the social security contributions have not yet been deducted. That is to say, farmers who have negative income have to pay social security. Taking this into account, at least one third of Austrian farms are negative in the operating result. Ladies and gentlemen, this is shocking. It's shocking! That is also the reason why the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, when he looks at such a bookkeeping, rightly does not understand the world anymore. Why should such establishments make such high social security contributions if they are in the off-balance when they have to conduct their operations negatively? – Mr Auer, explain this to me! Mr Schultes, tell us what you, as the chief representative of the Chambers of Agriculture, are doing. What are you doing for 33 percent of businesses, at least one third that now have negative operating results? What are you doing for her? Yeah, you can shake your head. But this is the question of farmers who ask themselves daily. [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach.]] They ask this question every day: Do I have to lock the operation? Can I possibly have a perspective? And how should this go, ladies and gentlemen, with prices in the dairy sector, with price developments on the pig market? In the last few weeks, the companies will be supplied the unit value certificates. The new unit value statement: At least 40 percent of farms have significant increases. That's where you need to know: From next year, they will then pay significantly higher social security contributions on the basis of these new unit-value decisions! And you know what? – The scandal is that small businesses in particular pay significantly more! They pay the tokens, the small businesses are asked to cash back. Who's responsible for it? – There he sits: the highest representative of the Chambers of Agriculture, colleague Schultes. He is the president of this association. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If a workers' chamber president represented such a thing, he would be chased away from all the other chamber presidents with a wet squat! That's it. [[Abg. Loacker:... Bank Australians betray!]] And what is the difference? – In the simple fact that a Federal Labour Chamber President has been elected, a elected representative. The prime representative of the Chambers of Agriculture is not a President elected by the members, but is elected as one. Two representatives of the Raiffeisen Group also sit in this association. Ladies and gentlemen, with what legitimacy? There we can also put in the Sparkassenverein or any other company, or the national product dealers. Why are two representatives sitting there? Mr Auer, you know the Raiffeisen organization, you're a specialist: Why are two representatives of the Raiffeisen Association sitting in the Presidential Conference of the Chambers of Agriculture? That is the question, ladies and gentlemen, and there is politics on the back of farmers! I am now on the point of why we will vote against this report, which is otherwise good. Read on page 126 So you're talking about CETA, that this is a great deal. I don't think I'm hearing right, I'm not reading right! That can't be! A few days ago, Mr President, this Minister was still standing up and he said: Of course, free trade, wonderful for agriculture! What's that supposed to mean, ladies and gentlemen? Do you feel committed to your farmers or the industry or any export industry? That's the question. It is in this Green Report that the precautionary principle has been positively anchored. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is wrong! If something is wrong in a Green Report, you have to stand up to it, act and say: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not like this, and this is something that the farmers in particular do not like. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schultes, this is not how it is done. [[Abg. Brunner: (in the direction of ÖVP) That is your problem, that you believe, that is enough...!]] You cannot represent a position against your own members which does not serve agriculture! Tell me why you stand for CETA and what the benefits for farmers are! The farmers see no benefits in CETA – but really not! Where are they supposed to be? The 16,000 tonnes we can export more cheese? – Ladies and gentlemen, who are standing on the other side Page Tariffs for Canada: 100 000 tonnes of wheat, 45 000 tonnes of beef and 75 000 tonnes of pigmeat. So please, the other scale is not even half full! This is not a positive result in the face of strained markets. Farmers have no interest at all in marketing sluice prices on the world market. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] . I'll be right there, Mr President. You have to say: What prices are produced in Canada? – Pig prices minus 25 percent compared to the European average, beef prices minus 35 percent compared to the European average. – This is not an option, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore: Back to the start! A Federal Chamber of Agriculture, yes, but a democratic one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18781	President. — I call Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18803	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate television. I also welcome a warm welcome to an important debate, Mr Berlakovich, namely the one on the Green Report 2016, which refers to the 2015 work and economic year. I am very grateful to the officials in the Ministry of Agriculture, but also to the AMA for the preparation of the Green Report. Thank you very much, too. the farmers for their work. We also know that the current year 2016 was and is an economically particularly challenging year, especially due to the frost and hail disaster that we had in this year. In 2016, there will probably be a loss of income among farmers in the eastern part of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, the UN declared 2014 the year of the peasant family farms. This is no longer too much to see – as the Green Report points out in 2015. We know that, in particular, the small-scale family farms, the auxiliary farmers, the mining farmers of category 3, but also the milk-producing farms in the conventional dairy sector have been financially covered. Of course, we also know that there are difficulties and difficulties in the agricultural export market. I would like to address a question to you, Mr Minister, as regards the slaughterhouses in Austria: How many slaughterhouses currently have certificates to carry out meat exports to Asia? [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is also a question that is worth getting closer to. It has already been mentioned that the average income loss for Austrian farmers amounts to 17 percent; in the case of ancillary farmers, it is still more than a few percentage points. I would also like to mention that Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Kern, is right in saying that agricultural support should be more justly distributed to those who need it, namely the small farming family farms. I can also provide you with the information that the rural development programme totals € 7.8 billion. Our agriculture minister Rupprechter is responsible for the distribution of this €7.8 billion. I therefore call on you, Minister, to seek, within the framework of the rural development programme, to ensure that small and medium-sized family farms and ancillary farms receive a correspondingly higher level of support. Another sentence on Mr Jannach's request: It is known that there is currently as a basis for land development. We focus on this and also want to achieve, in the course of the evaluation of the rural development programme and also in the context of the reorientation of the new funding period 2020, that there are more support priorities for labour inputs and that we get away from large-scale land support. This would also be an essential contribution to greater fairness of funding. I hope that this also falls on fertile ground on the side of the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by thanking the farmers for their work, even in difficult times, and hope that despite all this, 2016 will be financially and economically positively positive, and hope that we will be able to achieve greater distribution justice in the future. By the way, the basis for land support has not existed since 2013 or 2014, but for more than 15 years – only as much as information has been said about it if some forget how various funding conditions have been achieved now and also in the past 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18872	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e18909	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators at the visitor gallery and in front of the televisions! The Green Report will be discussed for the first time this year at a time when very many practitioners will also have the opportunity to watch for work done in the stable, and, of course, many consumers, whom I particularly welcome, because this Green Report has a very substantial power to comment on food sovereignty in our country. First of all, I should like to thank all farmers, farmers' youth and farmers'pensionists who, despite this level of prices, are willing to carry these farms through this difficult time and make work despite such humiliating prices. If you look at the results of the last years: 2012 – minus 8 per cent, 2013 – minus 6 per cent, 2014 – minus 5 per cent and 2015 – minus 17 per cent, then it can be seen that this is a minus of 36 per cent. Today, however, we are discussing the last Green Report. Unfortunately, the new one that we need to discuss will be once again a minus – and if it becomes a rich minus, just as it is now occurring, we will exceed minus 50 percent. Mr Minister, if you're saying we're on the right track, I don't know which way you want to go with the farmers. I think that is the crucial question that has already been raised. If, at this point, the increase in unit values in this House is discussed and decided, I really do not know what to do with it if we are to impose additional burden on it and, as Mr Pirklhuber said, the social security contributions are calculated as income. But, Minister, because there are friends from the forestry industry and there are a lot of forest farmers in Austria, a small addition to the Paris Convention: That's exactly this beautiful speech, even in the climate agreements, as you just did in the wood! You say yes, we have a good situation, we are so hard on it, and we will come to 100 percent of the domestic electricity and energy. Yes – and then I’ve gotten smarter! The reality is: We have the Ukrainian beech. Today, the export radius of wood is 3 700 kilometers. We have the Ukrainian beech in Upper Austria, we have the timber from all eastern countries throughout Austria, we have foreign firewood in all the building markets and in all warehouses, colleagues from the Farm Federation and the Chamber of Agriculture! These are the realities, and if you explain to the farmers that everything is palette, then you don't have to wonder – Finance Minister Schelling mentioned that the trust account is very important – that you have played the trust account with the farmers. This is the practical result. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] I would perhaps like to make this happen as soon as Mr Rädler referred to the Taferl: There's nothing to mess with. This (a table with the heading ‘AMA merkblatt (with filling instructions), milk reduction measures 2016/2017’ is a logical development of this agricultural policy: At a time when the milk quota has been abolished – a completely wrong decision! – to drive a milk reduction model with the state AMA and then say that farmers are rewarded for producing less, such something is not available in any industry in this world! Every entrepreneur knows that he needs growth if he only wants to continue his business – and if he wants to achieve profits, he needs greater growth. This is nothing but a state-supported palm oil program. That's a palm oil funding program! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is nothing but a state-funded dairy cow slaughter programme, ladies and gentlemen. I'm excited when People's Advocate supports herbs, not in the farming systems, but in the rescue of dairy cows. There is, of course, the right cartoon, ladies and gentlemen. There the small dairy farmer with his milk can beggaring in front of the mafiosi with the thick cigar on the palm island and says: [[another panel on the speaker's desk, which depicts the caricature of a farmer with a milkpot, which is turned off by three men with suit, hat, sunglasses, cigars and suitcases standing in a small palm forest with a gesture]] Let me do a little bit with the milk fat, we also want to happen in food! – These are the topics: Consumers want to know what is inside, but there is simply no marking. [[Abg. Rädler: (in the direction of FPÖ) So you need one at the FPÖ!]] They also get a lot of glycosate directly into the food. We discuss a glyphosate ban with us in Austria – and then mix the glyphosate with consumers about the palm oil, about coconut fat directly into the food! [[another panel with the title “Chemical Keule Glyphosate – in Millions of tonnes worldwide” in front of the speaker’s desk, which shows a diagram with rising bars]] But that's not a problem. I should like to mention briefly: President Schultes will do this, I am convinced. Mr President, I would like to pay attention. You are the head of nine chamber directors, you are the head of nine chamber presidents, you are the head of nine chamber vice presidents, you are the head of nine plant engineering directors, you are the head of nine animal husbandry directors, you are the head of nine household business departments – and I wonder who you want to appeal to in this house to do something! Just do it would be the foreign exchange. Courage, the Minister of Finance has said. That means: make, implement, do! These are the simple tasks: listen only to colleagues! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] In view of the advanced speaking time, I would like to take a brief look at the following: There are, of course, lots of messages in the media. President Auer has also said that the farmers have a debt to the population. The Minister appeals that food should be handled carefully. And that's the biggest thing. The Farmers' Federation calls for a protest at the SPAR markets, against butter from Bavaria. – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, why don’t you even demonstrate against palm oil? It would have failed if one had to bring out the substitutes and the other things from the food than the butter from the colleagues from Bavaria. But don't do anything, however. The Upper Austrian Chamber of Agriculture – President Reischer with its own newspaper – is informed to the farmers that discharge measures have been decided. [[keeping a copy of a newspaper entitled “The Bauer” in height]] – Yes, and that is why we want to support him. They took place at the last assembly on 28 October. It was decided in September that the agricultural diesel would be reintroduced as a result of this difficult price situation. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] And in addition to this, because this is also gratefully pityd by the colleagues – I am already done, Mr President – the quality seal law should also be introduced, because, dear consumers, how should you know what is inside if there is a red-and-white-red flag everywhere? [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] Since 2009, the Quality Seal Act has been adjourned. That is why I would like to make the following request: Motion for a resolution by Mr Leopold Steinbichler, Members of Parliament, on the quality seal law The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management is invited to submit to the National Council, in agreement with the relevant bodies in the present case, a draft law which is appropriate to enable the introduction of a legally binding, uniform quality seal for all foodstuffs offered in Austria.” I think that's a target. So we can solve the crisis most quickly. We're asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19015	The motions for resolutions are properly tabled and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19147	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19168	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the Green Report, and I have the advantage of having experienced it many times, which is the disadvantage that Mr Pirklhuber can no longer be heard. He doesn't think of anything new. Sad to say, Mr Steinbichler took so long until the button hits him. You at least have a subject with palm oil, because as long as you were a farmer, you didn't think of anything. I have a comfort for you: The palm oil harvest was bad this time, palm oil will be expensive, and that may help us. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Go to Vöcklabruck once so you know what this is like...!]] Now on the real problem: High House, it is a really cruel transformation of the world agricultural markets in progress – not only with us, but everywhere. We are experiencing what we are discussing here about the situation of farmers in Serbia, America, China, Thailand, Brazil, Argentina. Everything has grown well all over the world, and demand has been restricted everywhere in the world. The same thing that happens in the steel, the same thing that happens in the oil, what happens at the electricity price, happens with us. The policy response must be: Understanding for the Austrian farmers. I would have expected our coalition partner to understand at least, but the problem is that Mr Preiner, too, has a bit of a mess with the numbers. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] It would be nice if we had €7.8 billion from rural development, but unfortunately it is only €640 million, and they are hard-earned because, as we have heard, many others also have to be served. The point is: We have around €500 million less income because our products are less valuable. It's missing. And this is the advantage of consumers throughout Austria: They have to pay less. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's not true at all!]] If we say, At least once, let us not pay a social security rate!, they make us a problem when we cancel it. And then, when I say, at least we leave away the agricultural taxation that exists only in Austria, not in Hungary, not with the others, Mr Schopf tells me about the SPÖ: What do you want?- Oh, my God! We do not need to talk about this at all, at least 80 € per month from the tax reform. – He says that publicly in the committee! Our problem is that in this House the other political groups are having fun with the farmers, not making a concrete proposal for a solution that makes Jannach the same joke every year and unfortunately our coalition partner in the question does not understand how serious it is. You killed the federal army. Look out, the farmers could be like this soon! We now quickly need to have a serious understanding of what is really happening. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I am a representative of interest and an elected Member of Parliament. I can say this to my farmers: Don't say thank you, but help them! I'm saying thank you because I know what I'm fighting for.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19249	Mr Steinbichler is speaking on an actual amendment. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19274	Mr President Schultes has just dared to say: While Leo Steinbichler in Vöcklabruck He didn't think he was a farmer's representative. I'm actually correcting: On my job as district minister in Vöcklabruck...
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19300	Mr President, I am sorry, this is not an actual correction. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Tamandl: This is not an actual correction!]] Unfortunately, Mr President, this is not an actual correction, unfortunately I cannot allow it. Mr Riemer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19341	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! That was quite good, but one thing I immediately reject, Mr President Schultes, is that we are making fun of the farmers at the expense of the farmers. So this is really, I have to say, a derailment. Strangely, in the Green Report, there is exactly the opposite of what you are saying. If you read the Green Report carefully, you can imagine that we have around 70 000 businesses since accession to the EU. Since about looking at this, we have 166,000 farms in 2013. If we now expect to reduce 2 500 farms each year, then – expect You're out! – are there 4 800 farms again, and next year again 4,000 farms, and next year? Please, where is that going? That is what we are talking about rural development. When all the people are gone, the kindergartens are gone, then the schools are gone, then the inn is gone, and then the regions die out. What will help billions anywhere in the universe if we don't have people there?- Oh, my God! You can look into the South Styria to the border country: It looks sad! – That’s a merit! [[He was also a member of the Committee of the Regions of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party ……]] The next point – it has already been mentioned – is the income-minus, that is, a very clear story; but perhaps a number on it. If we hear that in the field of farmers, 93 percent are family farms, but in reality only more than 60 percent of the whole reason, and that human resources are legal persons and 7.3 percent are actually already 40 percent of the land, then there is something to be buried. Do we even want a small-structured agriculture? – If we don’t want to, then one should say it, then we make a completely different construction out of it, but just talking doesn’t do anything, but we have to fight the causes and not stop over a little bit of treatment with funding money afterwards. The funding funds have not solved the problem for a long time. But let's talk about something positive: The economic performance is positive. If I look at this, for example, the agricultural machinery, and all this with the less-growing agricultural holdings: 43 agricultural machinery companies with 5 600 employees are implementing 1,9 billion €. Take the cooperatives: 90 warehouses with 12,000 employees and 120,000 members. The plant protection products should be rethinked. There are a lot of applications. In 2013, we distributed 10 728 tonnes, 2015 12 928 tonnes; compared to the previous year, 1 300 tonnes are more and more, and this continues. These also generate 11 percent more turnover, which is not a bad story; but where does this lead if we spread more and more tons of plant protection products into the fields? – That’s illogical: fewer plants, more plant poison – I don’t see that personally anymore. Food-producing farms have revenue of €8.16 billion – something has to fall for farmers. That's not a thing. I am now leaving behind the controls, which are largely satisfactory. It's maybe 1 percent, maybe not quite that way, except for the transports on the street. Mr. Schultes, I chose something from last year, because it says inside – Mr. Schultes on 10 October. November 2015 –: "But we all have a common concern, and agriculture is a form of well-being. But low prices set limits and higher standards need to be achieved.” Yes, you are right, and you rightly argue that 2.5 million food sports are spent every day, in government buildings, hospitals, schools et cetera. My question: What have you done in this one year as President of the Chamber of Agriculture? – That would really interest me, because what happens when production is transferred abroad? – Our high standards kill our farmers; You're right. What's going on about it? So I have to say: Requests for opposition have not yet been made here. Same CETA: If it is said today that the German Supreme Court has decided, CETA does not contradict anything at all, then we already know, then the Core Express comes and will confirm the whole. But this is also a recommendation: CETA, TTIP – the §-7 Commission recommends this in the Green Report. Should this be critical, please?- Oh, my God! What happened? – This §-7 Commission is obviously just an addition to the whole report. That's a shame. When we talk about animal welfare, I would like to conclude by saying something negative: One must also be critical of the farmers who do not adhere to this basic agricultural behaviour of the Republic. That's how we come to the illegal shaft. More and more farmers obviously have their sheep slaughtered without vets et cetera, because of cheap money. That's a shame. Similarly, the catcastration in Upper Austria, where farmers cancel the law, is not all right. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Well, that's stupid!]] In conclusion: Smallest rural structure, quo vadis? – We stand behind the small farmers, and if Austria says it also stands for it, then the farmers, like the German army, must be worth something to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19383	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19405	Mr President. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a very brief look at the speech by the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] It is not right that we – social democracy and I, too, personally – do not intervene for the farmers, on the contrary: We stand for the Austrian agriculture and forestry sector; it is important. It is important for rural areas, it is important for the whole population, but we are also in favour of more fair distribution of the funding used, at least € 1.3 billion. That is the point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach.]] I'm just saying, There is also a warm thanks from our group to those who have prepared the report, especially those farmers who have also provided the necessary data. We as the Social Democratic Party will accept and take note of this Green Report today. Ladies and gentlemen, aproposing support: I said that in total, grants of €1.3 billion, ultimately paid out of tax money, have been paid out. On average, every farm received about €11 500 last year. While a third of the companies – and this is the point – received on average only about €2 300 per holding in the lower funding area, which accounts for 7 per cent of the funding, 1.5 per cent of the companies at the top received plenty of 10 per cent of all funding and thus an average of €78 300. This is the problem: There is an unfair funding policy, and social democracy is clearly opposed. [[Complementary of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Eßl and Mr Schimanek.]] We therefore have to do with a support system that the large farmers prefer compared to the small farmers, and we do not want to do so from the social democracy side. On the contrary: We want small farmers to be promoted more strongly than in the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riemer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, they make up the rural nature of our country, and they would also have deserved that this fairer distribution policy in the funding system, especially at European level, be reflected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19476	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19498	Mr. President! High house! You're 57. Green report of 2016 with the income situation 2015 before, and as clearly expressed in the debates by all speakers, with a minimum of 17 percent of the average of all incomes of agriculture and forestry, this is indeed a dramatic, negative development that one does not need to speak beautifully. There is nothing to discuss about this, especially with regard to the fact that it is already the fourth year in a row that we have a negative income development. The debate in the Committee on this report, which I believe has been very constructive, was borne by the common concern of all the groups represented in Parliament for the necessary measures for the conservation of our rural family farms. The causes have been discussed in great detail. Of course, last year in particular, it was the fall in milk prices and pig prices, but also the development of cereal prices has been relatively negative. In the case of milk and pigmeat, we clearly know the causes: It was especially due to the disappearance of one of our most important third country markets, Russia. 25 percent of European cheese exports have gone to Russia. As a result, the pig market broke out in 2014. These measures have mainly contributed to a massive price pressure – not only in Austria but throughout Europe. You know, you know that. In addition, of course, in 2015, we also had extremely difficult weather conditions: a very long-lasting drought, which has led to strong effects, in particular, on the harvest results of autumn crops and in this combination, to these results in income. Almost all forms of operation were affected, especially the finishing plants with almost minus 30 percent of the Income. You don't need to be beautiful. What is particularly painful to me as someone coming from a mountain area is that, in particular, the mining plants were particularly affected because they are mainly active in the dairy sector in the countryside. The §-7 Commission has adopted the seven recommendations by large majority, which are also part of the Green Report. I would also like to thank all farmers who, despite the difficult situation of their contributions, especially the voluntary recording in the form of double accounting, have contributed to the fact that we have received a very comprehensive report and also to the members, to the experts of the §-7 Commission and to all the employees who have contributed to this comprehensive reference work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The measures to be taken and which have been put in place also contribute to market relief. At European level, we have made strong efforts to ensure that, in particular in the milk sector, voluntary milk supply withdrawal action is taken, including with the participation of the European Union. In the summer of this year, it has definitely succeeded in bringing this voluntary withdrawal back to life, and the Austrian farmers, especially in the dairy sector, are participating in it. We are implementing these measures in this and the coming quarter, and we already feel that they are beginning to take hold. In the context of the milk dialogue here in the House, we have held a very comprehensive debate on the necessary accompanying measures, and we have already implemented a number of these measures, such as short-term measures needed to strengthen the liquidity of farms. We have implemented the AIK support. We agreed in principle in the government on the suspension of social security contributions in the last quarter of this year. This must be implemented legally by the end of this year. To this end, the Austrian Federal Government says, we have a common understanding. This is also the necessary solidarity that agriculture can rightly call for and, especially in these difficult times, must call for. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We have made a reorientation of measures by adapting the rural development programme, with a volume of €70 million for animal welfare measures, for animal husbandry, investment measures also as a contribution to the climate change adaptation strategy, and decided to strengthen the organic farming sector. We have planned €50 million for strategic future investments in the milk processing sector in the investment sector, and we will have to use even more resources to support a forced export effort. We have used the export service station. We will complement it with another facility, a kind of export agency in my resort, with which we will be more professionally supporting export efforts, especially in export marketing to Best of Austria. We have adopted this year's harvest insurance in the High House by a very broad majority, and we have planned to take care of the weather so that harvest insurance can be strengthened. We have been successful in the field of the best bidder principle. Last year, more food from home has been obtained in public procurement This year we should be able to implement it, and by reforming the federal procurement law we should be able to do even more. It is admittedly a difficult starting point for domestic agriculture, since there is nothing to be beautify. We have taken action, and I am also confident that these will grasp that there will again be a positive perspective for our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19586	Mr Hauser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. The remaining speaking time of the Group is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19641	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, the situation in agriculture is really hard. Mr President, it would really be up to you to apologise for your statement here and today. They have accused us all of having fun in the high house with the farmers. This statement is intolerable. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach as well as with representatives of SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schools.]] I reject the accusation of hypocrisy. That's not a claim. The situation is really hard, as I have already explained, without referring to the number. This year alone, the 23 percent reduction for mining plants is actually a disaster. You know what it means to be a farmer in rural areas. The income achieved outside agriculture, which is necessary in order to maintain agriculture, is fully absorbed in agriculture. At 6 o'clock in the morning it is called getting up to the stable, then to work, after work back into the stable. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of Parliament for jewelry miners and schoolmen.]] It can already happen that – and there is a compliment and a thank you to the women – the women help out. [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] So we would like to thank all farmers and farmers for their work on 365 days a year. They need our support. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] The only chance we have in rural areas to preserve the miners and the farmers is to intensify cooperation between agriculture, gastronomy and tourism. In this respect, there have also been countless applications in the committees, which unfortunately God is repeatedly adjourned by the coalition, by SPÖ and ÖVP. It is high time to bring, for example, clarity into the jungle of the seal of goodness. We have about 240 quality stamps for agricultural products alone. Hardly anyone knows each other. That needs to be reduced. What does the guest want, what does the consumer want? – Where Austria insists, Austria must be inside, from birth to slaughter to packaging. We have to do this. I took with me a recent study of the tourism industry, the so-called T-MONA study, a joint study of Austria's advertising with the national tourism associations, with the regional tourism associations – sample: 35 900 people. What comes out in the surveys should be positive for us. For the reasons to spend vacation with us in Austria, say of the target group Nature and Culinary 54 percent: Regional drinks and food are important to us so that we can spend the holidays in Austria. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] For all respondents, the diversity and quality of the gastronomic offer are absolutely important. Therefore, this rail must be used intensively in agriculture, tourism and gastronomy. The price is right, and the product satisfaction is right, and the satisfaction for our farmers is the result of this. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again.]] Please do not delay our requests, which will also lead to quality in the field of seal of quality! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19718	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19739	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Green Report 2016 reflects the difficult situation in agriculture, but I do not think it will continue if we only discuss emotionally and issue mutual debt allocations here. Yes, Austria's agriculture produces under difficult conditions, be it from the structures, whether from the climate, but also from the environmental standards that we all call for, or with regard to the issue of animal welfare. Austria's agriculture is competitive with industrialized agriculture and agriculture, where there is a low wage level. So there are quite reasons – and this has already been explained here today, also by the Federal Minister – but I think we have to do the best out of the situation. We cannot postpone agriculture. We must try to maintain agriculture with all possible means and sustainability. I should like to make three wishes or proposals here. We have quite opportunities and opportunities in the area of milk production, in which there is a fall in prices. With us in Tyrol, half of the milk is produced by special production, i.e. as organic milk, as hay milk or even as alm milk. I think there are the products with which we can sell ourselves from competitors. We must try to manage our forests more effectively. We have reforestation residues, in this area the subject of biomass also falls. It is constantly being called upon, and it must help to achieve our climate objectives. Mr Hauser mentioned it: Yes, we need new cooperations with tourism, but we also need new cooperations and solidarity with the consumer – Austrian meat on the Austrian plate and no steaks from Argentina and America! Austria's agriculture, and this has not yet been mentioned here today, secures a lot of jobs in the downstream sector. Over 500 000 jobs are maintained by active agriculture. You can see it exactly: If the farmers are not well, then the economy and industry have problems – that is what is currently being seen in the field of agricultural technology. We must therefore continue to show a certain degree of solidarity with agriculture in the future, and I expect it to be here too, because the benefits go far beyond The whole thing is out. We have a beautiful country, we have a well-kept country, we have high environmental standards. Austria's agriculture will continue to produce food that is worth being called food, and not food comparable to industrial products. It is a difficult time, but I think we are all required to work for our farmers, who work every day, for years, to accompany this path and to master the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19794	Mr Doppler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19816	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the Green Report 2016: The situation is serious enough, and we have to take this debate on the Green Report seriously, because that is a lot to do with it. First of all, I should like to thank those farmers who make voluntary records so that it is at all possible for us to have this Green Report. The situation of the Austrian agriculture and forestry – agriculture and forestry! – continues to be tense, has not improved, on the contrary, it has deteriorated massively. Balance the funding – Mr Walter Schopf, I think that is right, this approach is right, I am 100% with you, but please, do it! You are also part of the coalition, Mr Commissioner. I think it is urgently necessary for implementation to take place. The incomes of farms fell by saying and writing 17 percent. It is true that there are difficulties, especially with regard to pig manure, the dairy sector, but also grain harvest. In the dairy sector it is quite extreme that there are massive losses. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned today: In particular, sanctions against Russia are an important factor for the losses in our agriculture. – Mr Minister, please work to ensure that these sanctions are finally removed and stopped, because in every respect we have a massive loss of agricultural products. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there are 23 percent losses in mining plants! The miners, I have already said this in the context of the previous Green Report, are not only farmers but also guarantees for the population as regards the prevention of mural waste, avalanches or the like. We must therefore necessarily support the mining industry accordingly in order to maintain the rural structure. In this sense, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you to make a major effort to stop sanctions against Russia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19865	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19888	Mr Schultes, the accusation that the SPÖ would have saved the army to death, I point out the sharpest, because the Minister can invest only that money which will also be granted to him ; and there are three names that can be easily referred to in connection with it : [[Call: But that's true.]] Fekter, spindlegger and Schelling – and nobody else! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr President. Minister! In 2015, Austrian agriculture was one of the worst in the world. It was the fourth year in a row in which farmers faced income losses. Once again, it has hit the miners who have to fight with a minimum of 23 percent. We face the fact that every year more people leave the courts. This does not necessarily mean, however, that more funding is needed, but that means more fair distribution. As Mr Schopf said: 42 percent of total funding is already going to agriculture. That's just a fair distribution and not a more. If the pastures are no longer managed, Austria also loses one of its most beautiful cultural landscapes and those alpine meadows that we are not only proud of, but which are also tourist landmarks. But right now – after 2014 – we are already faced with the same inconsistencies, namely in the area of alpine areas. There is a report from the member of the EU Court of Auditors, Oskar Herics, in which it reads: ‘There are still shortcomings. The system still does not work in the area of alpine areas,” said Herics. It is about demarcating the non-eligible alpine areas, such as wasteland. “There is too little care in Austria.” According to the EU Commission, there would be risks to the agricultural fund, financial corrections did not exclude the EU authorities, said Herics.” That means that we are then again exposed to the risk that 10 percent of criminal payments may be necessary. – This cannot be in the interests of the farmers. I would ask the Minister to clarify and act quickly in this regard. I would like to make another point: For a long time, I have been fighting the most likely cancer - causing herbicide glycosate. As we know, the European Commission is concerned about Approach again – although only temporarily, but after all – authorised. As evidenced by independent studies, this drug suspects that it is carcinogenic. We are not talking about any means that are being spent a little bit, but about a means that is most used in Austria: 431 tonnes were released in 2015 alone. And the Mär, most of them consume the ÖBB, we can forget, because 80 to 90 percent are used in agriculture, only 1 percent consume the ÖBB. It's clear to me: Nothing else has happened but that the lobby of the chemical giants has prevailed and won. But one thing is clear: The application is for the Member States and nobody else. In Austria, there are already positive examples in Salzburg and Innsbruck that it is not used. Therefore, the request and the request to the Minister: Please, forbid it! Let's finally put an end to this drive! – The health of people must simply be worth more to us than the well-being of the chemical giants. I can remind you that in April you said literally: Austria's agriculture does not need glyphosate. – If that’s true, let’s go ahead for example! Supporting organic farming is accordingly strong, then we no longer need glyphosate! We simply forbid the use of glyphosate, including all the additives, such as the POE-Tallowin, which would even comply with the EC Implementing Regulation. That's where it's inside. ‘Member States shall ensure that glyphosate containing plant protection products do not contain the substance POE-Tallowin (...).’ This is simply a question of implementing this Implementing Regulation accordingly. It is simple and touching for us, especially for you, Minister! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19928	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e19949	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Green Report is one of the most comprehensive works available for a sector – in an old-fashioned form. A thank you to the farmers and a thank you to the officials who created him; this has already been said by several previous speakers. I would like to address a few issues. For structural change: Structural change means that farms cease to operate. - We need to discuss this honestly. Yes, there is structural change. There would not have been many economic sectors in Austria if there had not been any employment from agriculture to other areas. But why is it that the farms cease to exist? – Because the market pressure is growing and the pressure on farmers is so great that they have to produce cheaper and cheaper, so that the food is getting cheaper and cheaper. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] There's a lot of pressure from the food trade! That's the truth. That's not an accusation to anyone, but that's the truth. A farm holding two cows or three pigs can no longer exist. Therefore, farms are forced – whether they want to or not – to grow in size. And yet, despite this permanent pressure, we have succeeded in maintaining smaller structures in Austria than in many other European countries. The German farms are four times larger than the Austrian ones, the Czechs are ten times larger and the Danish are fifteen times larger. We have continued to have farmers, and these, which is especially important, are also, when they grow, much more often run by peasant families than elsewhere. So we have a structure that is healthy but, of course, under pressure. The current report shows a minus of 15 to 17 percent in recent years. In 2010 there was an increase of 20 percent in income, 2011 a plus of 28 percent. This shows how volatile the prices are, how they go up and down. Of course, there is a need for action. The second point is the constant issue of payments. Some in the SPÖ are there on a wooden road. We will not continue with these old retro-discussions, Mr Schopf. We're not gonna get there! There is a great deal of evidence here, and I therefore have to say: These European payments are not a social programme that is fairly or unfairly distributed. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: We can better promote the first 30 hectares!]] These European payments are also an environmental performance programme after the last reform. Mr Pirklhuber, you have already spoken. They've been squeezing the same thing for years, and nothing goes on! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] In reality, this is an ecological performance program, Greening the Common Agricultural Policy. That is, a farmer somewhere in Europe, also in Austria – this applies to all of Europe – only gets a direct payment if he behaves ecologically. And explain to the tax-paying population why a 10-hectare farm in agriculture should get more money than a 20-hectare farm! – One who does more for the environment, a organic farmer, gets more than one who does nothing. There are farmers who do not participate in the environmental programme. Ask why the use of plant protection products is increasing! – Because some say these programs are bureaucratic, I get out and produce on the market. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Less social insurance pay the enterprises!]] Of course, the environmental programme needs to be more attractive, but if you reduce resources, you cannot expect the environmental programme to be attractive. But again: That, against which I defend myself and against which we defend ourselves, is that these agricultural payments become social premiums, because then the farmer would be a farmer: You got money because you're a farmer! It must be a performance-related component, and that is the eco-performance, and therefore we are fighting for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20011	The next item is the speech by Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20033	Mr President. Federal Minister! The Green Report 2016, a good basis for discussion, shows many issues. You can build on and see how you can change something, because the income situation of farmers is really not the best. However, I would like to make a small correction to the comments made by one of my previous speakers, who said: If the utility farmers go to work, the women will help out. I would like to correct this in the direction that, in most cases, women in agricultural holdings – and many are direct marketers – are the main burden, and I would like to thank the farmers very much for carrying this burden and giving the man the opportunity to do something else or to do some other work. A very warm thank you for that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and Team Stronach.]] Mr. Schultes, you have asked for some understanding. I just want to give an example – understanding always exists –: In Carinthia we have together with to ensure that agricultural products are bought and processed in the local hospitals. This is a very important thing, because these are the best products, but they cost a few cents more. But what I did not understand then is that the President of the Chamber of Commerce said in the post office: But we need to save on staff in the state hospitals! - I don't think that's right. We should go the way: The best quality for our Austrians!, but then we should not hack on the other side on anything and say that we can save it elsewhere. Understanding yes, but please do not in this form! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing has to be clear to us: The rural development programme will be evaluated by 2020 if I have read it properly. And I think it is important that we go away from the land premiums and into the field of labour force, because this will encourage farmers to operate more direct marketing and more offensively enter the Austrian market.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20087	I call Mr Sieber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20108	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to begin by thanking all farmers and farmers, but also all the employees in the agricultural cooperatives, because it is only through the cooperation of farmers and the employees that it is possible to place such excellent products on the market every day, which we all appreciate and which unfortunately are sold too cheaply in the supermarkets. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2015 income situation was truly dramatic: 17 percent less than last year, a third less on average over the past four years. The reasons are relatively clear: There has been a lot of storms – the environment has hit – but above all, falling prices have hit because the markets have gone out of the joints worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen, we must, however, say goodbye to the illusion that politics can make up for it. We have to stop self-discipline: that politics is to blame if it goes badly, and then, if it goes well, politics has nothing to do with it. The situation in mining plants is also quite dramatic and is also to be worked out here. Income fell to an average of €16 722 per holding in the previous year. That's a minus of 23 percent. This means that the mountain farms are 14 per cent below the average of all farms and 26 per cent below the average of non-farm farms. Ladies and gentlemen, today I have heard very much the Chancellor's words, namely that he has recognised this situation and that he wants to achieve an income improvement. But he has not promised that fresh money will have to be taken over for it. He said there must be a redistribution, but, ladies and gentlemen, I did not find a group in agriculture in this Green Report, which I want to take away money because it has too much. [[Keeping them in height]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Slow! Slow down!]] Okay, if we want to discuss this, we'll take out the industrial plants. Let's take her out! And if it's legally possible, we'll take the money away from them, too. [[Abg. Krainer: But where is the money to come from?]] Let us discuss that we cover the compensation payments for the large companies in Austria even further! [[Abg. Krainer: Do you want to increase taxes...?]] The compensatory payments they receive are already degressively calculated, but let us cover them even further, and we hope that they will continue their ecological operation in the future! That's not going to work together! Ladies and gentlemen, we must recognise that the benefits are what we want and want in agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] Much has already been proposed by my colleagues, it has been said what we have done and what we must do. And the sample of nails, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy, will be the suspension of a quarterly social security contribution. Do we really have a suspension here without a refund? – I hope so! [[Abg. Loacker: That would be crazy!]] We are ready to do so because we are working for farmers in Austria. I hope you're there!
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20216	Mrs Ecker. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20237	Mr President. Minister! Yes, we refer to the Green Report on agriculture. I would also like to thank you once again for the creation. Unfortunately – and we could hear this in the speeches of my previous speakers – it does not look good in the field of agriculture. More and more farms must be locked up, and farmers are getting less and less for their products. If someone asks me what it looks like with agricultural support, then I have to say that I am not your opinion, Mr Berlakovich, because the promotions, no, have to be more justly distributed, then the small-structured farm can remain competitive in the West. And I think that's the crucial question. It is unacceptable for me if the small farmers, who already do not deserve anything more, have to get along with even less, as do the promotions. I do not see why large businesses are on average given six times the funding at the same time as they work. No one can explain why a large company receives an average of €78,300 in funding per year, and contrary to that, the small company averages €11,564 per year. Mr Schultes, no, we have no problem with figures, because we know that a quarter of all businesses are negative under the line. Let us therefore finally come together on this question to counter it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, there is another injustice with regard to women. And I am glad that I am the only woman today as a Social Democratic, Mr Minister, who is on this issue. It's a matter of speaking. 23 speakers – I am the only woman. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Tamandl and Mr Schimanek.]] Injustice against women is that they still deserve too little in relation – especially in agriculture. We often speak of a double or even a triple burden among women in agriculture: Mother, agriculture and additional work. The data show it quite clearly: The bigger a farm, the more unlikely it is that it is run by a woman – that is, there is also an injustice. In addition, the various contributions of women to social life come not only from the yard, but also from the village communities. So we all do well with each other when women's work in agriculture is in the future experiencing more public acceptance. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is what I am trying to say to you, Mr Schmuckenschlager, because you have expressed yourself so unqualifiedly before, and this has angered me personally. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Another point I would like to address is greater support for organic farming. I know from my daily work that organic farming pays off. We could observe this at the milk price: Organic milk keeps the price stable, while the price of conventional milk in the cellar raced. Organic agriculture pays off for quality – ultimately as a consequence for all of us – because it pays off because the farmers in this segment earn much more, but also to keep nature intact. In summary, I would like to say to you now: I will continue to work to ensure that not the hectares are promoted, but that people – and especially women – and that organic farming continues to be promoted, because I wish to have access to high-quality, healthy, organic food for all people in this country. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20341	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20362	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Ecker, may I, your speech in the ear, summarize: Women in agriculture are doing a lot, and we are very grateful for that too. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] We are now talking about the Green Report, and I must say that unfortunately last year it has been so that farmers' incomes have fallen. There are two questions for me, as a matter of necessity: Is agriculture still viable, viable and competitive in the future? and: Do the framework conditions agree? First of all: We're powerful. We were able to strengthen or increase domestic sales, through AMA quality stamps, by raising awareness of consumers, by means of procurement directives that we have amended, and through programmes that we voluntarily cooperate with the gastronomy and hotels, which works better, and we were able to increase exports. So: We are powerful! What about the environment? - It'll be a little more difficult. I could also make it easy for myself to do the whole opposition by summarizing everything in the sentence: Nix is what!, but it's not that easy. The decisive thing for our farmers is the price, which unfortunately has fallen in recent years, and the price fluctuations are increasingly felt in agriculture. We need to counter this, and export and domestic sales play a very crucial role. I believe that we need to work even more closely to better balance these price fluctuations and thus provide more stability for the investments of our farmers. But it is not just the price, but we have several problems in agriculture. The increasing conditions of animal and plant protection often overwhelm our farmers. And what does it make sense if we can no longer produce the framework conditions in this area cost-effectively and then get all the agricultural products from abroad where we do not know where they are actually produced? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Who is in favour of CETA?]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: Who is CETA?]] I think that's a very decisive thing. Climate change is also a crucial contribution to agriculture. However, we have created an instrument with which we can compensate for these fluctuations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Where we certainly still need action, is in the area of bureaucracy reduction. These are things that really still burden the farmers very much. One thing we can really say: Our farmers produce food of the highest quality, under very high conditions. We really must thank them for this. However, what we least need in the current situation, where prices are so low, is the sad fact that our farmers are represented as environmental poisons and as animal murderers. This is annoying farmers. I believe that we are particularly required to make even better access to our consumers. If you follow this a little on the net, you see, there are questions that are certainly not representative. For example, the question is asked: Do we still need Austrian agriculture? This shows how far the consumer is from agriculture. That is why we invite a stronger discourse with us and with consumers and thank the farmers for their achievement in drawing up the Green Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20424	The next speaker is Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20445	Mr President. Minister! My colleague, Mr Sieber, I think you are so democratic that you will also extend your request to all employees and all pensioners in Austria in relation to the suspension of a quarterly social security contribution to farmers, because they had real income losses as well as the farmers. Then, Mr Sieber, we have to do this for these groups of people. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] How then? Budget can be financed by your Minister of Finance, you have to clarify that! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] – You've met that, you'll notice that! But, ladies and gentlemen, I am now dealing with a very different point, which also concerns the Green Report, namely the recommendations made by the Section 7 Commission. The §-7 Commission is an expert commission composed of experts from different fields, and this §-7 Commission makes recommendations to Mr Agriculture Minister. The §-7 Commission has made Recommendation 3 and this recommendation, Mr. Federal Minister, concerns large predators and alpine pastures as well as their impact on the mountain landscape. This has been brought in, and it is demanded that... – I come to this, Minister. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] – It is explained that large predators such as the bear, the wolf or the lynx are to be found again in larger stocks in Austria, and the Minister is required that the Fauna-Flora-Habitat Directive for 2017 no longer be extended. Even if that was brought in by an expert we sent to the §-7 Commission, I must say: The figures are wrong, because we do not have large stocks of large predators in Austria. We don't have any more bears. The last bear was shot in Bavaria. To the lynx one has to say that there is no longer any more, because the lynx, which were located in the Hohe Tauern National Park, were shot by hunters. So there's no longer any lynx. And the subject of Wolf is that only walking individual wolves roam our regions and that sheep have been torn by these wolves, namely 68 out of 130. When you look at “Salzburgwiki” – and there are really all the results of all the animals that have been torn by wolves in the last decades in Austria – you can see that almost no sheep were below, because these 68 sheep that have been torn there – and this has been determined by experts based on DNA tests – have been torn by wild dogs and not wolves. That is, they were not torn by wolves, but they were wild dogs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And 2016 is said to have been torn ten sheep. That is why we should now refrain from this Fauna-Flora-Habitat directive and release these animals to fire again. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that can't be the right way. We need these complex protective measures. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] – I’ve already said it was our expert, but our expert doesn’t always have to be right. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say one thing: What this expert said... [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] – Again: I don't care, Minister. What our expert has said here is not the line of our party, but we want you to agree to the extension of the FFH Directive, the Fauna-Flora-Habitat-Directive, by 2017, because we believe that the settlement of these animals is very necessary, that we need it again, because this is the normal environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20544	Mr Grillitsch has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20565	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So I often wonder – also due to such discussions – what the farmers in Austria do and do every day. Name: They deliver exactly what consumers in Austria want: healthy, sustainable, animal-friendly and environmentally sound food that you have on the table every day, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They keep the landscape intact, especially in the mountain areas. This is also an essential basis for tourism in Austria, for the recovery of rural regions. And farmers, if they can invest, create 530 000 jobs. That's an incredible performance! And then we have a Green Report here on which we are getting involved in mutual accusations, where I have to say: This is eternal, so one cannot discuss, especially when this Green Report states that there are large income losses for four years, ladies and gentlemen. There's only one consequence: To think here in this House about the package of measures we can use in a party and in the form of a national shoulder closure, ladies and gentlemen, for example a corresponding tax and cost relief. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Act! Act! Act!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] – Yes, social security contributions: Then you should not be against it if you want to suspend it, ladies and gentlemen, and should not say that it is not fair. The farmers need this very urgently right now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loacker: At the expense of the others!]] Mr Jannach, I really appreciate you, but I ask you: What milk prices did we have in 2007 and 2008 when we had a milk quota? [[Abg. Jannach: Before joining the EU!]] What milk price did we have at the time? . The same as now without milk quotas, Mr Jannach! That is why the milk quota is not the cure for farmers, ladies and gentlemen. My dear friends, let us really go a common path here, we are dealing with a strategy in which it comes at a tax and cost reduction and at fair prices for the farmers! We cannot determine prices at the push of a button – it determines supply and demand the price – but we strengthen, for example, actions such as: 10 percent more domestic food saves 10,000 jobs in this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jannach.]] Let's make an energy strategy! Let us create new markets for farmers, for example, with the Ecostrom Act! We do not immediately grant the solid biomass as an essential part of the climate strategy a clear rejection! We need appropriate solutions so that we can create a new market for forestry and biomass. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the decisive thing for our farmers will be that they can also participate in the most important technology for rural areas, in information technology. We ensure an increased expansion of the fibre-optic network, which must be indivisible for everyone wherever he is at home in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20664	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20686	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Farmers' incomes have fallen – for the fourth year in a row! This is certainly a dramatic development, which one should not speak beautifully. The general market situation is not much better in 2016. With the milk, we hope we've run through the valley sole. In the case of cattle, the pressure is still present. And, of course, it is understandable that the opposition is trying to criticise the Austrian agricultural policy. The question whether that is justified or not is allowed. I say: No, because the crisis is not limited only to Austria, but the crisis concerns all of Europe and is beyond that. Minister Rupprechter, in particular, has set up initiatives to influence the market positively, for example, I recall the many contacts for the acquisition of additional markets. Of course, strong marketing activity and product innovation and quality production are primarily effective. But if you see, ladies and gentlemen, that, especially in the feed industry, especially in the high alpine area and in the mining industry, the biggest income losses have been made, in the amount of 23 percent, then you have to say that you have to put emphasis on that. If you look at the absolute numbers – and you also have to take into account that there is often also an unpaid family labour force – then you can see: With a mountain farm-group 4 operation, it is €9 973, which you earn a year. As a comparison: A self-employed person earns 26 273 €. In view of this, I believe that this group really has to be given massive support. This is not a proper financial charge for their services, on the one hand, over food and on the other hand above environmental performance, but it goes beyond that. When I say environmental performance, I can really look in this direction. [[towards SPÖ]] Mr Schopf and Mrs Ecker, I could discuss with you the issue of fair distribution of funding if these payments were really promoting. But they're not. These payments, which come to the farmers, are a fee for benefits they provide. They will pay for their environmental benefits, and for that they will receive payments. This is the essential difference: There are no social benefits! And the farmers are not beneficiaries of social assistance, but want a fair reward for their food and their environmental benefits. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Well, that's not quite true!]] And then there is the attempt to make the agricultural policy responsible for everything – I now look in your direction, Mr Pirklhuber. [[towards Greens]] There are parties who want to tighten everything up. They want, for example, non-practice regulations and conditions in animal welfare. Yes, do you think that it is really good when the official veterinarian comes with the meter staff – actually, centimetres or millimeters bar – and does it measure whether the animal welfare is given? – This is absolutely non-practice and belongs covered. Do you really think that it is practical to want to map Natura 2000 areas, such as biotope, in every variety, to be determined, to control, to control, to impose on farmers conditions, but not to give them compensation for their performance? [[Abg. Arbitrators: I think so!]] - I don't think so! [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] And now there's also a word to my colleague Dietmar KeckThat's where someone has told you something completely wrong. There was only once Robert Zehentner right, because these 68 sheep have been far away from wild dogs. There was really the culprit's wolf, and that's proven. And now I'm accusing from this point of view: The wolf is not compatible with alpine farming and with mountain farming, as we do in Austria in alpine agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He really needs a habitat, but he should look for it elsewhere in Europe, where he can really have it. [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is the first thing that is right!]] My proposal is: Let's get rid of the farmers! We want practical production conditions. This is not only about farmers, but also about security of supply and the citizens of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank the farmers and, last but not least, consumers and would like to make the following appeal: Buy our local products! This will not only help farmers, but also ensure your own workplace and give your own habitat the same quality of life! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20789	Mr Keck, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20813	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Eßl claimed that the 68 sheep I mentioned in my speech were torn by wolves and I would have made a wrong statement. I'm actually correcting: ‘Almsummer 2015: In the area of the Imbachhorn, which lies between the Fuscher valley and the Kaprun valley, a number of dead sheep are found by farmers, who were probably torn by a wolf. Although wild cameras showed images of a wolf, DNA traces could not be found". – With no sheep torn.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20850	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take note of this report III-307 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, ladies and gentlemen, on the fair distribution of agricultural support and its limitations. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing the same thing. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the names of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official ballots may be used to issue the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of Mr Jannach's motion for a resolution to put 'Yes' vote, those who vote against 'No' vote in the mood. Please also make sure that you do not use two ballots. I would ask the author, Mrs Lueger, to begin with the name call; Mr Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20933	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e20971	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 137; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 44, No votes: 93. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jannach, ladies and gentlemen, on the fair distribution of agricultural support and its restrictions, is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Angerer, Aslan; Bosch, Brosz, Bruckl, Brunner; Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Glavischig-Piesczek; port plotters, sharks, housers, hoebarts, moorings; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Klinger, Korun, Kumpitsch; Lasar, Lausch, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Pirklhuber; Riemer, Rosary Walter, Rossmann; Schellenbacher, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache; Walser, Windbüchler-Sushill, Worm Peter. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Bernhard, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Eßl; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Klug, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lipitsch, loacker, lopatka, lueger Angela; Matznetter, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rauch Johannes; Schabhüttl, Schellhorn, Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Strasser; Tamandl, By; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vetter; Wenninger, tiny, Wittmann, Weeinger; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21147	We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on 'Re-introduction of mineral oil tax exemption in the case of agricultural diesel'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – That's the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, ladies and gentlemen, on the Quality Seal Act. If you vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for an acceptable sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[21:09:22]] 12. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the District Court of the Interior of Vienna, 15 U 90/16h-14, for approval of the official persecution of Members to the National Council of Club Ms Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek(1297 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21199	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I don't have a word message. [[21:10:21]] We therefore come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 1297 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the District Court of the Inner City of Vienna, 15 U 90/16 h-14, for approval of the official persecution of Members to the National Council of Club Ms. Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczekwege of the suspicion of a criminal Action according to § 111 para. 1 StGB is used in accordance with Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the criminal act alleged by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the delegates to the National Council of Club Ms. Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek. Therefore, an official persecution of the MPs is not approved by the National Council of Club Ms. Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:11:46]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2016-10-13-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00148_d8e21265	I announce that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications 1865/A(E) until 1878/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 9 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
