ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e18	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 20 June 2008: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 20 June 2008 at 2.30 p.m. 18.00 has been decided: the composition of the Government shall be amended as follows: 20 June 2008 at 18.00 p.m. 18.45: Åslaug Marie Haga is dismissed from office as a member of the King's council. Prime Minister Lars Peder Breck is appointed to the Council of State and takes over the board of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Government Council Dag Terje Andersen takes over the board of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen takes over from the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Councillor Sylvia Kristin Brustad takes over from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Councillor Terje Riis-Johansen takes over from the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The following State Secretaries shall be appointed by courtesy from 20 June 2008 at 10 a.m. 18.45: State Secretary Life Monica Bargem Stubholt for Council of State Åslaug Marie Haga State Secretary Guri Størvold for Council of State Åslaug Marie Haga State Secretary Eye Wind Strike for Council of State Day Terje Andersen State Secretary Rikke Lind for Council of State Day Terje Andersen Department Constituent State Secretary Annelenen Swing for Council of State Day Terje Andersen State Secretary Jan-Erik Støstad for Council of State Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Secretary Libe S. Rieber-Mohn for Council of State Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Secretary Laila Gustavsen for Council of State Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Secretary Raimo Valle for Council of State Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Secretary for Council of State Aasrud for Council of State Sylvia Kristin Henriksen State Secretary of State Bjarne Håkon Hansen State Minister for Council of State Sylvia Håkon Hanssen Minister of State Sylvia Håkon Hansen Minister of State 18.45: State Secretary Ola T. Heggem for the Council of State Lars Peder Brekk State Secretary Jan-Erik Støstad for the Council of State Day Terje Andersen State Secretary Libe S. Rieber-Mohn for the Council of State Day Terje Andersen State Secretary Laila Gustavsen for the Council of State Day Terje Andersen State Secretary Raimo Valle for the Council of State Day Terje Andersen State Secretary Rigmor Aasrud for the Council of State Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Secretary Kari Henriksen for the Council of State Bjarne Håkon Hanssen Vara Representative Dagfinn Health grant for the Council of State Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Secretary Øyvind Såke for the Council of State Sylvia Håkon Brustad State Secretary of State Lind for the Council of State Sylvia Kristin Brustad Department Constitudin State Secretary for the Council of State Sylvia Kristin Brustad Såkon Hanssen State Secretary for the Council of State has been appointed for the Council of State and the Council of State for the Council of State and the Government of the Government of the Member States of the Council of the State of the Council of the Council of Strikes of Strikes and the Council of Striks and the Council of Striks and the Council of Striks and the Council of Strikes and the Council of the Council of the Council of Strikes of Strikes and the Council of the Council of State of the State of St Barylvia of Stylvia Rylvia Rylvia the State of St Barhols of St the State for the State of St Ben Ben Ben Ben Ben Ben Ben Ben Ben Ben Ben Ben Ben Ben Ben Ben for the State for the State for the State for the State for the State This also applies to government councils and state secretaries who have State employment permits. If they have been added to the annual target position, the end of the annual target shall be postponed for a period corresponding to the time they have served as State Council or State Secretary. In the event of resignation, quarantine and/or procedural prohibitions may be imposed in accordance with specific guidelines laid down by the Ministry of Modernisation at that time, now the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. In the event of a transition to a position outside central government, specific provisions of the guidelines on information obligations and conventional fines shall apply.’;» The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the Minutes - and considered adopted. First Deputy of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Anna Cesilie Brustad Moe, takes the seat of the representative of the time Lars Peder Breck is a member of the Government. The representatives of Olav Gunnar Ballo, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Inger S. Enger and Torfinn Opheim, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from Bendiks H. Arnesen, Trine Skei Grande, Gjermund Hagesetter, Eva Kristin Hansen and Lena Jensen on leave from 22 September to 30 September, and from the representative of Anders Anundsen on leave from 23 September to 30 September, all to attend the 63rd General Assembly of the United Nations in New York from May-Helen Molver Grimstad and Irene Johansen on leave from 22 September to 30 September in order to take part in the harvest course of the United Nations High School of the Workers' Party on sick leave of the representative Rolf Terje Klungland from 22 September to 30 September and until further from the Central Party on sick leave of the representative Åslauga Haga from 22 September to 30 September and until further from the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes on leave in days 25 and 26 September in the chair of the group of the Interparliamentary Union in the preparation of the United Nations General Assembly. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the West Agder State: Tom Rune Thorvaldsen For Akershus County: Kari Mette Prestrud For the county of Hordaland: Georg Indrevik For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Modulf Supplement For Oslo: Alvhild Hedstein For the Province of Rogaland: Siri A. Meling For Troms County: Knut Werner Hansen and Ole-Anton Tegen For South-Trundellag County: Knut Tomb For the Westfold province: Jan Fredrik Vogt For Eastfold County: Thor Erik Forsberg - It is deemed to have been adopted. Modulf Aukan, Siri A. Meling and Thor Erik Forsberg are proposed for the time they meet for representatives May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Finn Martin Vallersnes and Irene Johansen respectively. - It's also considered to be adopted. Tom Rune Thorvaldsen, Kari Mette Prestrud, Georg Indrevik, Modulf Aukan, Alvhild Hedstein, Knut Werner Hansen, Ole-Anton Teigen, Knut Gravråk and Thor Erik Forsberg are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e238	The representative, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, will present two draft constitutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e241	On behalf of the big business representatives Kåre Fostervold, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I am delighted to promote two constitutional proposals. The first proposal concerns the repeal of the Grundgesetz § 107 on the law of nobility and liability. The second concerns amendments to the Basic Law § 75 with a view to facilitating a greater degree of stability and clarity in policy and in the framework conditions for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e248	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will present a draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e251	On behalf of the representatives of Anders Anundsen, Carl I. Hagen, Lodve Solholm and myself, I would like to make a preliminary draft law repealing the first paragraph of Section 12 of the Basic Law, the third paragraph of Section 12 of Section 18-22, the first paragraph of Section 25 and the first paragraph of Section 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e256	The representative, Mr Halleraker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e259	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Trond Helleland, Svein Flätten and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for immediate action to prevent serious road accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e265	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e268	On behalf of the representatives Per Sandberg, Arne Sortevik, Anders Anundsen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for remedial action immediately against the increase in roadside fatalities. On behalf of the representatives Per Sandberg, Arne Sortevik and myself, I would like to make a proposal to submit a separate notification on road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e275	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that the scheduled meeting at Laginget on Thursday 25 September is set at 10 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox This is to be sure that three days have elapsed between the Odelsting decision and the Lamentations treatment. - No objection has been raised against this, and it is deemed to have been adopted. There is no agenda for the debate. 103, which contains only one case, Unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e449	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? Erna Solberg. On the situation in the police
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e455	I have in a letter to the Presidency asked that we get a statement, or briefing, from the Minister of Justice on the situation in the police at the moment, based on the headlines that have been in the media in recent times. It is that security is perhaps the most fundamental well-being there is. We set up the real nation-states to ensure physical security for people. When you talk about well-being, don't forget that more and more policing spaces create insecurity for many in our society. At the moment, we have a situation where it seems that the number of the police empty spaces is increasing. In Oslo, the police themselves believe that there must be 20 police officers out there as an absolute minimum solution in order to maintain control of the Oslo Centre during the weekends. According to the media and other information, there were seven police officers on duty in Oslo last weekend. The night to Sunday was the operating centre of Rome closed for two hours. In Oslo, a number of emergency calls were not answered, because there was simply no capacity to pick up the phone. In Stavanger, the entire specialty unit in the police department has withdrawn. In Bergen, we had a situation where the police, because they were busy for a few hours on the medic, didn't have policemen out to ensure peace, neither Friday night nor Saturday night. The Police Chamber in Bergen has had to ask the municipality for help to build and operate surveillance cameras in exposed centre lines and to implement other measures to help the police. In general, there is a precarious shortage of police resources across the country. We already know that hundreds of jobs are unoccupied to get the budgets to go around. But it seems now that the police crew on weekends are lower and more drastic than ever. It also seems that police staff on weekends depend on police officers working overtime. One thing you know from the crime statistics, and that's that the violence episodes are happening night to Saturday and night to Sunday. You also know pretty well where they happen. Many of them happen in the center of the big cities at a time when it looks like the police crew is totally dependent on all policemen going overtime. So one of the pillars of security and security in our society is an overtime based system. It is, in my and the Right's opinion, totally unacceptable that we have come up in such a situation. The security of the population really depends on the fact that the police can move out when people need help. You don't have to open a lot of newspapers to see that a lot of people don't experience that that's the case. People are asked to report back again during the weekend, or people feel that the phone is not being picked up at all. Is that so because the police seem to have an action to say no to overtime, and that we should maximize crisis? No, but it reveals one thing: it reveals that the basic staffing of the police can't be good enough if there are only seven policemen on guard night to Sunday and during the weekend in Oslo center. We know that that's when the violence episodes happen, and that's when one has to be present with visible police to keep order and order. It's not just an Oslo phenomenon either. The same kind of reports come from Stavanger and from Bergen, and the Rome police chamber was--as mentioned--closed for two hours, and then they could not pick up the phone or give messages. This is a matter of fundamental security. My question to the Minister of Justice is: Does the Council of State think that in such a situation the police are able to take care of people's security and security, or does he now have any measures to help increase security?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e470	Initially, I would like to mention that I have now visited all the police departments in the country - some remain. The impression I'm left with is that there's a lot of good police work done in Norway. The statistics also show us that crime in Norway is falling into several areas in several districts. I have just visited the violence and morality section in the Oslo Police District, which is, moreover, reinforced by 16 posts. I was impressed by the efforts and results they could report. All the murder cases in Oslo this year have been solved, and several serial rape cases are being clarified. Another example I would like to mention is from Helgeland Police District, where they have a strong decline of 43 p.m. in the case of theft of profits in recent years, and 20 pst. on the crime of violence. Nevertheless, I agree with the parliamentary leader of the Right, Erna Solberg, that there is reason to be concerned about the manpower situation in the police, and that action is required. One can be particularly concerned when reading and hearing in the media about the kind of situational description such as: is given about Oslo Police District 14.9.2008, i.e. night until last Sunday. This has given me the basis to obtain further information from the police department and the police chief in Oslo, and also, on the basis of questions raised here, from the chief of police in Rogaland. It is claimed in the question that night to Sunday 14.9.2008 was the situation in Oslo: there were only seven policemen at work in Oslo Centre. Usually, for security reasons, the police do not go out with detailed information on the manning of the individual days. In the light of this look-up and this debate, however, this time I will provide concrete information based on information from the Oslo police district, not least in order to create a more accurate picture, in my opinion, but also in order to provide the necessary security for us who live in Oslo. I have received the following information from the Oslo Police District about this night: the Oslo Police Station was staffed by one operation manager and four operators. There were eight effort units available this night in Oslo, manned by two or three officials. These effort units are used throughout Oslo, regardless of which police station they belong in. The Operation Centre uses the resources where there is the most need, both reactively and proactively. It's always been like that, and so it should be. In addition, nine other operational units were available to the operating centre if the situation so required. These are units that may consist of one or more officials, they are lead cars, police helicopters, etc. In total, 43 officials were on duty. In addition, three come to the police helicopter. This is lower than the normal manning on weekends. Visepolitimer Sponheim tried to correct the information contained in the entry on TV 2, which is alleged to come from the Oslo Police Association, but it was not included in the broadcast. Sick if Oslo police districts could wish for more available police patrols to make their way through the night shifts this weekend, the police chief doesn't consider the situation to be critical at any time. I have been informed that the last weekend was a better situation. It was also claimed that 400 telephone calls were not answered, 15 emergency calls to the phone number 112 remained unanswered and 65 orders were never performed. I have received the following briefing from the Oslo Police District on this: Operation Commander has stated that the night until 14 September 2008 in the period from 1 p.m. 22:00-06:00. 130 orders were logged. 535 regular telephone calls were recorded. 124 of these were not answered. 128 calls were answered to the emergency number 112. Six were unanswered. It is not unusual for a call of 112 to be registered as unanswered. If dialling waits 1 second and then hangs, the enquiry is recorded as unanswered. Furthermore, the operating centre receives up to dozens of requests for the same event since everyone has a mobile phone and will notify them of what they see. Unanswered calls are not the same as those who did not receive a response were in an emergency where they needed immediate help from the police. The number of categorised telephone calls as described here can be considered to be an approximate normal situation for the police district. Of the logged tasks, 27 have been completed with the code ‘non-capacity’ – 27. 16 of these were messages about noise/high music. The others were of a similar less serious nature. It was also claimed that suspicions of pro-mille driving, finding of a dead person, a fire stop and a violent incident were among the cases that were not followed up this night. I have received the following reply from the Oslo police district: One fire notification was registered: fire in the garbage box at a nursery in the Lower Principality. The patrol from the Manglerud police station was on site and followed up with a report on the matter. Then to the death. No deaths were recorded in the Operational Centre log, reports Oslo police districts, and no reports of pro-mille driving on which no police resources were put. Two incidents were recorded about the same violence incident at Oslo S, where the police patrol was not sent out. The police patrol was not re-prioritized from another mission, as it was informed that insults had escaped the perpetrators. I think it's unfortunate that there's going to be so much negative focus on Oslo police districts and, in my opinion, also an incorrect description of the district's situation. In my opinion, the district is doing very good police work, and the employees are also doing a glittering police effort in many very demanding fields. We have major and important tasks as capital police. We see that in many of these areas, there is a great deal of good delivery in Oslo in terms of both trafficking, repeat crime, repeat crime and organised crime. So a little bit about the resource development of Oslo police districts. Over the period 2000-2008, the Oslo Police District increased its budget from 973 million. NOK 1.480 billion, i.e. a nominal increase of 507 million. kr - 52 pst. Compensation for the rise in wages and prices amounts to approx. 300 million. kr. In reality, the increase is greater. This is related to the transfer of tasks related to the foreign affairs to the Police Foreign Unit at its inception in 2004 and the transfer of responsibility for the lifeguard service to the Police Security Service in 2006. The draft budget for 2008 under Chapter. 441, Oslo Police District, has increased by 5.2 pst. - 73.6 million. kr - from the 2007 budget. If price increase and compensation of salary of 38,2 million. kr is subtracted, but there is an increase of 35,4 million. kr. In addition, additional 4 million revised national budget appropriations will be made available. to strengthen the foreign administration. In addition, the Police Directorate supervised the Oslo Police District in September-October 2007. There is a great deal of positive in the report, but there are also some areas where the Directorate of Police believes that the district has opportunities to improve. The Police Directorate will follow up on some of the issues in the ordinary governance dialogue in the future, a work that we in the Ministry of Justice follow closely. In addition, on behalf of the Directorate of Police, AGENDA, the consultancy has carried out an investigation into how much of the police's resources are spent on paying and renting premises. Phase 2 of this work is an examination of how the police use the resources allocated and whether this is consistent with the political and professional leadership given. In consultation with the police director, I believe that the Oslo police district should pay particular attention to this investigation. The reason for this is that the police district has its own budget chapter, and that both management and trade union organisations have long-standing evidence of resource shortages in a number of important areas. I believe that this is the basis for taking the situation in Oslo very seriously, searing about the information that I have received, in very close proximity is as alarming as the source of the question. I will therefore continue to follow developments in Oslo closely. It was also claimed that in Stavanger, the entire Special Force has withdrawn, and policemen do not pick up the phone when the guard calls. There I have received the following reply from Rogaland Police District: It leads to a certain degree of correctness that officials do not pick up the phone when the janitor calls, creating problems for the police district in ordering officials to ensure adequate staffing. However, with good and early planning, the police district has made it clear that it is well-managed in the district so far. The Chief of Police will also order personnel from the Special Forces or Emergency Unit to the extent that situations arise where this is necessary in order to solve the tasks of the Police District. This is also a situation we are following very closely. So a little bit about the main challenge for the police across the whole country. I agree with those questions. The main challenge we face in the case of Norwegian police is that we need more police officers. All the parties in this room have agreed on this, and that is also the reason why the government has in the last two or three years decided to strengthen the allocation to the police and the prosecution with more than half a billion dollars, about 260 million. kr during 2006 and 2007 and 245 mill. kr in 2008. In addition, the police were strengthened with a total of 73.5 million. kr in the revised national budget. In addition, we have now received the crew report ‘Police against 2020’, where the Police Directorate is reviewing the educational and staffing needs of the police and of other trained personnel. The Police Directorate recommends that police personnel be increased by 2 700 police officers and 1 000 civilian posts by 2020. Parts of the crew plan have already been started, among others. in the Oslo Police District, by employing civilian detainees to release police officers for operational work. This is absolutely necessary. There are not many available policemen in Norway anymore. We depend on getting the police officers out of more administrative positions and into operational service. In several districts, senior policy measures have also been taken to make police officers postpone retirement. The most important thing about the police situation is the admissions at the Police College. During the Bondevik II government, students recorded over the four years from 2002 to 2005 a total of 1 128 students. Experience has shown that this was too low. In other words, the number of trained police today is too low to meet the need we have in relation to departure. The government therefore increased the admission to high-ranking 432 students at the Police College in 2007 and 2008. years. Even after three years with this government, the recording is higher -- there are 1,224 students -- than the Bondevik II government had in four years. Proposals for admission in 2009 will be presented on 7 October. As far as police personnel are concerned, it is important that we think in the long term. I would also like to mention that a number of other measures have been taken to improve the police's resource situation. On 1 September this year, we launched the major DNA reform. In the long term, our ambition is that DNA registration will help clear up more burglaries, raise the percentage of intelligence and improve police power and resources by using increased technology. As of 1 September, we have central funding for DNA analyses, which contribute to multiple samples being taken. We're lowering the threshold for who's to be registered, and hopefully the clearance rate will increase, which is very necessary for many districts. Increased efforts have been made to combat recriminalism and to increase efforts to combat economic crime, including: with its own whitewashing system and 30 million. kr for the investigation of a specific case. In order to meet today’s threat and protection needs, service-adapted protective equipment for police officers has been developed and purchased. The planned replacement of protective equipment is now in full swing. New pistols will be acquired during 2008 and training will be given. In addition, the introduction of a new emergency network. The size has adopted the implementation of a first development area within a cost-framework of 900 million. 2006-krona. This is one of the major investments we are facing, including: In the police. New settlements have been created. Prisons are of great importance to the police's work by not having a pay queue and being able to put people in custody, which in some cases is also about what kind of police force we are facing. Finally, it is not my job in the government to conduct wage negotiations with the police. However, I would like to remind you that it is the Minister of Renewal and Administration who through the Services Dispute Act § 31 and kgl. the resolution is responsible for concluding central collective agreements on behalf of the State. The main tariff agreement and the main agreement are the main agreements concluded by the Ministry of Consumer and Administration. In addition, some key specific agreements are concluded. The Ministry of Consumers and Administration negotiates exclusively with the main associations: LO State, YS State, Union and Academics. The League of Police is a special union in the Union. As regards the negotiations which were, I would just like to point out that, in a press release on 26 June 2008 following the adjustment negotiations, the negotiator of the Union, Arne Johannessen, stated the following: ‘The negotiations have been tough. As it developed, I'm satisfied with the result. The State has shown its willingness to meet us on the main priorities of our highest-ranking police." [[police officers]] In addition, the majority of the members of the Fellsförbund voted ‘yes’ to the outcome of the negotiations. So in the end, in the case of sick leave in the police and county seats, I find reason to state that it has traditionally been somewhat lower than the average in the state. Sick leave in 2007 was a total of 5.16 p.m. in the Police and Lone Civil Service. Total in the state was sick leave of 6 pst. in the first quarter of this year. I'm very concerned that the people can feel confident that the police will move out if necessary. The recent crew report shows that we have an average response time in Norway — in this long-term country — of between 9 and 10 minutes. Nevertheless, I am of the opinion that it is right to continue the efforts of the Government by both granting more money to the police - it has never been granted as much money as it does today - and increasing the admissions to the Police College. We need to free up more civilians, and we need to put in place active senior policy measures. The police director has met with all the police officers on the current situation we are in, and will receive reports on extraordinary situations in the individual police districts. This is a situation that the Ministry of Justice follows very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e530	In accordance with common practice, the President proposes that an entry be made up to 5 minutes from each lot, with a brief reply from Erna Solberg and the Council of State Knut Storberget at the end. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e533	I'm glad that Erna Solberg is asking questions about the situation in the police, because it gives a good opportunity to come up with the facts in the case. I think it is a pity that incorrect information has remained undisputed for so long. In the thorough review of the crew situation in Oslo on the current night to which Erna Solberg refers, it appears that a much higher number of police patrols were operating than what has been described. In addition, it is not correct that the number of telephone calls and emergency calls were not answered. I understand that the police feel that they are working under pressure and have a tight frame, but it is important that there is no false and more dramatic picture of the situation than it actually is. It only contributes to the creation of population insecurity. Here we, as politicians and the police themselves, have a special responsibility. But I am also concerned about producing all the good results that policemen deliver every day across the country. In Oslo, for example, the stop group and the redundancy project have identified several cases of serious organised crime, and they have a strong focus on this. If money had been the only solution, and if all the measures had had immediate effect, it would have been easy to be a politician. Unfortunately, it's not like that. From the first day, the red-green government has systematically and focused on the challenges facing the police. The main challenge is related to the manning situation. This is not a new situation. This was also a problem under the previous government. Nevertheless, the Right Party, Christian People's Party, and the Left Party of the Government did not choose to address the situation. In 2003, 240 students were admitted to police training. This government has increased recording to a high 432. Such an increase will in itself mean nearly 200 more policemen in the streets every year. The first thing that met with the red-green government when we took over was a cut-off proposal that applied to the Oslo police. In addition, in its first alternative budget, the Right proposed a further cut in the police operating budget. We've done the opposite. We have increased the budget for the police by over half a billion kroner. I have noticed that the Right Judicial Spokesman in an article in the North Light criticises the Red-Green Government for believing that any problem can be solved with more money, and that we lack the ability to convert. I am going to give Aspaker the right idea that more money is not enough as a response alone, and as she herself says, it is far more important that the money is spent wisely. That is why we have strengthened the police, but we have also implemented comprehensive organisational measures. We ordered a crew report, which we are now in the process of following up. In addition to increasing the recording at the Police College, we are working to better organise the police. Trained police officers need to become more active, and the tasks that can equally be performed by civilians should be carried out by civilians. In addition, we are working on measures to keep older policemen out of work. I feel the need to link some comments to the campaign that these days are run by the Police Joint Association on pay issues. In the spring, there was a central pay settlement. The Joint Police Association took part in the wage settlement as part of the Union. When the agreement was concluded, Unio's negotiator and head of the Joint Association of Police, Arne Johannessen, said that he was satisfied with the result. The state has shown its willingness to meet us on our main priorities, he said. The Joint Association of Police shall be responsible for the interests of its members. But it is not unproblematic that this kind of wage struggle is not the case with the wage negotiations that PF is currently doing. For the parties to the negotiated agreement, this creates uncertainty. We are facing both organisational and manning challenges in the police. However, the manning situation is in many ways the story of a notified crisis. Had the Bondevik II government taken seriously, the situation would not be as demanding as it is today. Fortunately, we have a government that has realized the seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e554	It would have been tempting and perhaps natural to start by giving a commendable comment to the Right, and at the same time reminding Right that during the 2004 budget negotiations, the Right also cut, along with our current Minister of Justice, in the police budget. If you're going to be honest and honest with history, maybe you should bring those facts with you too. In addition, I guess it was, at least in my opinion, that the previous Minister of Justice was having trouble financing his wishes, and did so, among other things. through little popular measures as a significant increase in the rates of charges for traffic offences, etc. and not least by introducing a partiality in free legal aid. It was, good people, while the Right had the Minister of Finance, in the last government -- just so we're reminded of the background here. When this is said, it would have been tempting to say, Hallelujah, the crisis is canceled. You might not be able to say that from here. But after listening to the State Council and the head of the Justice Committee, I wonder if everyone out there who actually feels that it takes a long time to get help is wrong. Is it like they're walking around and daydreaming? Is that how the papers write about is something they've dictated themselves? Or is it that PF has become directly irreparable? I understood - at least in the previous period - that PF was very often a witness to the truth of the then opposition politician Knut Storberget. It might not be like that when you change hats and become a state councillor, but there might be reasons for that too. What I think we have to agree on, and I think it's important to focus on, is that the Norwegian police do a fantastic good job evenly over. At the same time, I also believe that there is a discrepancy between the expectations people have for the police, the laws of Stortinget - Odelstinget - adopt, and the job to be done afterwards. And when there's an aberration here, it's often the police who end up in the shot line and get the fuck out of the way that they don't deliver the job that everyone else expects. It is, in my opinion, a clear political responsibility. It's the Storting that draws up the legal framework, and not least for the economics, in terms of the problems we're going to solve. Having said that, I think we're going to go further in recognising that we have a job to do, we need to see if extraordinary measures are needed. Our current Minister of Justice and the previous one have, in my opinion, been arguing for three years about who has been the best in the class in training more policemen. It may also be correct and timely to take such a discussion, but I do not know if it helps so much today. I don't think it helps today. What I think we need to do is focus on what we can do now to solve the acute challenges we have, and how we can think in the long term and solve the future challenges we're going to have. For my part, I think it's about looking at what's the reason people end up in the police. Why join the police and move to other professions when we so desperately need them? Is it because the conditions are better? Why do you end up in a state agency and go to another one? Is it because there are large wage differences within the state apparatus, which makes it more attractive, for example. working in the Air Safety Authority than working in the Norwegian police? I think you have to figure out what's the reason we're losing these. Another thing we should do at my discretion is look at those who have access to get rid of the so-called early retirement pension after agreement. Is there any way to get them to do more work, so we take care of the skills they have? It's, in my opinion, something of the most important thing we do. Then we'd rather keep the police force and take care of the employees than let them go out of service. The only ones who make sense that they end up with long experience in the police are the criminals, and the task of the police is just to fight this kind of thing. I therefore hope that the Council of State will also take these things and look at them. I also think it makes sense to look at the division of tasks of the police. It's not necessarily that all the police are doing today, it makes sense that they will continue to do tomorrow. I think it makes sense that you stop and look at the problem distribution at regular intervals and whether it can be done in a different way. I also believe that technical solutions, such as modern equipment, can also help to make Norwegian police more effective than it is. I have experienced for myself that the Council of State has told of visits to former Eastern Europe, which had technical equipment that we lack. It shouldn't be like that. Nevertheless, I perceive that this is the case in some contexts. I think we're going to solve this, at least we have to focus on what we want to achieve. If we want the population to have a high level of security, that they should be able to trust the police to set up when they need help, we have to do a job. For me, good police services are a welfare service. That's one of the things you get left after you pay your tax. It should be part of the services that the State will provide, especially in the light of the police law §§ 1 and 2, which I think is quite clear in this way. Let me conclude by saying that the Council of State sometimes boasts that he has removed the reconciliation queue. I think with respect to report that through it and through his lack of commitment to the Norwegian police, he has made it easier to be a criminal in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e580	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for a good and informative presentation. I am pleased that the description of the police situation given by the High Representative, Erna Solberg, in his question is rejected by the Minister of Justice. Norwegian citizens are entitled to security and protection from the police. It is therefore important that we get an accurate description of the police situation so that we do not create an unnecessary uncertainty in the population and undermine the power of the police in our country and our society. We see that there are challenges in the police, and we take these seriously. When we took over the government offices, the delegation to the Oslo police from the government in the right was cut in the budget. We fixed up 6 million. NOK of this cut in our additional proposition. In addition, the Right proposed a cut of 8,5 million. to the police in their first alternative budget. The red-green government has greatly increased the police budgets, but there are also other interventions that have been important to address the challenges facing the police. We took the initiative to draw up a report on the staffing needs. The government received this report from the Police Directorate this spring, and it is concerned with the need for police personnel by 2020. We intend to follow up on this report. It is an important basis for work. It is true that today the police have a challenge in terms of the manning situation. It's simply because -- if we look back a little bit, as both the Minister of Justice and the Labour Party politicians were inside -- the number of police students was reduced to a low. The Bondevik government chose to downgrade the number of students at the Politihøgskolan to a bulwark level in 2003. Our government has therefore taken responsibility for the manning situation in the police. To get policemen out in the streets, we have to train enough policemen. In 2007 we increased the recording at Police College to record 432 students. This is an increase of almost 200 students. Several competent police officers allow us to achieve the objectives of better prevention, response faster and clarification. In addition, it is important to facilitate further work for older, experienced, skilled policemen. Two weeks ago, I visited Manglerud Police Station in Oslo and was briefed on their work. There, as elsewhere, there is a great and good work effort. We got an introduction to the prevention work aimed at children and young people. One challenge they posed was cooperation with the other levels, especially child protection. Cooperation was good, but with previous efforts for children and young people at risk, the police will also free up time for other work. I'm going to visit the Oslo Police Chamber in a couple of weeks. I want to do this to get the most information and knowledge about the challenges the police are facing. Things are related. When the Right presented their alcohol policy action plan to the capital before the summer, they were severely criticised by the police. The police thought that the proposal would help them to use a lot of resources to deal with the orderly situation, as a direct result of the bulwark policy, resources they sorely needed to combat everyday crime. We are pleased that the Right has taken sense and according to today's Evening Post wants to turn the cranes back. Finally, the SV and the Government are concerned with the safety and security of the Norwegian people. It is our shared responsibility that we do not contribute to creating unnecessary uncertainty. People should be able to trust that the police are there when they need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e601	The Minister of Justice agreed that there was cause for concern and that there was a need for action. Then we heard first and foremost defences and explanations, but little about what kind of action the Minister of Justice will put forward in the future. It expects Stortinget to get a much better and broader account of it than the one that was given today. I guess it'll be on October 7th, as the Minister of Justice announced. I think it's obvious that the police's operating resources are too scarce. The police have received too little of the 150 billion additional tax dollars that have been available since 2005. New working time regulations have provided a less operational police force, and we need an impact assessment of these. Senior policy must be strengthened. There is too much disembarkation of pre-age police to other occupations and activities. Organisation is, as in the health sector, also an important key in the police for better use of resources. Police must concentrate on police work. Civil servants can do more of the routine work. I'm convinced of that. Then we have to get a completely different focus on the big cities situation. Stavanger was mentioned here. What the Minister of Justice could begin with was treating this region as a metropolitan region, as other metropolitan regions are treated when resources are allocated. And last but not least, education capacity is important. I think there was a lot of good defense in what was said, but it strikes me that the council, and in particular his weaponsmen here in the hall, are most concerned about--over three years into this ageing period-- blaming on the pastors when things don't go exactly as they had thought. I would like to declare that I think the time for such excuses should be over for this government. Now they have to take responsibility for themselves. I have been on police patrols at night both here in the city and in Stavanger, and there is one issue that neither Erna Solberg nor the Council of State have touched on at all here today, which is one of the main reasons why the need for resources is so great at night in the weekends in our big cities. It is the crazy peddling policy that the political majority in our big cities have faced in recent years, which means that police patrols' efforts and attention are being drawn towards unrest, strife and violence in and around the city's centres, instead of the important and good police work that should be done all over the city at these times. If there are colleagues here who have not experienced this, I would say, invite you with a police patrol at night in one of our big cities and see what has happened to the security of this open room that should be a meeting place for everyone. There is no longer a meeting place for everyone. I can recommend the reading of the report to which Mr Akhtar Chaudhry referred, with the opinion of the Oslo Police on the Plan of Action of the Right and the Advance Party Council in this city. I am very pleased with the signals that are now coming from the Right in national politics. I hope that also affects local policy. Because I have to tell my good friends in the Right and in other parties that as long as you're not willing to take over these facts, the tears you fall over the difficult resource situation of the police, just a lot of crocodile tears.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e616	The Minister of Justice has done well for the work of the Government on police preparedness in the country. It was a clarifying orientation, which shows that the situation we get an image of through the media is often more complex than what is being produced. There are several reasons for the manning shortage situation. The new working time rules have been opened for one reason. They make the watch arrangements we've had now less flexible. They need a bigger crew. We in the Center Party are concerned that people throughout the country should know security. Less flexible watch arrangements can lead to an increase in response time in many places in the country, and this concerns us in the Center Party. We're concerned that people in the whole country should have an equivalent offer even when it comes to police officers. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Justice says so clearly that one takes this issue seriously. One has also shown that the government has contributed resources to the police and has increased the recording on the Police Hill monthly. More recent events show that, in the future, there will also be a need for a strong focus on ensuring good police preparedness and ensuring a good provision of police services across the country. The centre party wants, like the other party, more police officers both in Oslo and in the rest of the country. In addition to preparedness, police prevention is particularly important, as it must prevent future crime. Depriving this work will be a very poor investment. The solution to today's challenges must be in close dialogue with those working in the police. Resources for new positions, sufficient with students at the Police School, even better vigilance, and not least, as the Minister of Justice also pointed out, a good senior policy that makes more police officers stand longer in work, are important measures that should be considered. In addition to recruiting new staff, it is important to be able to keep track of those who are already doing a lot of work in the police service. The centre party will have a lot of attention on the situation around the police even in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e630	It is a socialist Swedish parole that is good and that should apply in today's debate. It is called "Be proud, but not satisfied". Be proud of the job you are doing, but be “not satisfied” because there can always be something more to do. I have to be quite specific. I have also practised this exercise, which is called to conduct policies in general and politics for a number of years. I believe that one of the most important things in the police now is to hold on to the line that State Council Storberget has pointed to, and that the police director has proposed, namely to increase the admission to the Police College to at least 560. It's a view of the Left Parts, and there's a view of the Left presented in 2007. Given the difference in how we now have, let's say, administrative capacity to investigate things, the Left's escalation plan and the police director's plan are virtually overlapping. The second part of the police director's plan, which I believe has good validity - not least in Oslo, which the Council of State points to, but also elsewhere - is putting people into civil positions. It's obviously completely wrong in the TV screens we see, that there's a lot of policemen in the courtrooms. It's clear that by taking a grip, it's possible to do something about it. Then I have learned after working with the field workers in different professions for 15 years that these field workers, these police general practitioners, have too little status, career and position. It is a management task, both politically and professionally, to ensure that the police's law-enforcement service receives pay-as-you-go career paths that reward them for being in this job, and that they are given the building of competence that gives them status. All of us who have been for a while know that there is often a status in the police when they move into an office, while being the police's general practice, which several of the representatives have been involved in, and which was also involved in, requires an operational approach that can be taken politically professionally. I would strongly encourage that to happen. There is no doubt that it alone will not solve any of the challenges, but it will affect some of the challenges described here about how many are at work when. When several, even a very offensive and ongoing trade union leader, who I have called in his presence, without blazing earlier myself, the head of a trade union that is a crossroads between the elevator operators and air traffic controllers, says that one should look for an intelligent senior policy - and we have policemen who do it - it is clearly an independent point to develop this senior policy. Not everyone in the police will go on the special age limit that you have, and taking care of experienced people should be done. I'm not going to mention examples. Some have even advertised their willingness in the media, without it being, seen from the outside, reacted in any way. I think that the great job the police did in their time, and that was called a police reform, was a necessary step, but not a sufficient step to meet our time. That is what has now been contributed to, on the manpower side, to which the Left has put forward proposals, which have been referred to by the Council of State and which have been proposed by the Police Director. But I think it's always in the police -- I think it's always in all hierarchical organizations -- there's a great potential for getting hold of more leaders. Let me take some anonymous examples from my Oslo everyday life. It is clear that when you put in people who are systematically tied between the police's law office and all the outbuildings, and know what night guards you have, you make sure, of course, that these instruments, which have limited legal powers, are put into operation because the police control their use. Then there is one point that is absolutely crucial: there must be a minimum ratio between the number of policemen out there and the number of sentinels. That minimum ratio I think is now based on my experience, but I'm not going to figure it out, it's too low. I think it's too low. I think there's more to go out. That is why I think we should also take the turbulence signals during the slogan 'proud, but not satisfied' in the utmost seriousness with regard to the Oslo Centre, but also for that matter when we experience in parts of Rogaland police district that the temporary budgets are becoming too tight. I feel that the police director in his crew plan has elected a police officer who is still to be locally based in Norway, and not a sort of Terminator 3 police, who is still rolling on wheels. Getting such a police force requires resources -- I see that the Council of State is coming back to -- but it also requires a management that rewards the part of the police that is out there among people. I've chosen to call the police's public service a general practitioner. It is very important to give them status and strength. The health system understood it when they had to make specialisation for the medical group that was called the general practitioner. The police should also take this seriously. I am aware that in this area there are major differences in the country. It's most acute in a city like Oslo, but probably also in other big cities. I think the representative Høybråten has a point there. So finally, Bolshevik history of what happened under the previous government is never charming to solve the problems of the present. But let me say it this way: it wasn't an intrusive pressure on me as a government council in the last government to increase the admission to the Police College, and I can prove that. When that happened, it was because I felt through walks among the grassroots that it was necessary. I am of those who are pleased that the State Council of Storberget has increased further, and I am also pleased that the police director has wanted even more. I'm not just for one hallelujah, but for hallelujah in series. That's what can make a contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e651	I wish I did not feel concern after hearing this debate, and after hearing the Council of State talk. But I feel a lot of concern because there's obviously so much difference in what those in the field are experiencing, and what is said by the Council of State here from the pulpit. In the number of police officers listed by the Council of State, it is likely that all the personnel assigned to guard the embassies were included. If it wasn't, I'd like a cancellation. But anyway, the challenge now is that it seems that we've been based on overtime staffing and not on a good enough ordinary basic staffing. We have to do something about that. We can't expect to have full coverage if it's overtime to cover up all weekends. So it's not just the state council that's been out visiting the police. I've also been repeating that. And I hear some alarming examples. For example, I hear they say from the Bergen Police Chamber: we can't afford to hire any of the new graduates from the Police College, because our operating budget is such that when people leave, we hold back on positions. Yes, in fact, there are some numbers now that indicate that a fairly large proportion of the graduates are not employed by the police - there are many others waiting for them - because they do not get an offer from the police. Then we can discuss increased admissions at the Police College, but if we don't have operating budgets so we can hire them afterwards, that's a problem. Another thing that has now come to the table is that the number of elderly people leaving the police force before they reach the age limit, from last year to this year, has tripled. Last year, the Council of State considered that there was no need for national seniority measures when we proposed it. I mean it needed. We need a powerful signal that we want to keep people, not just above the age limit, but also over the last few years up to the age limit. And then just to take the number discussion: the previous government increased the police budgets by 1.2 billion dollars in four years. When the government boasts of 500 million. kr now, they cannot complain that we did not increase the appropriations, when we increased them by more than twice in the period before. We increased the recording by 125 students. This government has so far increased it by 72 students. In six of the last seven budgets, the Right in this Chamber has voted for as much money or more money as the Workers' Party and the SV have voted in favour. That we then have an SV spokesman who finds out that he's going to take the one year where it was 8 million. kr in difference, becomes a little bit pathetic compared to the numbers that are. But the main challenges are, how do we get people to work? How do we recruit and have budgets that make those who come out of the high school get hired? And how do we ensure the security of people? Because there is no sense of security when, for example: are not the police to pick up for several hours in the Bergen Centre, because you are busy with tasks that maybe others could have done, that we felt to be briefed on just 14 days ago in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e666	Let me first say that this debate seems to me to be getting better than I feared. In fact, I would like to thank the one who is asking the question - the right parliamentary leader - because I have a great deal of understanding that when you see the media reports that have been presented, you become alarmed. It's a challenge for all of us - and especially for us with responsibility for the judiciary - to see that the right facts come up, so that people don't go around feeling insecure on the wrong basis. So I have to say that I think the Right Leader had every reason to ask the question she has done. At the same time, since I'm in a good mood, I'd like to pay tribute to the opposition for pointing out the possibilities. I am pleased to hear the representative from Dørum, who says that the crew report that the Government has now received points to the road ahead. That's where we agree. Then the budgets will show you how to pass that test. I don't need to discuss for a long time how many we picked up last year, three years ago or four years ago, but the most important thing and the central number will be: how many are we going to pick up next year, how many are we going to pick up now, how do we think about education in a longer perspective? And it's clear that with regard to the ambitions of the crew report, this will be the big test of being able to meet the needs we have in society. I also fully agree with those who are now raising the question in relation to seniors. There are several good senior measures going on in the districts, but we see the need to put further pressure here. The same applies to getting civilians in order to release, so that more people can get to what should be high status in terms of police work, namely being out among the population. I would also like to say, since I did not have time to do that in my post instead, that there is no doubt that I fully agree with - and the entire government shares the view - that the representative Højbrätten was in with regard to prevention and donation. That is why we have established police councils in more than 240 municipalities - the police chief has gone out very clearly, among others. in Oslo - and we see results. 21 out of 50 large municipalities are now tightening up, with the support of the Progress Party, Right and others. I think it's good that the Right Health Policy Selection is doing the grip we're reading about today in the Evening Post. That means that we have such a debate that it is possible to take some steps forward and see that we need to have more thoughts in our head at once, prevent while building a strong police force. I believe that we are well equipped for this, and this debate has laid a good foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-09-22.ana.ud861e677	Then the president will ask if there are anyone who wants to speak to other questions before the meeting is cancelled. - It's not.
