ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e22	The representative Karita Bekkemelm, who has been on leave, has once again taken up the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e47	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e56	The Prime Minister and the Government have for a long time created expectations that it is impossible to meet. Expectations have been made that, then, all unsolved tasks around the municipality of Norway will be fulfilled now that you have received this red-green government. What's the situation, is that it's very easy to make the kind of promises when others are going to do the job. Then you can also blame others when things go wrong. The fact is that all people in this country live in a municipality, and they feel that there is a misunderstanding between this huge boast that the government always brings: there will be speed in the care of the elderly, in the school, there will be well-filled pools. Now the government has been out and promised more money for cultural purposes, more for drug treatment and more for sports. There will be more doctors in hospitals, increased efforts will be made to rehabilitate and increased rates of social assistance will be provided. Even the maintenance of churches and other municipal buildings will increase. There are quite a number of tasks that this Government promises to do on behalf of its municipalities. The situation is that most people feel that things are going the opposite way. Now several of the leaders of the Central Party are out and expect more money in the context of the revised budget for spring, and there is an insurrection of the rapporteur on the rise in the Workers' Party. There is evidence that many municipal politicians are starting to feel disturbed and uncomfortable at the crisis of expectations that is being created in relation to the reality of the local economy. Then it might be interesting to hear the Prime Minister give a realistic assessment - a realistic description of reality - instead of repeating the celebrations he normally holds when he meets in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e67	I thank you for the question. I heard on the radio that the representative Jensen was concerned that I should be humble, and I let myself be inspired by the humble question of trying to be as humble as I can. I want to start by saying that you have to make a difference between two questions. One is whether there's actually been improvements, and the other is whether it's all good. I believe very clearly that there are very clear improvements, a lot of strengthening of the local economy, much better now than a few years ago, when Siv Jensen supported the government's budget structure over several years. But that doesn't mean everything's good. That doesn't mean we're in all areas. That doesn't mean it's not much of a draw. But let me just remind you of some areas where we're setting up and strengthening a municipal economy after several years with very tight and poor municipal economy. One is the actual accounting figures. Before that, a large number of municipalities were in deficit. ==References== 140 municipalities were on the so-called ROBEK list - that is, put under state supervision because there were problems with managing the economy. That figure has now been reduced to 42, so there has been a sharp decrease in the number of municipalities that are under state control due to weak economy. And the municipalities go together in profit. However, more important than the accounting figures is that municipalities are in the process and are in the process of providing 10,000 new annual work in the care of the elderly. They have 25 000 more children in kindergarten, and 2.5 billion more were spent at school in 2007 than in 2006. That doesn't mean that we're in the goal, but that means that we're in the process of a formidable lift. There has been a significant increase in money to municipalities because we got a new majority and a new government in 2005. So we've started a reverse operation, but we're not in the goal, so we want to continue our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e82	I'm going to make the question very simple, so that the Prime Minister may see it. Is it realistic for people to expect an improvement, both in the care of the elderly and in school? Can they expect full basins, higher social assistance rates, growth in drug treatment, more for sport, more for cultural purposes, stronger rehabilitation, more doctors in nursing homes, increased funding for the maintenance of churches and municipal buildings? These are all of the promises made by the Prime Minister and the Government on behalf of the municipalities in recent years. Does the Prime Minister consider that there is a link between the Government's promises and the ability of the municipalities to make these promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e93	I thank you for the simple question and will try to answer it. Yes, the government is going to make sure that we have a municipal economy where we can still expand the important welfare systems. This means that there is going to be more money for the care of the elderly – more hands in the care of the elderly. There's going to be more kindergartens. Through, inter alia: We're also going to make sure that there's more money for culture. We're going to make more money for sports, and we've already shown that we're doing it. But once again, it's not that even though we provide more money for a purpose, it's necessarily enough money. I meet many rapporteurs who are pleased that there has been more money for important purposes and more than when Siv Jensen supported the Bondevik II Government, but I also meet many rapporteurs who want even more. I never think we'll get there that the rapporteurs say it's enough, we don't need more money. We must always make every effort both to get more money for the local economy and to spend the money in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e102	There'll be four follow-up questions--first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e105	If the country's rapporteurs and local authorities were able to balance their budgets with the Prime Minister's rhetoric and arrogance, they would not have been in the situation they are in at present, namely that the municipalities land and beach around the kutter in their budgets. The fact is, as the director of Gudbjørgsrud in KS said to the evening post recently, that the budget line for 2008 is tighter than the budgets that Erna Solberg presented. The national budget clearly shows that the free revenues of municipalities have been reduced in both 2007 and 2008. In such a situation, the prime minister's councils travel around the country and the beach and promise more and more on behalf of the municipalities. As the representative Siv Jensen went through, more is promised for sport, more is promised for addicts, more is promised for social assistance rates, etc. When will the Prime Minister show leadership qualities and stop governments from promising more and more on behalf of municipalities without being financially able to implement them?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e112	I'm not going to stop the councils from promising more when we follow the promises. When it comes to the local economy, we've followed up on what we promised. We have ensured a strong growth in the total income of municipalities. Based on the latest, quality estimates we had in the national budget, there are over 20 billion kroner in increased revenues of three years for municipalities. Then those numbers will be constantly revised. We get new estimates for both tax revenue and cost growth, and we will of course take that with us when we present the municipal plan for next year. But there is no doubt that there is a record growth in the revenues of municipalities, and that is why many right-wing rapporteurs have also thanked for the efforts made by the red-green government. So we're going to provide more money for important purposes, and we're going to keep doing that. And we have said that we must fully finance new reforms. When, for example, now promises several hours at school, it brings money to the municipalities for several hours at school. Well, of course, it's missing. We're not there, of course, that everything's in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e120	Bjørg Tørersdal - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e123	The Christian People's Party is pleased with the escalation that has taken place in the local economy and with the increased tax revenue, which has also led to increased welfare production in municipalities. However, we must agree that this escalation has stopped, and we must take it seriously when rapporteurs from all parties throughout Norway send signals and tell them that they must now cut into teaching positions and in auxiliary care positions, in the care of the elderly, etc. We have to take them seriously and say that we share the reality that they have. And then they ask us, yeah, what's up? If you agree that we have to cut jobs for different reasons - it has become more expensive, there are increased costs, there are more students in school, etc. - Yeah, what's up? My question to the Prime Minister will be: Will he give priority to the local economy when one comes to the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e130	First, I agree entirely with Mr Tørresdal that we should take the rapporteurs seriously. It is clear that it is serious when representatives of local government and rapporteurs report to us that it is urgent and that they have difficulties in following up the objectives and wishes they have. But there is something quite different than sharing the reality description that I feel the previous questioners had with a black paint and a denial that it has been an effort. I am also glad that Tørresdal showed that there has been an increase. But it's clear that the municipalities are going to need even more money. Therefore, there will also be a municipal arrangement for the spring, which brings new billions to the municipalities. How many things do we have to clarify when we present the proposition to the spring? But I think that experience is, now that we have increased revenue by over $20 billion in three years, that we need both more money and a continuous discussion and review of how we spend the money. We see, for example: that many municipalities do well in school even if they use below the average in school. So here it's both about more money and about spending it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e137	Lars Sponheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e140	The heads of state of one of the government parties say it like this in the nations today: ‘There is now becoming a misunderstanding between what the government boasts about, and what we can deliver.’ So then we can talk about, as this questioning right now shows, an expectation crisis might be as much as an economic crisis in the municipalities. This crisis in expectations has, in a sense, made the job more difficult for politicians, because they are facing expectations that they cannot meet, which make it more difficult to prioritize and explain to their citizens. On the other hand, in the event of the crisis of expectations reported here by the government parties themselves, it seems to me that there has become less pressure on cost-saving cooperation solutions, possible structural changes in the local government sector and, at least, more efficient. We've noticed that clearly in the last few years, maybe in relation to the last four years. Will the Prime Minister help to focus much more on how to drive municipalities cheaper, and new cooperation solutions, and perhaps also on voluntary structural changes, which I believe are necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e152	Yes, I think both are important. I believe it is both important to increase the appropriations for the municipalities and that we have a permanent pressure on the best possible operation and organisation of the municipalities. In fact, the more money we want for the municipalities, the more important it is that we are constantly concerned that they are organized in the best possible way. It's just that we can defend increased appropriations. But it's not the government that "crushes at itself". It's the Central Statistical Agency that provides figures that show that there are over 7 000 new annual work in the care of the elderly in the years we've been in government, and that we're on the way to reaching the 10 000 target. It's Kostra's telling us that there are 25 000 more children in kindergarten, and it's also Kostra's, municipal, telling us that while many municipalities had deficits and over 100 were on the ROBEK list, i.e. under state supervision, under the previous government, it's now down to 42. So it's not boast, it's actual numbers from different independent agencies. But even that's not good enough, we want to move on. That's why we need the big money for the local government sector and not for tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e159	First, I would like to encourage the Prime Minister to bypass the figures correctly in relation to the Municipality of Norway, because the government has always referred to the number 21 billion kroner, but that is actually wrong. If the Prime Minister is going to continue using figures like that, he should also tell us that KS has done calculations of this that show that it is actually not talking about 21 billion kroner, but if you take into account wage and price increases, maybe there are fewer than 11 billion dollars. It is clear that with a defaulting tax intake of the second half of last year, and several municipalities that are likely to be on the ROBEK list during the year, there is a lot of bad things around the municipality of Norway. That is why several of the government's own local politicians are responding. Today in the nations, central party people are out saying they need more money in the revised budget. Will the Prime Minister respond to the demand of his own local politicians and provide more money in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e164	We are going to provide more money to the municipalities in the municipal planning that we are submitting to spring. Moreover, the point in terms of municipal figures is that they are constantly being revised when we receive new estimates of tax revenue and cost growth. The figures in the national budget are the most recent quality assurance figures. They take cost growth into account. It's real growth, so after salary growth and cost growth in municipalities have been subtracted, we get the number 21 billion kroner in total income. About half of it is free income, the rest is earmarked for example. kindergartens or other purposes in the municipal sector. But I'm fully aware that those numbers will be adjusted maybe up and down over the years. In any case, we have a significantly greater effort in the local government sector, and we have increased efforts by many billions in addition to what was set up by the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e169	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e172	We've had a lively debate on school policy in the last month. We've recently implemented, and we're still implementing, one of the biggest school reforms in terms of content -- in fact, the first one in many years that focuses on raising the knowledge of classrooms in everyday life at school. One of the important challenges when we adopt reforms as politicians is to make sure that they reach out where they are implemented, and in my opinion perhaps one of the most important things we do as politicians, is to ensure that every child in this country has the best possible knowledge base, the best possible ability to master their lives and follow up on in a more complicated society. That's why what we do when it comes to school, one of the most important things we do, and that's why the meeting between teacher and student, what happens in the classroom, is the most important area to focus on, because that's where the education happens, that's where we actually get results for the individual child. That's why we've been engaged in challenging the government on school management, on good and more qualified teachers, and not least on how we make sure that this month's debate is not just a one-month debate, but that it becomes a continuous learning pressure, a continuous focus on how to raise Norwegian school. In this context, it's important that we learn from mistakes, and that we have the good examples in front of us. It requires transparency of results. The debate we have now received has come because we have gained transparency about the PISA and PIRLS results, but in Norwegian local authorities and Norwegian municipalities, the Government will not allow transparency on these results in the same way. It's the same thing as if the PISA and PIRLS results came in the closed envelope to the Storting, and then we had a closed debate. This is the government's policy in the municipalities. Why not more openness?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e179	First, I want to declare that I agree with Solberg's representative on a lot of what she says about the importance of knowledge and school, and several governments have for years wanted to strengthen the knowledge content of the school. That was the background for Reform 97, when we started school for six-year-olds, that was the background for the then State Council Gudmund Hernes to report to us on these various international studies, such as. PISA -- I remember very well that he justified it because we need that kind of international comparison -- that was the background for us to expand teacher training from three to four years in our time, and that was of course the background for Trond Giske to get a pay gap for the teachers and to help get national reading exams in school in 2000, and also for getting the quality selection reduced, just to see how we can raise the quality of school. So here, there's actually a broad consensus that we need to strengthen quality and learning in school. So I think we should welcome a little searching and a little open debate on how best to do it, because there is not always a clear link between resource efforts and results. That's why we have to find out why some schools and some municipalities are doing well, while other schools and other municipalities are not doing it as well. There is transparency about the national samples. They are made available to school owners, they are made available to parents, but they are also made available to the media — they are subject to the public law, so the newspapers who want to gather and set up rankings do so. But what we've wanted to avoid is to actively facilitate ranking, because it can easily lead to the wrong use of the numbers. But local government that wants to see numbers can do that, and newspapers that call get access to the numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e189	So a local government that wants to find the results from the rest of the country to assess the good results in single schools elsewhere has nothing but an average from a municipality. Obviously, the Prime Minister cannot be aware of the secret he has. What's actually interesting is that once our school debate has started, it's because we have information that Norwegian school doesn't reach the goals we want it to achieve. Then we can say that the explanation of the history and cause of the Prime Minister is relatively selective and contains quite a number of errors, but there is another debate. The question is, what are we going to do in the future? I think we need to get open, honest debates that challenge every single school manager, who challenges within the school, on how to raise each class, and we need to know where to find the good examples so that you can learn more from it. That openness closes today's government, because there's not full transparency about the school results. I think the Prime Minister has to change that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e194	It's openness. Municipalities, teachers, school owners get access to data, and newspapers that want to, can call and get access - rankings of schools have been in several newspapers I've read. What the authorities have said is that we do not want to facilitate active ranking, because the results are to be used in individual schools and municipalities. That is also why we have managed to carry out national tests in a good way, without conflict, without much boycott, as was the situation under the previous government. Otherwise, I agree that the important thing is to look ahead. We are already doing a lot of important things, for example. there will be several hours: 5 new hours and 7 new school hours for the autumn, with a weighting of, among others. math and Norwegian, which are among the subjects we're most struggling with here in Norway. We are now working on strengthening teacher training, and one of the suggestions we are looking at is to make demands on how many points teachers should have at different levels of education. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e201	There will be four follow-up questions - first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e204	Transparency about school outcomes is important to ensure that you have quality control at schools. I think basically the Stasminister answered Solberg's question quite well, because what he's doing is really to distance himself from the government council that Solhjell has previously said, that he doesn't want one to have transparency about these results. On the contrary, he has said that the only people who will have access to the results of the schools are the schools themselves and the students and parents who are linked to the individual school. That is why I think it is an important clarification if the Prime Minister of the Grand Duchy today can appear as the guarantor that there should be transparency about all the results of national tests for those who want transparency, including local decision-makers, the media and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e209	I believe that we should continue the practice this government has very successfully established, which means that we have much more peace, much more implementation in terms of national tests than the previous government has succeeded. When one had national tests under the previous government, it became boycott, strife and great problems, and one could not use them for what they were meant to be used for, namely, improving the quality of school. We have conducted national tests in close dialogue with students and teachers. Thus, we have ensured a publication that will allow them to be used in each school and in each municipality. But we haven't arranged for ranking, because it was a challenge and a problem with the previous system. I believe that the model we have chosen is a good model, and we want to continue it in dialogue with the teachers' and students' organisations. So today it's also possible to call, use the Public Health Act, and access the data, but we haven't arranged for ranking, just to avoid the fight and the problems we had the last time we had national tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e218	Dagrun Eriksen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e221	I think it's right, as the Prime Minister says, that publication is happening anyway -- and it gets a little confusing. But I'm a little bit more concerned with the results that these national tests show. And then it's true that the Prime Minister says that we have some bad results in reading, writing and billing. A country we often compare with is Finland, and in these very areas - although I don't think they come out so well in all the other areas - they come out well. Then the Government's answer, as the Prime Minister also said today, is several hours of reading, writing and billing. In Finland, students have 680 hours. In Norway, they have 741 hours. Nevertheless, the government answers that we must have even more hours. Then I would like to ask: Will the Prime Minister not do as the Christian People's Party and the teachers want, bet on getting more teachers into the hours, so that we can get much better reading, writing and math classes in the hours we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e228	Firstly, I very much agree with the representative, Dagrun Eriksen, that it is important to see what we can use the tests for, both the national tests and the international tests. Then it's important that we don't paint the situation in Norwegian school. There's a lot of good things in Norwegian school. A lot of kids are learning a lot. We are e.g. especially good in subjects like English. There are many who also learn a lot of Norwegian and math, even though it's in those subjects some, about 20 pst., labors. In addition, Norwegian schools are better off than other countries' schools for equalising social inequalities, and that is an important quality. It has, among other things, in the follow-up to the Knowledge Promise, has been a broad consensus on, both in the present and in the previous government, that we should increase the number of hours in some skills subjects such as Norwegian and mathematics, and that promise follows up the Government. In addition, it's important to look at the quality and the content of the hours we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e235	Step Skei Grande - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e238	When the Left sat with the school office in Oslo, reading tests were systematically introduced. You tried how good the students were to read, you published the results, you went into those schools where you had a bad level, and you saw what you could do, you went into those schools where you had a good level, and you saw what you could learn from them that worked there. This systematic work has dramatically increased the reading skills of students living in Oslo. Sickness in those schools with a high proportion of minority-speaking people is very good for reading skills. This raised some resistance in the beginning, but now everyone is satisfied with it. The Prime Minister was today very busy showing humility, so now I'm going to give him a chance to do so. Can the Prime Minister admit that one has a lot to learn from the way Oslo School here is systematically working, and perhaps a bit of the way the Left headed school policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e245	I have a lot to learn from many schools in many municipalities, including in Oslo. That's why I've spent a lot of time meeting school people, and I'm going to spend an extra amount of time this year. I've had a lot of conversations with people who know the Oslo school well, and I'm a student of reading tests. When Trond Giske was Minister of Education, read tests were introduced nationally in 2000. It was an expression that the experiences we had in those municipalities where you had reading tests were good. I don't remember exactly if it was Oslo, but it was definitely, so we were also inspired by Oslo. So we listen and learn in a humble and gentle way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e253	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e256	The government has taken a very strange approach to school outcomes. Political notice from the Ministry of Knowledge is that there should be a secret to what is public information. It's a very strange way of operating. It definitely doesn't make the Norwegian school any better. In today's Business last December 22nd, we could read that the Prime Minister would use the winter to find out what to do with the Norwegian school. The paper goes on to write: ‘He does not have to look beyond the borders, the Oslo School has found the answer,’ says Gudmund Hernes.’ In VG 24 January this year, the Director of the Education Centre in Oslo, Astrid Søgnen, follows up - she is also a member of the Workers' Party and has been State Secretary for the Workers' Party. You can read: ‘The study explains that an important part of the recipe is systematic testing, transparency of results and school requirements. The former highly central school politician in the Workers' Party believes that the Prime Minister has to copy the methods.’ My question is, Will the Prime Minister follow the clear advice of his party traps?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e273	First, I just want to publish the following: I have many good and interesting conversations both with Gudmund Hernes and with Astrid The Quest for Education Policy, and have talked to them for many years, even when they were responsible for education policy in the Ministry of Knowledge. Among the things that we agreed on then, and still agree, is that we need systematic testing. That is why it was Gudmund Hernes, the Workers' Party, who notified us of the PISA study and other international studies, among others. - or not least - for systematic testing. It was Trond Giske who introduced national reading tests in 2000 for systematic testing. But the national tests kept the previous government to ruin, because a scheme was made that led to full confrontation with School-Norway. We have now carried out national tests where the Public Health Act applies, where it is possible to access them. The national tests are not exempt from publication for the sake of national security, but we have not published them in such a way that it becomes an unnecessary provocative ranking. They are accessed in municipalities, schools, and the calling newspapers are also given access to the figures. And that's a solution. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e280	Time's up. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e283	The strong economic focus in the hospital sector has become a burden for patients. A man over 80 years old was discharged from the hospital a few days after an extensive operation. He asked nicely for a taxi, but had to take a bus with several crossings. The reason he received was the following: If we are to cost taxis on you, it means that another person who also has a life-threatening disease cannot be operated on. That's the law. The hospital has to pay if a patient is sent home in a taxi, it was said. Another patient was told that the syringe she was to receive now cost NOK 12 000. We have a lot of similar examples. These examples show that economic thinking in many ways permeates the entire hospital system today. It also shows that employees are in a very stressful situation that almost boils over. What does the Prime Minister think about this? Does this not show that a complete review of the funding system is absolutely necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e296	I think it's very important that we get public examples that the Norwegian welfare community doesn't work. We get both in the media, through the Patient Ombudsman system, and in other ways knowledge of examples - without me being able to do well for everyone, there are at least too many examples - that people do not get the care, care and treatment they require with the Norwegian welfare society. It's unacceptable no matter how many examples we have of the opposite, because there's no doubt that there are hundreds of thousands of patients who get excellent treatment in Norwegian hospitals. Only in the three years of this government has the number of patients treated increased by 53,000 compared to what it was in the past. There has never been more work and has never been treated more patients in Norwegian hospitals than today. But it's a little bit of comfort to the patient who's not being treated, that we're setting a new record in the number of patients who get good treatment. And there's a lot of employees doing a huge job. Therefore, first of all, I am concerned that the patient Ombudsman scheme should be used and that deficiencies should be addressed when deficiencies are detected. I mean the media have a job to do with the individual examples of the failure of the system, and so there is no excuse that most people get a good offer. As far as the funding mechanism is concerned, there is always a dilemma that we have faced, and that is that if we have framework funding and adopt a framework, we have control of costs. But on the other hand, every patient becomes a cost to a hospital. When we introduce input-driven funding, we have less control of costs, but in return, every patient becomes a source of income for the hospitals. Finding that balance has never been quite easy. Now we've gone to 40 pst. It's a level I think also the Christian People's Party is a follower of. I think the important thing is that you have stability and predictability, and [[The President announces the next speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e305	The expectations were high when the Health Council announced that the year’s budget was so good that many more patients would receive treatment in different areas. The joy was short-lived. Only one week after the adoption of the Health Budget by Stortinget, the savings and closure proposals began to flow in. In fact, the least profitable and weakest groups of patients are being pushed out: chroniclers, the elderly, rehabilitation spaces, cancer patients and, in particular, rubrics. The need for better political governance and priority is evident, not only for patients but also for more and more under pressure. Today's funding system has got a hit page. Wages and salaries are in focus at the level of the department. What will the Prime Minister do to meet the expectations created by the Government or to give the population a more accurate picture of what they can expect? And as far as the funding system is concerned, does the Prime Minister really mean not to go through it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e312	I believe that we should constantly look at and assess how the funding system can be improved. One of the key elements is the question of the balance between a framework finance and an input-driven financing. While in the past, under the previous government, you had 60 pst. price financing and 40 pst. On the frame, we now have the reverse: we have 40 pst. on the frame and 60 pst. on unit-price financing. I think it's a better balance. I think it's a balance that makes you a little less concerned with purely economic results. The Health Directorate has gone through the funding system. What I'm concerned about is that we still have to count and measure any system, because if we stop counting and measuring treated patients, at DRG points or different health care units, we lose any control with the health care system. So in addition to being concerned with a good funding system, we need to be concerned about more money -- we've given more money -- and make sure that we treat more patients than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e317	There will be three follow-up questions - first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e320	There is no doubt that hospitals are in a serious economic situation. In a debate between Health Minister Sylvia Brustad and me a few days ago Sylvia Brustad said straight out that she thought it was brilliant that two out of three emergency patients got immediate help--two out of three! This means that approx. 30 pst. patients who need emergency hospitalisation do not receive it. Does the Prime Minister think it is just as good as the Minister for Health thinks it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e327	I didn't hear that debate, but I'm pretty sure what the Minister of Health said -- that's at least the point -- is that two out of three admitted to Norwegian hospitals are immediate help patients, who get help right away. I've never heard any numbers that show that one of the three that have an acute need for help is not getting help. It just shows that most people who come to Norwegian hospitals are not allowed to wait. They're coming right in. Two out of three posts are instant insertions, so there's one third waiting. However, waiting times are quite stable and decrease slightly for important treatment groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e333	Bent Höie - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e336	There is no doubt that the situation in Norwegian hospitals is serious. There are many proposals now that will have a major impact on the health supply to the population, and waiting lists are increasing. That is a clear fact. Now we've just had a public sample that's produced a report that shows that almost half of the country's population lives in health regions that get too little cake compared to what they need. Almost 800 million. kr is distorted. This is a means of giving concrete results in a lower level of health provision. For example, in my health region, Health West, having a heart operation, there is a significantly less chance that a person will be given a real rehabilitation offer afterwards than if one lives in another health region. Will the Prime Minister ensure that the revised national budget will reach 800 million. kr to that part of the country's population that actually lives in these regions -- that that money is coming now, and that there is no need to cut in health [[The President announces the next speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e345	We have received the report from the Magnussen Committee, which shows - at least the sample claims - that there is still a division of health regions. We have fixed up a previous misalignment that the previous government let lie, so we have provided more money for the hospitals. As far as the picture is concerned elsewhere in the health system, the situation is always that the opposition is concerned about getting what is bad, and the government is concerned about getting what is good. But the truth is that both are true. There is very much that is good in the Norwegian health care system. It's an impressive number of people who are being treated. We spend more money than all of them, most of the other countries. There are 123 000 more outpatient consultations only from 2006 to 2007, and 53 000 more have been treated in hospitals. That's impressive numbers. But then I repeat: there is no comfort, there is no excuse for those people who are not being treated. There is a lack, and that is unacceptable. I believe that both the position and the opposition should work hard to obtain the shades in the hospital debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e352	Gunvald Ludwigsen for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e355	The hospital is under financial pressure, not least for the local hospital. But we have the Soria Moria statement, and it says that the government will ‘maintain a decentralised hospital offer’. [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e360	Yes, I can. We're not going to shut down local hospitals. Olav Gunnar Ballo has also sometimes spoken in the past not quite in line with the Soria Moria statement, so I think we have to live with that. It is important that there is a living debate, but the government's policy is firm. What is, on the other hand, a much more important and demanding debate is what the content of local hospitals should be. One of the challenges is that we need a better work sharing between hospitals. It's e.g. more than 50 hospitals operating colon cancer. Several health experts tell us that the quality of many hospitals is too poor, that there is too little patient base, and that it is therefore important to get a better division of work, more specialisation between hospitals. There may be strenuous shifts. This means that local hospitals can get involved in other things to ensure the quality of hospitals, because there may be too many hospitals with too many different things, with too poor quality, today. That debate has not been put to death, even if the local hospitals [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e367	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e370	On Utja last summer, the Prime Minister said that in Norway we would have and get the world's best school, and the tools were several hours in school and fruit and green. Just after the turn of the year, the Prime Minister has also said that we must have teachers, good teachers. Then the prime minister begins to approach what is said when summing up in Finland. Then you say, teachers, teachers, teachers! The point of saying ‘teachers’ is not just to say it, but to want it. Not least in these times, how many teachers in Norway bend their heads because they feel whipped, they know from us who walk around in Norwegian schools, that there is a great job here. People are on. They want it to be good. They will have demands, but they deserve to have demands where society also makes - that society shows respect for the fact that there are enough of these teachers, and that they get the systematic, competent further education they want to have, to cope with the pride they want in their profession. And then reality comes. Every time the Left - first alone and then together with the entire opposition - will have recruitment plans for teachers in the Norwegian school, it will be voted down by the government parties, who have full control over this. And every time the Left tries to raise the debate on a systematic continuing training of competence, it's down in Stortinget. But where we're starting to get through, there's a budgetary agreement between the Left and the bourgeois City Council in Oslo, because you realize that this is the crucial thing and the important thing. And in an area where the government actually wants something and not only has the right words, the kindergarten area, it shows construction -- and the money sucks, priority. When are we going to experience that the Prime Minister is giving priority to the most important thing in the school, good enough teachers, through the measures that have been repeatedly shown here in the Stortinget, and where is there action missing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e379	I think it's very good that all the parties in the Storting are now engaged in strengthening the school, that there's a discussion about it, and that all the parties believe that an important part of it is strengthening the teacher's role. There is nothing new from the Labour Party. But we're a party that hasn't always thought about all of the thoughts we're going to think about, so we're going to think about new thoughts in dialogue with, among other things. the school’s people about how we, among other things, will have a better and strengthened teaching role. We did things before. Among other things, we extended teacher training from three to four years. We had a paycheck for teachers. But it's obvious that the things we've done are not enough, so we have to do something more and something new. Then we need a discussion about it. What we're doing is, first of all, a round of how we can strengthen teacher education. There are three proposals here which, at least, many think are good. One is more practice. I even met a teacher who was really surprised at how little he knew about the school - after four years at the teacher's school. The second is more specialization and depression. We are now considering a proposal to introduce a requirement of 60 credits in the subjects of Norwegian and mathematics for general teachers in order to enhance the quality of those subjects. There are also opportunities for more pedagogical learning - that is pedagogical - because it is simply important to be good at learning away. That's one of the things we're looking at when it comes to teacher training. Continuing training shall be strengthened. We've used up to 400 million. kr extra in the year as a follow-up to the Knowledge Lift. It was the Left and the Labour Party - and all the other parties - agree on. So it's a reinforcement. What is the question is whether we need more competent formal continuing education and less short courses. Well, then we look at it. I think it is a lot of good proposals - a lot happens - and we have to follow up and implement them. One thing we have to avoid is blackmailing the situation in school, because no one wants to start at a school that is produced as bad as it is. It's very good in Norwegian school. Many children learn a lot. It balances social differences. Much is good in Norwegian school, but it's missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e392	I don't black paint at all--I'm based on pride. There is one thing we must at least avoid, and it is a prime minister who has so many words that there will be an expectation crisis of the most important thing in school, so that it is not delivered where action is crucial. In the long answer that the Prime Minister gave me now, he was unable to get into what is a reality - and as everyone who knows the school knows - that there must be a systematic recruitment of many enough teachers. Many measures have been proposed - they are always rejected here in Stortinget. The Prime Minister also disregarded what our neighbouring country Sweden is now carrying out, namely systematic continuing training for teachers, because pride in the profession and building it. Here in Stortingen, there are now - once again from the Left - proposals for a teacher's vow, for a systematic training of competence, which shows that society has respect for the role of teachers and that it will be built. Will the Prime Minister now give a signal to the government parties that this time one should be open to this proposal and not just vote it down?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e403	The government is open to discuss and promote suggestions on how we can strengthen teacher training and the recruitment of teacher training, but I cannot support or oppose a proposal from the Left I have not seen. This government is committed to strengthening teacher training and the recruitment of the teaching profession. We are in the process of doing important things, including: in the case of continuing training of teachers and a change in the content of teacher training. I mentioned three concrete proposals on how this can be done. The key is that the municipalities have enough money. Fortunately, from the figures for spending money at school that we have now received on the table, local authorities' efforts in schools have increased by approximately DKK2.5 billion from 2006 to 2007. It's important for recruiting teachers, and that's the result of getting a government that chose to spend money on community, school, over tax. Norwegian teachers, too, are well served that we have the ideological choice of ways that govern politics - and not continue to be tax laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e413	There will be three follow-up questions - first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e416	I think most of us are excited about the Prime Minister's newfound interest in school policy. The problem is that the kind of newly gained interest often ends up with a lot of talk and very little action. In order to guarantee myself against this, I see that on 28 January the Prime Minister in the VG has proposed five concrete measures, two of which are about teachers. I'll quote them quickly: ‘1. Strengthen the teacher's role 2nd@item: inlistbox Strengthen teacher training 3rd@item: inlistbox Previous special education 4th@item: inlistbox Create a high school for all 5th@item: inlistbox Expand the hours’ Which of these proposals are new?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e435	What is important is that we implement these measures. What's new is that it's actually being followed up. There's been talk about hours in school for a long time -- now there's five extra hours. It's a concrete follow-up to an old promise. We're dedicated to strengthening the teacher's role. We see that some of the reforms we have had in the past - not least driven by the previous government - have contributed to weakening the firm frameworks of education. Many teachers and many schoolteachers tell us that it no longer has an identity and a membership of the class, weakens the teacher’s role and weakens the predictability of teaching. Now we're discussing with the school's people and with school researchers how we can reintroduce stable and somewhat firmer frameworks around education. It will be new, and it will be important for Norwegian students.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e442	Gunnar Gundersen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e445	There is no doubt that the teacher's role in school is very central. It is central to building status both for the school and for the teacher. Then the Prime Minister should also choose his words carefully, for he came dangerously close to his new year to suggest that the teacher was responsible for the situation in school. We're not going to end up with that. This is a politically crazy process where you've lowered the requirement for school learning. The promise of knowledge is a recipe for starting to reverse that process, and I think we've just seen the beginning. Now there is a focus on teacher training. If we are to believe the essays in the Evening Post, a four-year teacher education is really a three-year education, if you look at time usage. It has been known that there has been a lot of criticism of teacher training - through a NOCUT report that came two years ago. It's announced a big shot in a year and a half. But what has the Prime Minister and the Government done to follow up the NOCUT report to the higher education institutions - that they put pressure on teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e452	First of all, I very much agree that the essays that have been in the evening post are very thought-provoking. Assuming that there is a correct description of the facts, a four-year teacher training is in practice three years old, because much of the time goes with other things and little is effective learning. Some of the background to the major quality reform in higher education and universities we introduced a few years ago was that students should have closer follow-up, more effective education and better progress. I believe that these are things we also need to follow up on in connection with teacher training. We come up with a big message about teacher training, precisely because we want it to be more real content and faster and better learning in teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e459	Dagrun Eriksen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e462	I think there are many teachers who are pleased with the interest shown also by the country's prime minister, but I think there are some who would like him to visit and sit down in the classroom without the press present. And if the prime minister had then chosen a high school, I think he had been quite clearly informed that in the points from Utøya, in the points that have been presented this year after New Year, we have once again forgotten the secondary school stage. It's pretty serious, because in high school, we're starting to see the same results that we find in high school, that's the high drop-out. We have a theory of high school. All the great, practically strong students we have don't get masters in high school. My question to the Prime Minister is, with regard to all these points and everything he has proposed, will he take the initiative to focus more also on the challenges of high school, and not once again just at the very least?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e469	I agree that it is important to look at high school, but then I will share a dilemma with the representative Eriksen that I believe the whole Stortinget and the Government are facing. One is wanted to do something in school, change things when we see that there's something that doesn't work exactly as it should. But the second is that schoolchildren and researchers tell us very clearly -- and this is very correct -- that they don't want any more major reforms, they don't want a new set of curricula. They received curricula in the 1990s, and they now received new curricula in the Knowledge Lift. So there have been major reforms that have created a lack of predictability and stability in school. So we have to be able to make changes without breaking up too much of what is, because that itself is a problem. That's why we have no plans to create new curricula. We base the curricula that were adopted a few years ago on good and bad. What we're working on is to see if we can make professional guides in addition to the curriculum, so that we can give some clear signals about what to prioritize, and how to organise it based on the given curriculum. The contents of high school are part of the things we're going to look at, but we're going to base the curriculum that the previous government presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e476	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e479	Not long ago, proposals for a new national transport plan were submitted by the trade unions. In this context, I believe the Prime Minister agrees that it is important and of great importance that the Storting should be involved and given insight into the major needs of both rail and road, in order to assess the real needs and to provide the right framework for the next national transport plan. Based on what has happened in the last week, it may seem that the Government has given strong leadership to the levels, so that the proper and necessary needs have not been presented, that the levels have almost sub-dimensioned their wishes or hidden the real needs. In recent days, Railway Director Killi has also been out there criticising the Government of the underlying proposals. TV2 revealed that there are actually other wishes from the floors - at least from the railway station - that are significantly larger than what has been submitted to the Stortinget. In the last two days, Minister of Transport Navarsete has stated that there is no alternative or primary framework request from the agencies. On the other hand, TV 2 has revealed that there is this kind of framework proposal from the floors. Then is my question to the Prime Minister: are there alternatives, primary wishes, from the agencies that show that rail and road needs are significantly greater than those underlying the framework proposal from the agencies, and in which the Stortinget has come to understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e489	In general, I just want to say that any agency will always be able to lead in the field good arguments for more allocations to the area that the agency manages. It's relatively obvious. With regard to the specific question of what kind of plans exist or should have been available in the various transport modes, I am not aware of this in addition to the fact that a written question has been raised to the Minister for Transport about it. I think she'll have to explain that process internally in the notes. Then she'll have to answer that. In addition, the whole transport plan will be submitted to the Stortinget in December. The Stortinget then has every opportunity to ask questions about one and the other, about further needs, etc. Now, I think we're going to have to do the planning process as planned -- put it to the Storting, answer the questions that come, and then you get the answers to the questions you want to answer. What I want to add is that the government has followed up the agreement that the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Advance Party made on the transport plan in the previous period. Then we promised over 2 billion kroner more per year. years for four years. So now we're going to follow that promise. To be absolutely accurate, we are now at NOK 20.5 billion in total, over DKK 2 billion extra annually on the road, track, transportation purposes here in the country. Then we do what we promised, follow up the transport plan. Then there are multiple roads, more railways, 50 pst. increase in railway investment. It's a follow-up to what we promised together with the Progress Party. Then I also see that even though we spend much more money in this area, such as on health care, elderly care and municipality - when we presented the 2 billion in the previous period, the representatives of the then government parties said that it was airlocks and overburdens - although we have fulfilled and implemented, there is still a lot of unsolved in the Norwegian transport sector. [[The President announced the next speaker.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e502	I record that the Prime Minister is only interested in talking about history. I get that very well, because the situation with regard to our infrastructure today is much worse than it was two years ago. This is due to price growth, and this is because the Government has not followed up the agreement on the national road transport plan. Interestingly, the Prime Minister almost transfers responsibility to the Council of State - a government council that has stated in the Norwegian press that there is no alternative framework proposal from the agencies. Then it is interesting to be allowed to show the Prime Minister the original framework wishes for the railway that do not exist in the plans submitted to the Stortinget. Then my question is again to the Prime Minister: Will the Prime Minister contribute to the original wishes of the various departments also coming to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget will also have a better basis for assessing the needs of the plan that will apply from 2010 to 2019, that it will not just be historic?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e511	With regard to the internal handling of this in the courts, I believe that the Minister of Transport must respond to it - not because I do not take responsibility for it, but simply because I do not know that matter. I know that she has received written questions about it and will answer them in detail and in addition. The second is that it's not right that plans have been made for the Storting. The size will get transport plans during the year -- I think it's in December, at least in the autumn once -- and then the Stortinget can ask the questions they want, and get answers to all the questions that might be about additional needs, more plans, etc. The crucial thing is that we have followed up what we promised, that we are now at a level where there is over NOK 2 billion more for purposes of transport than the previous government proposed, and that we are now making new plans. Traffic is important for this government. That's why we've also increased our efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e520	It'll be as a result of time two follow-up questions -- first Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e523	I understand that the Prime Minister does not want to know what has taken place during the examination of the etates' proposals for the national transport plan. It was due to be presented in December, but was postponed for one month, and the reason from the Council of Ministers of Navarsete was that the floors had gone beyond their limits. They had proposed measures that they did not have the power to propose. This means that the Government and the Council of State have been given access to these plans that the agencies have, but the Storting does not have access to them. I think it is a democratic problem that the public and the Storting should not know what is actually the real needs of the transport sector. I understand that the Prime Minister has no desire to do anything about it now. But he says that the promises are fulfilled. One of the promises in the Soria Moria Declaration was project financing. Now we see that the cost of many projects has increased. Will the Prime Minister implement the project finance promise, or will he push it forward, as proposed in the Yellow Book last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e530	Firstly, when I meet representatives from the Right, I believe that at least from the Right you should show humility in road construction. You promised 17 billion dollars a year for the purpose of transportation. You couldn't even fulfill it. We promised over $20 billion, and we'll do it. So we spend a lot more on the road than the Right was ever near when they sat in the government offices, and we do that because we spend money on the road, on the railway and on the common goods instead of on the tax havens. So all right-wing voters can be happy that it's the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that governs, so there's money going on here in the country. With regard to project financing, the challenge is: What is project financing? If project funding is to fund a project, I'm for it. I'm against not financing projects. But if project finance is to borrow money outside the budget, I'm against it, because I'm against borrowing - for a state that doesn't have big liquidity problems. I think project financing means different things. For some, project funding is a way to go around the budget; I have no sense of it. If it's getting money for projects, I'm for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e549	Ingredient S. Sørfonn - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e552	Today's government is still trying to create an image of the former government depriving the railway of priority, while the new government is implementing a huge effort. That's wrong. What happens now is actually a continuation of the path permissions that the Bondevik government started with. The government itself has the incentive to turn up the expectations of the railways in particular and of the transport sector in general, to give a lift. I feel uncomfortable when the big gap between the rhetoric and the professional assessments is visible, as it is. Then the expectation crisis becomes extra clear. The point is to make use of resources as efficiently and rationally as possible, so get the most out of the money. I want to follow up on the question to the previous questioner. It is true that the railway manager has assessed it in such a way that project financing and Public Private Cooperation will strengthen the development of the railway here to land. Is the Prime Minister in agreement with the railway director?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e559	Firstly, we have significantly strengthened rail efforts. There's no doubt about it. We put the ambitions at a higher level, and we've followed that level of ambition. The previous government had a lower level of ambition, a lower level of plan, and did not even follow up those plan numbers. So it's become substantially more to the railway -- 50 pst. increase in railway investment. This is a significant increase. With regard to how the projects are to be financed, I believe that we are in a situation where we can finance projects through the state. We do not have to finance them through different types of financial instruments. We're going to cooperate with private people. I'm open to working with private people, just to ensure that we don't undermine public governance with the projects and undermine the budgetary management instruments we have to have in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e566	The size goes to the last main question. Due to time, there will be no follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e569	On several occasions during the Question Time, the Prime Minister has said that the Norwegian school is very good at balancing differences. On the contrary, the relatively crushing judgment of the Workers' Party's school of unity tells us that it not only perpetuates social differences but also deepens and reinforces them. That's one of the reasons why the previous government made the promise of knowledge, and that's probably one of the reasons why the government, when Øystein Djupedal was the Council of State, promoted a big message about social inequalities in school. The right is very concerned that knowledge in school requires that we have knowledge of the school. That is why we are busy collecting as much information as possible. We're busy with systematics in that work. These are also our local politicians. When one of Højre's municipal councillors in the workers' party council asked Trondheim to provide information on the results of the national tests at each school, the councillor of the workers' party councillor Trondheim said no. Our municipal council, which is responsible for parts of the school policy in the workers' party-driven Trondheim, had to walk the path of the Education Directorate in order to know the results of the national tests in the Trondheim School. That means that that line of government has gone on, that there should be as much publicity as possible about what is public information, also needs to be down to local politicians who want to know more about school, just to make it better. It is also in contradiction with the modernisation strategy put on the table by the Government, where they believe that there is not enough coherence between the inputs and what is being obtained. They think there's too little knowledge, too little transparency, too little publicity. Then I have to ask the Prime Minister, which of the two versions is what should apply? Is it the government's modernisation strategy, which will have more transparency, more publicity, or is the government strategy chosen for national school-level tests, namely secrecy as far as possible, on what is public information?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e585	First a little bit about social inequality. I think it's important to separate two things. One is that of course there is social inequality in Norwegian school. Of course, it is also that if you are a child of parents with high education, high income and good social status, you are more likely to take longer education than if you have parents with low education and low income. However — and that is what is important in this context — as compared to other countries, this relationship is weaker in Norway than in many other countries. Compared with many other countries, Norwegian schools contribute to more social aberration — or less reproduction of inequality, if you like. It's a trait we have to take care of, strengthen and develop. The other thing that contributes to social smoothing is simply that there are so many people who get education. There is hardly any other country that has a higher proportion of the population with higher education than Norway. About half of the school years are now taking on higher education. The majority are women. We also see that many with ethnic minority backgrounds now take higher education. That we have a population where many have a lot of education, and where it does not least contribute to the smoothing of the gender gap, is a social bias that is of great importance. Although, of course, there is still social inequality in Norway, it is smaller in school than in many other countries. We'll take care of that. That's good, and we need to strengthen it. So for national tests: the whole point of national tests, and we and Trond Giske started implementing the national tests in 2000, was just to be able to provide schools, parents and municipalities with a better tool to improve quality. Therefore, they are available for these data and results. What we want to avoid is the confrontation and the war we had about national trials under the previous government. There were extensive boycott assessments, and the national samples actually didn't work out completely because there was so much controversy about them. That's why we haven't arranged for ranking, and that means we're not adding up to that kind of publication. But if you want that, you get that data.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e594	The Prime Minister is obviously wrong when he claims that there is a better balance between social inequalities in the Norwegian primary school than it is in other countries. If you compare e.g. The results of PISA in Norway and other countries will show one striking difference. In other countries, there are considerable differences between schools. In Norway, the differences are large within the classroom, between students. It's made us, for example. has had a situation in the Norwegian social-democratic school for very many years when one in five students has left school without being able to read and write properly. If there's something that helps to further reinforce the social differences in the lives of those people, it's just that they don't get the basic skills they're supposed to get while they're going to school. I notice that the Prime Minister does not want to respond to what happened with the District Council in Trondheim, simply because there is a consequence of the government's policy of transparency and secrecy about what is public information. The fact that Trond Giske was ordered by Stortinget both to carry out national tests and to report Norway to PISA is not the same as being open and public.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e601	The whole point of national tests is that the school owner and municipality should have access to data. I don't know the mood in Trondheim Municipality. But if a municipal council doesn't get access, I think it at least provides the basis for asking questions. I'm sure that they in Trondheim are able to find out for themselves, and I understand that the council has got access to this data by going to the state. It's nice that the government can help the municipal council with that kind of number. The crucial thing here is that we are now conducting national tests in dialogue with teachers and students in a way that makes it a better basis for strengthening school and school quality than it was under the previous government when there was war, confrontation and conflict around national trials and major boycott attacks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e608	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e613	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 7, from the representative of Leif Helge Kongshaug to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is addressed by the representative of Gunvald Ludvigsen. Question 8, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen of the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been withdrawn. Question 11, from the representative Martin Engeset to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 14, from the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare, who is entitled to do so. Question 19, from the representative Harald Valved to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Research and Higher Education who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Research and Higher Education, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e630	Question 1 is from Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister of Finance. Hans Olav Syversen is not present, and we go to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e638	My question to the Minister of Finance is this: ‘Skärvøy Municipality, by decision of the local government on 10 May 2007, has, inter alia: determined that the properties owned by two named limited liability companies which are used for residential purposes shall be exempt from property taxes. One company is owned by private companies with the municipality as a minority shareholder. The second is the whole time of the municipality. Does the Council of State consider such exemptions and discrimination on the part of owners to be in accordance with the exemption provisions of Section 7 of the Property Tax Act?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e647	The Property Tax Act provides for compulsory and voluntary exemptions from property taxes. The compulsory exemptions are listed in Section 5 of the Act. It follows from Section 5(d) of the Property Tax Act that property such as «the municipality itself owns» is free of property tax. The reason is that it is inappropriate to require the municipality to print and collect taxes from itself. It is assumed that the exemption covers only property owned directly by the municipality and not property owned by independent legal entities, even if a local authority has an interest in them. The exemptions in Section 7 of the Property Tax Act are voluntary for the municipality, so that the local council decides whether it will exempt properties covered by the alternatives in the provision. However, a requirement is that properties of the same category should be treated equally, unless there are factual grounds for different treatment. Under Section 7(a) of the Property Tax Act, the local government may exempt «Ownings of foundations or institutions intended to benefit a municipality, a county or the state». Initially, the property must be owned by foundations or institutions, and the question is whether this includes limited liability companies. The Ministry of Finance, by letter of 12 June 2003, received by the Committee 2003, page 1190, to a municipality, has stated that ‘foundations or institutions’ have been presumed to cover all types of legal persons in which no one has direct interests, including associations. Furthermore, in a letter dated 5 September 1996, the Ministry concluded that an enterprise for the purpose of employing disabled persons was covered by the provision. This company was organised through a limited liability company. On this basis, I assume that a limited liability company may be exempted from property tax as long as the other conditions of the Property Tax Act § 7(a) are fulfilled. Paragraph 7(a) of the Property Tax Act requires the foundation or institution to carry on an activity which ‘is intended to benefit a municipality, a county or the state’. In its letter of 12 June 2003, the Ministry stated that the question of what constitutes such an activity must be based on a concrete overall assessment. The Ministry also stated that in this assessment it is necessary to consider whether the Foundation or the institution performs tasks which may otherwise be performed by the public, whether it is intended to carry out profit, whether it distributes dividends to its members, and the financing of the Foundation or the institution. The property tax is a municipal tax, and it is up to the local council to decide whether exemptions under the Property Tax Act § 7(a) should be granted. I can therefore not take a specific position on the matter to which it refers, but point out that the exemptions must be within the scope of the Property Tax Act. Whether a limited liability company engaged in residential purposes can be exempted from property tax under the Property Tax Act § 7(a) cannot be determined in general, but is due to a concrete overall assessment of whether the business meets the requirement to be in favour of a municipality, a county or the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e660	I thank you for your answer. I'm a little surprised that the Minister of Finance doesn't see that if, as she says, you want to leave this to the municipalities, and then you get a municipal government decision that goes in the direction of what's done on Skjervøy - where you have a limited company, which is in itself private, with a small municipal share - and you say that this is okay if it's a majority for it, you don't get equal treatment. Other limited liability companies that also operate for the benefit of the municipality, such as: renting out to people who need housing, etc., and who may be privately funded, but for exactly the same purpose, will be treated differently. I don't think it's in the spirit of the Property Tax Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e667	I think I just have to refer to the answer that I have already given, because the law gives the municipalities the opportunity to act according to § 7(a), and it says that there is a concrete overall assessment that should be on the basis. So I'm sorry -- I don't think the representative Fleet and I'm getting a little further in relation to this concrete example in this questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e672	Svein Fleet - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e675	I do not have it, for the Minister of Finance does not want to go further. But I think it's a little unfortunate that she places this openly -- not for local decision-making, because I'm very strongly in favour of it, but not when it comes to the cost of central laws like that. property tax law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e680	I have very clearly underlined the action room of the municipalities in the answer I have given. It is within § 7(a), and it is therefore an overall assessment based on whether the enterprise meets the requirement to be in favour of a municipality, a county or the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e685	Before we go to the next question, the president will say that he has registered that the representative Syversen has come after he was called up. The President will draw attention to the fact that the Presidency has discussed this and has come to the conclusion that the main responsibility lies with the representatives and the Councils in order to be present at the time when their questions or matters are being dealt with in the Storting. The President is in doubt whether question 1 should lapse, or whether the doubt should benefit the defendant, Hans Olav Syversen. The President has come to the conclusion that question 1 will be moved and raised between questions 4 and 5, unless the Council has any objections to it. AscendingSort order for mail groups
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e691	I am still present and have this question to the Minister of Finance: ‘Only 40 pst. by non-governmental organisations of the country are registered in the Entity Register. The Register of Liberalities, which shall provide easier access to registration, shall be in operation from 1 January 2009. That means that maybe as much as 70,000 associations and teams will be unregistered for years to come. This means that individuals in associations will be provided in an equation with the wealth and income of bank accounts registered in their name until they have received the order number. from the Entity Register via the registration. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e700	Voluntary organisations which do not have acquisitions for their purposes are initially exempt from property and income taxes. In many such teams and organisations, individuals in the association are listed as disponsors in relation to the organisation’s bank accounts. The representative Svein Fleet assumes that these persons will be assigned the wealth and income of such bank accounts registered in their name until the organisation has received an organisation number from the Entity Register. A voluntary organisation may be registered with the organisation number in the Entity Register. In that case, the bank or others with funds for management will report the voluntary organisation to the Tax Directorate as accounting officer, using that organisational number. Since the account holder is an organisation, the information has nothing to do with the personal statement of the disposer. In cases where the voluntary organisation is not registered in the Entity Register, i.e. where the account holder is not identifiable, the Tax Directorate recommends that the account be reported with the birth number of a disponent, as well as a special code indicating that it is a voluntary organisation. The systems of the Executive Board shall then ensure that the account is treated in such a way that the amounts of deposits and loans are not included in the personal declaration of the disposer. Either the association is registered in the register of units and thus has an organisational number, or is not registered, a private individual who is listed as being a member of the association’s bank accounts, i.e. will not be assigned the wealth and income of such funds if the bank reports to the Tax Directorate as it should. However, should wealth and income be reported incorrectly at the disposal of the disposer, he will not be taxed for this if he proves that the funds belong to a tax-free institution. So it's wrong what's the starting point of the question from the fleet representative. Finally, I would like to point out that in the case of the voluntary register, as the representative Fleet mentions in the question, this is under development and not yet established. However, as I understand it is suggested that registration here should not be an obligation, but rather a voluntary matter. This means that even after the establishment of this register, it could be organisations that are not registered. Anyway, I can't see that registration here will have any meaning from or to the equation of individuals, which in any case should not be added to the income and wealth of the team's bank accounts. I can therefore not see that there is a need to do anything about this issue, except to answer as clearly as I do in the questionnaire to questions from the representative fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e715	I think the finance minister should be a little careful to say that my starting point is wrong. It's true, as the finance minister says, that the banks should do it that way. But now the finance minister himself says: if the banks do it this way. Then I believe that you have a responsibility to get this out to the banks, because the next position is -- as the finance minister says -- that if you're all like this, you have to make sure you don't have this as wealth and income, and that's of course easy. What's not easy is to tell all the people who get the simplified declaration, and who are not going to send it in, that they have to check if this is there or one. How many are the numbers that check this out completely? We know that there are a lot of people who are happy and let this go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e725	I want to encourage those who are exponents of non-governmental organisations to follow up on that part of the equation. If the Bank has not provided any supplementary information on the income and wealth of the Bank attributed to a voluntary activity for which it is the author of the equation, it shall itself be responsible for following it. So the rules here are very clear. It should not be very complicated to sort it out either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e730	No one believes more than me and the Right that people themselves are responsible for their own economy. But here we have quite clearly a relationship where the banks should be instructed, and where there should be a little more publicity around the obligation to implement this. I know from examples -- that's why I have raised the matter -- that this does not work. I hope that the Minister of Finance, through the institutions through which she can do this, will help to make things clearer, and that we will be informed and instructed on how to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e735	Of course, I would like to contribute very much to the attention of banks around this special code, that what is involved in wealth or income, if any, is linked to a voluntary organisation and not to the investor's own private financial situation, is made clear to the banks. Now I think the banks are generally aware of this, but it doesn't hurt with a little extra attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e743	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘Many small Norwegian limited liability companies find it burdensome that they are subject to an audit obligation. At the same time, audit obligations are not imposed on Norwegian registered non-resident companies. [[NUF]] According to the Government’s website, a legislative committee has been set up to assess the audit obligation of small enterprises. How does the Council of State view this issue, and when can we expect answers from the legislative committee?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e752	The government has established a selection to consider exemptions from the audit obligation for small enterprises, including small limited liability companies. The audit obligation limit should be equal to that applicable to limited liability companies and similar foreign enterprises operating in Norway through Norwegian registered non-resident enterprises, NUF, on which the queryor is involved. Therefore, following the mandate, the sample shall be based on the assumption that there shall be no difference in the audit obligation depending on whether the undertaking operates in Norway through the NUF or whether the company is Norwegian. That is also what has been said in the mandate of the legislative committee. Audits shall contribute to ensuring that creditors, investors, tax authorities and other users of accounting information have the assurance that the information contained in their annual accounts is correct. There are also some other requirements in the legislation and the statutory auditor's confirmation of different facts, known as special attestations. The auditor has extensive access to information on audited enterprises, accounting users save resources for their own control, and individual account users have equal access to audited information. The exercise of the functions of the auditor shall thus contribute to the efficient allocation of resources and to the fight against various forms of financial crime, including crime in the field of taxation and taxation. Audit requirements have a specific justification for limited liability companies and other forms of enterprise without owners that fully assume the obligations of the undertaking. At the same time, auditing entails costs for enterprises. The statutory audit obligation must require those costs to be proportionate to the benefits of auditing. The government will use the forthcoming investigation in assessing how the audit obligation for small enterprises should be designed for the future. The committee was given a period of 2 June 2008 to deliver its opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e765	I would like to thank the Council of State for that answer and ask the following follow-up questions: If the legislative committee that assesses the audit obligation of small limited liability companies does not agree on a common recommendation, how will the Government proceed to the possible removal of the audit obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e772	I don't think we're going to get ahead of what this sample will make of conclusions. However, I would like to stress: after the mandate, the election should be based on the fact that there should be no difference between the audit obligation depending on whether the company operates in Norway through the NUF or whether the company is Norwegian. I expect the sample to go into this issue, and that at this point, on 2 June 2008, we are a step closer to what is the queryer's intention with the question being asked today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e777	I thank the Council of State for the answer and ask one last question. A number of European countries have removed the audit obligation for small enterprises. As far as I've been able to clean it up, Denmark has removed it, and Sweden is in a phase where they assess or work to remove the audit obligation. To what extent will it play a role for the Government what other countries do in this matter? And does the Council see the value of improving the framework conditions for small businesses in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e784	Of course, we differ to what is the law in other countries. The starting point here is to ensure equal treatment between Norwegian-owned companies and NUF companies, precisely in order to make it easier for small businesses to have a regulatory framework and not to discriminate through legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e789	The story then goes back to question 1, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e795	First, I would like to thank the President for his goodwill, so that I was allowed to ask the question. I would also like to say that I fully agree with the personal responsibility he underlined in his introduction - so thank you for that. So to the question: ‘A common structure among persons with very high incomes is so-called ‘internal companies’. E.g. The 18 participants in the ‘internal company’ in Terra Securities received EUR 288.2 million, according to Today’s Economy. in 2005 and 2006, corresponding to a return of 1,149 per cent. It seems obvious that this has been designed to reduce tax requirements. Does the Council of State believe that this, and many other similar cases, provides a basis for assessing whether the law continues to provide revenue peaks with unreasonable opportunities to achieve low taxes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e806	Internal companies fall within the general definition of a participating company. It differs from other participating companies, such as partnerships or partnerships, in that it does not appear to be an outside company. In the company law, an internal company is defined as a «company which does not act as such vis-à-vis third parties». The members of the internal company may be persons, limited liability companies or other companies. Users of internal companies argue that such a company offers flexibility by the fact that there are few formal commitments regarding deposits and withdrawals of capital in the company. They also state that the form of the company provides for the appropriate regulation and allocation of underlying responsibilities, without the appearance of the business as untransparent and complex externalities. Prior to the tax reform in 2006, it could be very profitable to use internal companies for tax planning purposes. This could be done by establishing company structures in which such companies were incorporated as part of avoiding the calculation of personal income according to the sharing model. The aim of such events was to obtain something that was actually a return on labour, classified as capital income and thus reduced the total tax to 28 pst. The 2006 tax reform means that the marginal taxation of earnings and ownership income is largely the same, and the reform has reduced or eliminated a number of opportunities for circumvention previously in the tax system. Following the implementation of the tax reform 2006 and the introduction of the screening method, the profitability of events as mentioned above has been greatly reduced. Mainly, the effect of a reclassification from return on labour to return on capital will be saved employers’ fees. The Ministry closely follows developments in tax planning in the reformed tax system. So far, there are no indications that internal companies pose a particular problem in this context. But it's too early to draw clear conclusions about this now. Once the tax reform in 2006 has been made more effective, different outcomes of the new rules will be evaluated in depth. The results of this evaluation will be submitted to Stortinget. In my opinion, there are important considerations that can be addressed in order to introduce a registration obligation for internal companies. Such a registration obligation could contribute to transparency and facilitate greater transparency. In this context, there is consideration that draws in different directions and that needs to be weighed against each other, but this is in any case a problem that we are going to consider further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e826	I quite agree with what the Council of State says. Some of the benefits were lost following the 2006 reform. At the same time, we see that in some environments there is still a significant element of internal companies. With regard to the description of what an internal company is, as the Council of State came up with, I believe in many cases that that is not the main reason why you still have internal companies. It is because of the fact that certain groups provide, as the Council of State was concerned, that real wage income is classified as something else and will thus continue to have a lower tax burden. But I am pleased that the Minister of Finance will look at this and ask quite specifically: does this mean that we are getting this to the Grand Duchy in the relatively near future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e835	I want to be very careful about going into a further discussion about this relationship or other issues that are being discussed in terms of tax. Of course, it's because some of the tax rules that apply today are used by people who have good advice. They have a significant opportunity to conduct tax planning if we engage in a comprehensive public debate on these issues. But we do, on a general basis, a review - of course - of the tax rules as they are now, and we also need to evaluate the tax reform when we have sufficient information about how it has actually turned out. One of the problems to find out is the enormous adaptations made in 2004 and 2005, which disrupt the information we have on how the tax reform has actually worked. I expect that both in the budget for 2009 and in the evaluation that I can come back to the Stortinget and inform you about the implementation of, we will address the issues raised here by the Seven.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e842	I understand that the council answers as she does. My starting point is that if we're going to have a tax system that works, the broad group of the population must also feel that everyone is contributing, and there I think we have a common starting point. We don't come from the fact that you sometimes get a feeling that those who have the most powerful resources to be able to spin a little bit within the system, also use it for good. I think we have a common starting point to prevent that happening, because this also has to do with -- let's say -- the basis of the welfare society we all have, where we all contribute. So back to something the Council of State had in mind in its answer, namely the registration obligation, because there is hardly any registration obligation for internal companies. I just want to confirm that this is something the Council of State will look at. Do we get a registration obligation for that type of company?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e851	I can confirm that. As I said in my answer, there are many things that suggest that one should go further on that track. I fully agree with the representative Syversen that the respect for our tax system and the joint funding of the welfare state by the tax code is about ordinary employees and pensioners seeing that those with particularly high incomes and wealth also contribute to the community. This includes, among other things: therefore we believe it is important to keep the wealth tax and make it even fairer, because among the richest people in Norway, the effect of removing or reducing it or making other crunches in the case of working capital is that some of the best-intermediated people are dropping less taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e858	The size then goes to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e865	‘Hafslund shall build pellet mills on Averøy and, in this context, have the possibility to build a plant capable of providing back-up power to a region where power supplies may be critical for periods of time. Power generation based on pellets will be an alternative to highly polluting power generation from mobile gas plants purchased. How can the Council of State contribute to the use of back-up power from pellets instead of from mobile gas plants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e872	In October 2007, Enova committed EUR 97 million of aid to Hafslund. kr for the construction of a combined power and heating system on Averøy outside Kristiansund. The plant shall supply steam to the planned pellet plant at Averøy and electricity to the system and will have a capacity for delivery of 207 GWh process steam and 17 GWh electricity. The development of the cogeneration/heating plant and the pellet plant is interdependent. The pellet mill, which will have an annual production capacity of 450 000 tonnes, will provide safer access to processed biofuels. Increased availability of bio-fuels could trigger increased conversion of existing electricity and oil use and contribute to the re-establishment of large scale bio-energy installations. We regard this as a very good project. For this reason, the State is making almost 100 million. kr. I am aware that Hafslund has proposed to extend the power/heat plant, and in this way use the plant for the production of what is referred to as spare power. As I understand it, the proposal is based on the construction of a larger integrated steam boiler and turbine, and the establishment of a storage of pellets on site that is large enough to fire this boiler under the same conditions as a spare power plant. Hafslund's estimate of state support for this part - i.e. what is needed to realise this additional proposal - is in the order of half a billion dollars. Let me also mention that the consequence of the proposal is that Hafslund will sit with the ownership of the most critical power supply we have, and in general I believe that there should be public ownership of this. Statnett already decided last winter that there was a need for reserve power. The State network therefore invested at that time in two back-up power stations, based on gas. Work has now come a long way, and the impact of these is three times that of the Averøy project. Action across a broad field is needed to remedy the situation in Central Norway. One of the main challenges is to put in place permanent production, and we're systematically working on it. It is the task of Statnett to assess the need for reserve power. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy gave Statnett on Friday 18 January, respectively, the permit for emissions and the energy concession for the spare power plant on the Tjeldbergodden. The departments are now in the closing phase for the corresponding treatment of the Nyhamna reserve power plant. Last winter, when Statnett took the decision on reserve power, the process around the bioenergy project at Averøy had not come far enough. In addition, it is important to be aware that network reinforcements are likely to be needed for the Averøy project. It has therefore not been realistic to be able to link these projects, as I perceive the wish in the question from the representative Kvassheim. Let me also say that there was a meeting with the actors behind the Averøy projects, and the department is now waiting for written feedback from Hafslund to get all the aspects of the project explained. We are committed to giving a quick response to the written enquiry so that we do not hinder the progress with the establishment of the important pellet mill, which has thus already received 97 million kroner. kr in State aid. Let me also mention, for the sake of order, that the Government, in its authorisation to Statnet, has given conditions for exploring the possibilities for the use of biofuels in the mobile back-up power plants. The emissions permit of the Ministry of the Environment provides concrete guidance on how this work is to be undertaken. State networks should therefore work actively in the future to ensure a more environmentally friendly solution for back-up power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e893	The important thing for Hafslund and this project in Averøy is to get a quick response so that it can be taken into account when making the investment decision. It must be an important task to identify whether this is a real alternative to mobile gas power stations, as it could replace highly polluting solutions. I hope to be confirmed by the Council of State that the round one has now invited Hafslund by having them submit more information, is a real round that opens up so that this option can be continued. I also want to be confirmed by the Council of State that this emphasis on public ownership of the reserve capacity is not a priority that goes ahead of being able to choose a much more environmentally friendly solution than to bet on mobile gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e902	I can confirm that we will respond quickly to the enquiry that comes in writing from Hafslund, where they will then go carefully through what needs the scheme will require in terms of state funding, and also how they will see that this plant will be handled further when there is no longer a need for back-up solutions in Middle Norway. Our goal is to get there as quickly as possible so that there is no need for the kind of backup solutions that Statnet has now established through the mobile back-up plants. I will assure you that Hafslund will get a real assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e909	It is positive that the Council of State confirms that one will go into this badly to see if it can be an alternative. Can the Council say anything about the framework conditions associated with the acquisition of the mobile gas power stations? Is it so that this is a readily negotiable product that causes one of these gas power plants, for example. can be sold again because one has found an alternative that is more environmentally friendly, such as production from the pellet mill at Averøy? And will one actively work not only to minimise the use time of mobile gas power plants, but also to establish alternatives that are less polluting than the use of such gas power stations will be?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e916	The President will remind the representative of Kvassheim that all speeches must be made via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e919	The government's goal is to have an energy supply that is so good that we don't have to resort to solutions like mobile gas power plants. We're working on this day-to-day and systematic. Now we have the biggest challenges in Middle Norway. We are aware that there is also a need for increased production in the area around Bergen in order to ensure that we do not get into a difficult situation there as well. My main concern is to help us get up production that makes us confident that we can handle the power supply even in a dry year. Then we are in a situation in central Norway that we are not quite sure that we can handle a dry year in a good way, and therefore the reserve power plants are there. We have to do everything we can to deal with this in the most environmentally good way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e931	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: «Hammerfest Energy AS has developed a gas power plant with CO2 management - a very important innovation project for Finnmark. [[HE]] The NVE rejected the application for a concession in July 2007. The decision was appealed and is now being dealt with in the department. [[A]] The representative, Tore Nordtun, was in Hammerfest just before the election in the fall and stated that HE would be granted a concession to the CO2-free gas power plant. When I did not receive an answer to the question in the Questionnaire on 19 December 2007, I asked it again. When will there be an answer to this anchor?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e946	As the representative points out, NVE rejected the request from Hammerfest Energi AS for the concession for a gas power plant with CO2 management in Hammerfest. In particular, the NVE weighted the high production costs and limited efficiency of the installation compared to other CO2 capture solutions. The decision of the NVE was appealed against by Hammerfest Energie AS, Zero and Sargas AS. The Ministry was sent the complaint case from the NVE on 23 October with comments from the directorate on the complaints. Following the submission of the complaint, the Ministry received comments on the NVE’s letter of transmission from Hammerfest Energi AS and from Sargas AS. The appeal shall be dealt with in an ordinary manner in accordance with the requirements set out in the Administrative Act. I have to ask for an understanding that I cannot now, while the complaint procedure is in progress, advance neither the time nor the outcome of a final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e961	I thank you for the answer, and I have a follow-up question. What is now important is that the company can get a quick response so that we can keep this important research and development environment in Finnmark. The snow-white development has brought Hammerfest new infrastructure. It consists, inter alia, of: of a free-capacity CO2 management system. This is the only CO2 management system available from Norway and represents a very costly part of the gas power value chain with capture and storage of CO2. At the same time, the development of the Mongstad project shows that it is important to focus on costs. Will the State Council of Hammerfest Energi AS’ appeal emphasise the cost effect of the existence of a free capacity system for the storage of CO2 in Hammerfest?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e982	I always understand impatience, and I understand that you want quick answers. At the same time, as a department, we are dependent on doing a thorough job. Here we are in the situation that the NVE has rejected the application, and we are in a process where we have to go through everything again to see if we are going to follow the complaint. When we're in a process, it's not right for me to go into what assessments we want to base. Then I will break with what is good practice in dealing with such matters. But what I can say is that we have an understanding of the need to get quick clarifications. That is why we have also agreed at political level a meeting with Hammerfest Energia.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e989	I also thank you for this answer. In the context of the plans to develop gas-fired power plants in Mongstad, ESA has asked questions about its financial contribution to the project. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has explained that support for exhaust gas treatment technology from gas power plants is not a subsidy but an investment in the future revenues of the State. Will the Council of State contribute to the treatment of Hammerfest Energie AS’s project in the same way as Mongstad in terms of investments in its future revenues?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e998	With regard to the test facility in Mongstad, which is what we have discussions with ESA about now, it is still not clear on what basis ESA will hopefully be able to approve the plant. It is not clear whether the market investor principle will be applied or whether the exemption provisions of Section 61 of the EEA Agreement will be taken into account. To the extent that I am now going to predict the management of ESA, it will be that one is going towards applying the derogation provisions of the EEA Agreement. That's the signals ESA has given us. That's the track you're now pursuing first and foremost, depending on whether it's not finally clear which track will be the final one. We tend to say that for us it doesn't matter what track leads, just that leads to a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1008	This question, from the representative of Leif Helge Kongshaug to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is raised by the representative of Gunvald Ludvigsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1011	The following questions are addressed to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The electoral law provides that pre-voting may take place within the limits of 10 August of the electoral year. For fishermen who have long voyages at sea for more than four weeks, this would lead to their being deprived of the opportunity to vote. It must be an objective to facilitate the exercise by all those who so wish of their voting rights. Will the Council of State set up mechanisms to allow fishermen and others who, because of their profession, are away in the time of prior voting to vote?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1020	The answer is yes. This question I will address in more detail. I see it as an important principle that most possible voters are able to voice. The Ministry is now carrying out a wide evaluation of the municipal government and county elections last year. In this work, we will among other things. refer to the time of the flashing and whether this should be changed, if any. We also want to see if there might be other measures that you should take instead of changing the timing of your preview. As planned, I will present to the Storting a message about local democracy in ours. Here various questions related to the selection resolution will be discussed. I also intend to send out a proposal for any changes to the electoral law in a hearing note in June. Here you will, among other things. the evaluation of the choice will be discussed. In this note, it is also natural to discuss the prioritisation period and what measures it may be appropriate to take to increase access to the selection room. Vallova has established today that the internal preconstruction takes place on 10 August of the year of the election. Before the election in 2002, the polling ceremony could take 15 July of the election year. When this time was changed - a change that was agreed upon in Stortinget - a special emphasis was placed on the fact that there were very few voters who voiced in the period from mid-July to mid-August. One also stressed that this period coincided with the holiday settlement, and that the election campaign had not really started. Otherwise, let me just make sure that in a Nordic context, Norway gives liberal opportunities for previewing. In Denmark, the period is three weeks before the election, and in Sweden eight days before the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1033	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It's just that the left hand side -- I also know the center part -- is very busy that the selection is going to be as high as possible. Getting the chance to vote is a civil right and a civic duty, and it's fundamental in a democracy. I like the signals that are given here. They may not be very precise yet, but they will. I have an additional question, which might be a advice in any case: will the Council of State facilitate electronic voting for the groups concerned that are currently not allowed to vote on the basis of today's legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1044	Let me first say why I think it is necessary to make a statement. That's where one is registered. June 30, which today determines the right to vote in a municipality. It's the so-called cut date. The deadline for the approval of the list proposals is today 1 June. Election cards, to be sent to all, are printed today at the end of July and are issued at the beginning of August. That is what makes it important to take a closer look at this, which the representative also asks for. So, electronic voting. The government announced in the 2008 state budget that we are continuing to work with attempts at electronic voting. It must look good, but it is our goal that it should be tested.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1053	Thanks for the answer. This is a matter of concern, among other things. More and Romsdal Fiskerlag, which indicates that many of their members are not least socially engaged, and of course they want to benefit from equal voting rights. So better arrangements for pre-senting, among other things. fishermen in the seagoing fishing fleet are important. A practical suggestion could be that one approves multiple choice locations. Norwegian seamen’s churches are approved as an electoral centre in the extra-territorial services. Is it possible for the Council of State to assess whether a coastguard vessel can be accepted as an opt-out?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1060	Then I'll do something as unusual as answer yes once more. These are constructive proposals from the representative here. I think it's natural that we look at how accessibility can be improved, including by increasing the number of preferences. As the representative said, seamen's churches, coastguard ships and certainly other localities can be evaluated. I hope that I will now be able to hold the deadline, and that any changes can be made on the phone in June, so that we can also make more participation and voting more accessible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1075	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1081	My question goes to the Minister for Transport: ‘The number of road fatalities in the counties in 2007 was 23 persons, which is a total of 10 pst. of the total number of fatalities in traffic in 2007. Much of the cause of these accidents is the bad roads in the counties. The worst road section of E18/E39 between Oslo and Stavanger is the Vigeland-Osestad in West Agder. The current NTP included new investments for this route. According to the information provided on new NTPs, these funds have been removed. Does the Council of State consider this to be a correct decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1090	The representative to whom Skumsvoll refers is his basic material for a new national transport plan, which I got delivered on 17 January this year. This is a technical recommendation within a calculation framework, similar to the 2007 budget proposal. Within such a framework, the State Road Service recommends a strong strengthening of operations and maintenance - and thus also a lower level of investment. One of the projects for which such a priority is given is Vigeland-Osestad. The parcel is prioritised in the submitted but not before the last part of the planning period, which is a postponement relative to the existing NTP. With a higher border, they mean none of the above. this project can be initialised before. Let me stress that the submission from the transport modes is part of the process towards the NTP 2010-2019 notification, which I intend to present to the Stortinget in December of this year. The proposal is public and includes: sent to the county councils and the major municipal councils for pronunciation. These have had a special role in the process, but also all organisations and interest groups can of course express themselves, and I am sure that many will do so. There are many and difficult issues and priorities to deal with through this process, both on the final level of the financial framework and on the distribution of them between sectors, between management levels and between operations, maintenance and investment. In this work, I will be occupied by the fact that the transport sector is fed into resources which enable safe and efficient traffic to be closed with the least possible environmental disadvantage, while at the same time ensuring that the framework is realistic and manageable for those who are to use the transport network. Which route project we find space for through this process, I will come back to in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1099	It is clear that there is a proposal out now, but we are very concerned that already at this point you can see that the result of NTP may be that Vigeland-Osestad falls out. Of course, the optimism of the community has also advised in West Agder. There may be many years to wait before the very bad distance is corrected. The number of traffic fatalities in the Eastern and West Agder counties is twice as high as in the rest of the country, compared to the population. That's probably the result of E18 and E39 being very bad through these states. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State agrees that a lot of attention needs to be paid to poor road sections such as Vigeland-Osestad in a tribal road investigation, and whether funds should not be provided as soon as possible for total development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1106	There is no doubt that there are many places in the country where there is a high risk of accidents and where there is generally too poor a standard. It is also obvious that these are the road sections you will see more closely when entering and giving political priority to the national transport plan. It is a work I will start with after the county councils and the large municipal councils gave their hearing opinions in April. Ergo is not a question I can answer specifically to the representative Skumsvoll today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1111	The rate of expansion of the government for tribal roads has slowed down, and it is slowly following the existing national transport plan. Governments can hardly be comfortable with the fact that, with today’s expansion rate, it will take 60 years to have a satisfactory tribal road network in Norway, and of course also in West Agder. My question, therefore, is whether there should not be a much larger boost in the transport sector by providing more funds, as we had in the older sector a few years ago. It doesn't, in my opinion, monies what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1118	I also want the largest possible frameworks, of course. Contrary to previous affairs ministers, this government has also done something about it. In fact, we have followed up the current national transport plan, which is more ambitious than what was presented by the previous government, where the opposition party plus the 1 billion kroner to the road and 1 billion dollars to the track every year during the period. Of course, it is the wish of the Council of State that we should have a more ambitious investment in the forthcoming national transport plan. I would like to invite you to wide-ranging discussions and a wide-ranging deal about it, because it would also mean that one stands together on the follow-up to the objectives and frameworks of the national transport plan. The main problem with NTP in the past is that one has created plans and action programmes, but has not followed them up. We're now trying to make money, but we see that it's a demanding project because of the high price rise that we have in the market these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1128	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Rv. 3 in Hedmark is a problem route for many. By 16 January 2008 the route Elverum-Rena was so busted that many cars punctured and created many dangerous situations. The road was so bad that even a rescue car was hit by this during its work. In addition, according to the police log, there were mirror-blank roadways and car trains across and across, especially in the area of Hovda Bru. What will and can the Council of State do to ensure that road users on this route have a better and, in particular, safer road to travel on?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1137	The representative of Bredvold informed us that several cars were damaged on 16 January 2008. 3 between the river Elverum and the river Rena in the valley of the east. It's unfortunate that this happens on a main road like rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox Causes of such events rv. 3 and other major roads have been a low priority of maintenance in alternate governments. In addition, the traffic volume has increased more than foreseen, both on Rv. 3 and otherwise on the road network. The sitting government has taken up this and increased the priorities of maintenance. We have in the last two years increased the permissions of asphaltification. From Elverum to Rena it is approx. 30 km. In the summer of 2007, new coverage was provided on the routes that were then considered to have the greatest need. The current section mentioned by the representative Bredvold is part of the 2008 asphalt programme. In order to ensure the traffic of a new tyre is in place, it has been provisionally maintained, and early in week 5 it will be placed a preliminary cover over the worst batches as additional fuses. The second event was asked about the smooth roadway in the area of Hovda Bru. I have been informed that the weather was difficult this evening with precipitation and temperature around 0oC. It had come so much snow that the contractor had sprung out and broke the highway northwards and sprinkled sand on sections with a particularly smooth roadway. While he was in the northern part of the bridge, there came a heavy rainy village in the southern part of the root, around Hovda's bridge. Due to the combination of newly-brown roads and heavy rain, the road was very slippery in a short time, and some car combinations experienced problems and blocked the road. The bridge driver was alerted, he turned and ran south to help with bedding in connection with the rescue of the running gear. In my opinion, it is difficult to fully guard against such events as this one. The unstable winters we have had in recent years with rapid shifts in the weather, large rainfalls and temperatures around 0oC, present challenges both for the state road system and for road users. It is therefore important when such weather and traffic conditions first arise that communication between road users, the State Road Service and the entrepreneurs is so good that the time of driving problems is as short as possible and that the State Road Service can be notified of this by means of its road reports. It is also important that road users are offered and take into account difficult circumstances when they occur. It's not the same thing to take out on the road a winter day as it is in summer. It is important that we, as road users, also take it upon ourselves. I visit the Winter Days of Beitostølen Monday. The winter days are a collection where the State Road Service and the industry sit down and discuss how to improve winter maintenance. I hereby inform you that the Swedish Road Administration must do an even more thorough job of obtaining good and concrete functional contracts and prioritizing control and follow-up of them. None of the claims that the representative of Bredvold addresses in his question can be directly related to poor functional contracts or to poor follow-up of them, which I elaborate on in my answer. Nevertheless, I am busy that we should work in general and practically continuously to improve winter maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1158	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a complete and correct answer. The Council of State also says something about the reason why what happens is happening, among other things. on rv. 3, and that's rv. 3 I'm talking about now. That's where the Council of State says there's been a low priority on maintenance. That's exactly where we agree. Regardless of the government, there should have been more maintenance, of course, and then there's this with increased traffic. In addition, the Council of State said that road users also have a responsibility. Of course they do. But it does not exempt us from the road being as good as possible. The Council of State said it would be an asphalt programme for 2008. It's really nice. She also referred to asphaltification in 2007. I drove that way when the asphalt was laid. The asphalt was very thin. It helps very little to lay asphalt if the groundwork is too poor. The problem with many of our roads is that our basic work is too poor. That's too bad a reason. It's not mass replacement. You put an asphalt layer that's too thin, so you get holes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1167	In the proposal for a national transport plan, as recently presented by the agencies, the state road network has set up a stronger priority for maintenance, precisely on the basis of what Bredvold’s representative points out, that on many occasions it is not enough to lay new asphalt. To take an exact position: On the way up Valdres to the Beitostøl we run two roadheads. Those who attended this meeting asked questions from the hall about why. It's because the road is not such a leg that one can handle it. One had to have one that took the leg, and then one had to have another that took the edge of the road. The road was simply demolished. There is something to say that on many occasions it is not enough to put on asphalt, one must also enter and look at the samples. One must look at the basic structures. As a result, more resources must be given to this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1172	I also asked a question about rv by December 2007. 3rd@item: inlistbox Then the council replied - without me remembering it correctly - something similar to that she should follow closely up rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox I hope the Council of State does so, because as I said, it does not help to put a thin asphalt layer on top of a bad path when the ground is not good enough. There's a lot more to it than that. The Council of State refers to the national transport plan, which goes over a quite long period of time, for a 10-year period. It is some years before it will begin to apply. Nor is it certain that it will be as it is stated in the national transport plan. If I remember correctly, it's 400 million. kr to rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox Will the Council of State here and now promise to rv. 3 is one of the roads that she will definitely give priority to - because of the large traffic volume, because of the heavy traffic volume, and because of the people who live along rv. Three? It is also district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1179	This is the other way I have been asked in today's Question Time to give priority. My answer must be the same to the representative of Bredvold as to the previous representative who asked questions, namely that my political work on the national transport plan - it is, to a maximum extent, a political work that is now taking place in the county councils and in the large city councils - begins after the hearing. I'll get to the right what they say before I start on my heavy prioritization. I hope we get a good dialogue both in the Government and with the opposition in time for the Storing Message to be presented, and in the process of Storingen afterwards. So we'll have time to discuss priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1194	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1200	‘The government has joined the zero vision on the number of fatal injuries and fatalities in traffic. This is an ambitious objective. Traffic safety is complex and requires efforts in a number of areas such as improved infrastructure, safer vehicles, increased knowledge and skills among drivers. What has the Council of State been thinking about helping to increase the skills of drivers and, in particular, young drivers, who are often exposed to serious accidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1207	Occurrence trends show a halve of the number of fatalities in road traffic since 1970. At that time 560 people were killed in road traffic, while in recent years the number has been between 220 and 250. In the same period, traffic is triple. This means that the risk of being killed in road traffic has been reduced by about 85 pst. This shows that a targeted and broadly-consolidated road safety work is producing results, but it also shows that we still have a lot to deal with. Most people killed in traffic accidents are drivers and passengers in cars, and of these, young people are particularly delayed. Although there are often several factors involved in an accident, there is no doubt that the driver has a great responsibility, and that good running skills thereby are a fundamental premise for safe traffic. So I appreciate very much the commitment that the representative shows, and the question that is asked. In accordance with the zero vision, it is also a clear goal for the Government to lower the risk to young drivers, including young drivers. by prioritising driver training. In 2005, modular driver training was introduced. Training is now based on the principle of a step-by-step acquisition of competence, so that it is an intention to achieve the goal of one step in order to gain access to and have a good exchange of training at the next stage. Basic knowledge of road safety, risk understanding, etc. is a key element of training and is expected to provide increased road safety in the form of a fall in accidents. Basic transitional arrangements have been trained first for all driver card applicants from mid-2006. It is important that the scheme now takes a time to assess whether adjustments are needed. The Directorate-General for Road Transport will evaluate this at the earliest opportunity in 2009. As the training scheme requires increased competence for both sensors and traffic instructors, the Road Directorate, in cooperation with the traffic school industry and traffic teacher training, has launched the ‘Power Roof for Good Driver Training’ project from 2007. The basic vocational training course was introduced on 1 July 2003. The course shall provide a basic understanding of traffic and be the starting point for all further driver training. Only the person who has completed such a course is allowed to exercise. Statistics show that high accident risks are largely associated with low running experience. Thus, the state's road system makes a great effort to get young people to run a lot before they sign up for a pilot test. The legislation provides for the possibility of taking a basic vocational training course in the school. The Ministry and the Directorate of Roads will continue to work to increase the number of public schools to provide a road basic course. I have, in cooperation with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, started a pilot project, ‘Feeder training in relation to secondary school – better and cheaper in the districts’. The project will focus on road safety and the practical organisation of driver training for young people in the districts and will provide useful experience base for further cooperation between school and traffic schools. Yesterday, I visited Firda's secondary school, one of the six schools that are part of this project. They have a long-term training course. Included in the basic traffic course are 67 hours of theory, which extends over three years. One also has contracts with parents and students for a certain amount of running training before one can sign up to take a certificate. There is no doubt that stretching training beyond the time provides a better understanding of the complexity encountered in traffic. Unfortunately, the percentage of strokes, which is between 50 and 60 on a national basis, is at this school 15 on the theory section. In practice, the average deletion rate is 20, while students who have completed this training have only 3 pst. Delete. It means that one of these is about something that we need to look at. The project shall be evaluated through NTNU by a follow-up evaluation. The state road network has also launched a project aimed at developing more knowledge of individual high-risk groups in order to identify effective responses to risk behaviour. Unfortunately, young drivers are such a high-risk group. The Transport Economic Institute has now been entrusted with the task of following two annual coals with 16-year-olds and 18-year-olds to learn more about their knowledge and behaviour in traffic. The project was expected to be completed in 2010 and the results will set important premises for further efforts in this area. Several specific responses to youth have been implemented by the various actors in the field of road safety. The ‘From’ campaign to the State Road Administration and Jenten’s Traffic Action under the auspices of Safe Traffic is two examples of such action. ‘From now on’ was launched more than 10 years ago in Sogn and Fjordane, and the evaluation shows a positive outcome. Experience has shown that coordination of several actions is effective. For example, holding campaigns have a greater impact if they are combined with targeted controls. This action is now being continued in other states as well. Several places have also established a separate bus and taxi service for young people, as a good alternative to coming home safely. The offer can hopefully also reduce the amount of promille running at the times of weekends when many of the openings occur. I think that schemes like «Feature home for a 50-note note» have both a direct and an indirect security effect. Firstly, they reduce the number of young people on the roads at a particular time of accident and, secondly, reduce the focus on road safety. In addition, I would like to point out that other road safety measures that are being implemented also help to reduce the number of accidents involving young people, such as road accidents. establishment of different types of centre parts, repair of lateral terrain, fixing and enforcement of speed limits, etc. Cooperation with the police is a particularly important element in this work. The broad but targeted effort towards drivers in general and young people in particular is continuing. I expect that the forthcoming evaluation of the driver training and implementation of the high-risk group establishment project will make an important contribution to the development of new and effective tools in the work on increased driving skills and against youth accidents. I am pleased that the trend is also busy with the role of the individual driver in road safety, and I want to emphasize that I am very loud about proposals and views.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1239	The left, as the Council of State also says, has for a long time focused on this matter and especially on the issue of traffic schools. The accident commission has just issued a recommendation that authorised traffic schools should approve the candidates for the driving test. In this way, traffic schools will be more accountable and used in their competences. We have a lot of good traffic schools here in this country. Does the Council of State think that this can be the way to go in order for us to get better young and newly-trained drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1246	There is no doubt that having adequate running training is a decisive element in reducing the risk of accidents. And that also shows the statistics. When we get 26-27-28 years, we reduce the risk of being involved in accidents significantly. But it's probably not just about age, it's mostly about one of them having run-trained. A better understanding of the traffic image. In this context, of course, the proposal from the Committee on Civil Liberties is interesting, and I will definitely look at it more closely -- I haven't had time to do it yet -- and what consequences both practical and otherwise it might have. I think it is a constructive input into the debate on the common objective we all have of reducing the risk of accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1251	The left considers that publication of percentages of blanks at the various schools can be of great value and that it is a basic democratic principle. Aanestad of Data Protection says in the magazine Trafikkskolan: ‘This information actually provides consumers with information that will help them to choose a driving school that cares if they reach their goal of obtaining a driving licence and becoming a safe and good driver.’ Will the Minister for Transport arrange for this type of statistics to be published?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1261	Once again, I want to thank you for a recording that I want to go in and look at. Some of the things that struck me yesterday when I visited the Firda School, where the running ball was also invited -- it's a running ball that takes care of the practical here -- were the hold we met from the instructors, the personal commitment they showed to the students, and that reflects in the students I talked to. They felt that they were cared for. The important thing was that they should be good drivers. As one of them said, it wasn't necessarily so important that she got the certificate for the 18th birthday, but that she got it over time, and that she was going to be a good driver. The holders are important to get into the individual student, and it may be that publishing the ironing percentage will be a tool to promote holding that is unlovable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1271	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘E18 between Tvedestrand and Arendal is a highly trafficable part of the route through East Agder. In the Questionnaire on 7 November 2007, the Council of State replied to questions from the undersigned that the work on the new E18 on this route could be started within five years. However, in the proposal for NTP, presented on 17 January 2008, there is no room for promise by the Council of State! There were 23 deaths on the roads in Agder in 2007. What did the Council of State actually mean by its answer in Question Time on 7 November 2007 concerning the E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1280	As I also answer question 9 today, I received on 17 January this year the transport budgets provided their professional basic material for a new national transport plan, which has been developed within a mathematical planning framework similar to the 2007 budget proposal. Let me once again stress that the transport bill is part of the process towards the National Transport Plan 2010-2019, which I intend to present to the Stortinget in December of this year. In Question Time on Wednesday, 7 November 2007, I answered Andersen that the line E18 between Arendal and Tvedestrand is part of a concept currency for the Langangen-Grimstad route. This is a work that has been started, and it will eventually be carried out external quality assurance, called KS1. In my reply of 7 November, I indicated that a realistic estimate of the time spent planning would be about five years. There is currently nothing to suggest that this estimate still does not exist. As I reply to the corresponding questions in Question Time on 7 March and 7 November 2007, this section could be assessed in conjunction with the National Transport Plan 2010-2019. This, of course, stands by layers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1291	It only went three days after I had submitted this question, before there was another human being killed on this blood-stained killing stretch, the E18 between Arendal and Tvedestrand. I will briefly quote what a localist wrote in a leader about this accident: «Sunday morning it happened again. A new fatal accident at E18 in Arendal, this time at Nesheim School. [[...]] [[...]] A young woman in the late 20s in a van died in a violent collision with a vehicle train.» And on the other hand, ‘How long shall our politicians leave what is now called the ‘Death Road’ between Tvedestrand and Arendal as it does?’ I'll pass this question on to the Council of State, once again: how long will this highway between Arendal and Tvedestrand have to lie as it is today, and perhaps require even more innocent human lives for many, many more years, before the Council of State realizes that something must be done with this two-mile-long, extra dangerous stretch on the E18?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1306	This is the third question today, where I am asked to make a promise about what should be presented in the national transport plan notice in December. As I have said in connection with the two previous questions, the proposal now goes from the etats to the county to the hearing, and then the government is going to start its work, and I'm of course going to lay the groundwork for it in my department. It is not possible for me today to enter with promise on any distance. I was two days ago at a memorial in Uppland for 28 deaths on the roads in Uppland -- most very young. On the way home from the memorial, we ran, a few kilometers from my own hometown, past an accident with another younger driver who had died. All over the country, we have too many accidents, and an important part of the work on the national transport plan will of course be to look at how we can put in place measures to prevent the corresponding accidents in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1311	In the Agder counties, 23 people were killed in traffic in 2007. The two Agder counties have no more than 5 pst. Of the inhabitants of this country, but we have 10 pst. of the traffic accidents, and much of the explanation for why we are so overrepresented in Agder in relation to the rest of the country in the case of road accidents, are just the miserable roads we have down there. We know that traffic accidents are about death, about mutilation, tragedies that could have been avoided if only government council and government had really wanted to do something about this by, among other things. building better roads. But it doesn't seem like this government will, and I have to say from this pulpit that I get depressed, I get upset, I get sick, I get sick, and I get directly pissed at hearing these ice-cold and cynical standard responses that we always get from the Minister of Transport every time we ask and bring this problem that we have with roads on the South, on the way to the Bigton.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1316	The President would like to point out that one of the words used by the representative is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1319	I'm almost muted to the right by the representative. I was in a church in Oppland. I met relatives -- I've done it in many places else in the country. I also thought the representative should take a walk and talk to the relatives. I'm not taking this lightly. I'm actually following up a transport plan that the previous government probably didn't add up ambitiously enough, but that opposition party then reinforced. Actually, I'm the first minister to do it, and we're the first government to do it. We focus heavily on road safety work, but unlike some survey representatives, we also focus on the whole width. In connection with the previous question, I did well for the broad commitment to road safety, which has led us to halve the number of fatalities, while the traffic volume is triple. The risk of death in traffic in Norway is reduced by 85 pst. due to a wide range of work. Only in the last few years we've built midparts, some of which highlight as the only solution. We shall continue to do the broad work, and we shall do it in respect of those who are in danger of traffic and in respect of all those who are injured or have died in the traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1327	This question, from the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare who directs the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1330	‘Solk oil, fish sticks, cocoa and cappuccino powder are examples of foods containing trans-fat. The risk of cardiovascular disease increases by 25 per cent with the intake of approximately 25 per cent. 5 grams of trans-fat a day, and high trans-fat intake may also lead to cancer. In Denmark, there is now a maximum level of trans-fat in food, but in Norway, producers are not required to report the fat in food. What will the Council of State do to ensure that consumers are informed about the trans-fat content of foodstuffs?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1337	Trans-fatty acids can increase the risk of heart attacks, and therefore the intake should be restricted - as I also feel is the intention of the questioner. Nutrition authorities have been working for a long time to reduce trans-fat content in the diet, and today the diet of the Nordics contains little trans-fat - fortunately. Trans-fatty acids are formed by partial toughening of oils or by bacterial activity in the rumen of ruminants. Trans-fatty acids are present in industrially produced foods where partially hardened oils can be used as an ingredient, and naturally in milk and meat from ruminants such as cattle and sheep. Early in the 1990s, the authorities and the food industry cooperated to reduce the levels of trans-fatty acids in industrially manufactured products. This cooperation was successful. The levels of trans-fatty acids were reduced in a number of product groups such as margarine, bakery products and dry products. Today, the average intake of transfatty acids by the Nordics is roughly in line with recommendations from the World Health Organisation, and therefore a professionally assessed that this is not necessary per year. to introduce a maximum level at present. When the authorities and industry started working together to reduce the level of trans-fatty acids in the diet, margarine was the main source of trans-fat. Now there's only insignificant amounts of transfat in margarine. The main sources of transfat in the diet today are fatty dairy and meat products. However, we cannot rule out that the levels of trans-fatty acids may be high in some industrially produced products. That's why it's important all the time to follow developments carefully - and we do that - in terms of the composition of our food, both Norwegian and imported. I would also like to consider new measures on this, if necessary. Content of trans-fat oils in, inter alia: oils, cakes and biscuits are now being analysed. With regard to the issue of information to the consumer on trans-fat content, Norwegian competent authorities recommend that the food be labelled with ‘trans-fat’. On label issues, however, Norwegian legislation is harmonised with EU legislation. The EU label directive is currently under review. In this context, Norwegian authorities are working towards the EU to provide compulsory labelling of trans-fat, saturated fat, sugar and salt.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1350	I am pleased with the Council's response, because the more you work with this area, the more surprised you are with the amount of trans-fat used in different products. I think there are a lot of consumers who are not aware of the risk you run if the usual diet contains too much transfat. It turns out, as the Social and Health Directorate said last year, that we have had a positive development in the diet in the last 20 years, but unfortunately it has stopped. They point out that some of the reasons might be that you eat more street food and ready-to-eat food. We know that just this type of food contains more trans-fat than what is desirable. That is why I believe that we need to inform ourselves more clearly about this. There is a total accumulation that says that it is cheaper to prevent than to repair. The challenge is, how will the Council of State do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1357	I fully agree with the representative Holten Hemdal that there is still a job to be done here. I think it is also quite right that there are a good number of consumers who do not know how much trans-fat there is in some goods, for example. in some food for the street. This is one of the reasons why we have now started to analyse, among other things. a lot of oils that are also used in that connection -- and, as I said, also in some cakes and biscuits. I believe that one of the most important things we can do is put in place a labelling system in which it is clearly stated that this product contains so much trans-fat and so much trans-fat, and then a sailor must also inform even more that this is not a good thing to have too much of. The average consumption is per person. Today at a relatively good level, but I think Holten Hemdal is quite right that here there are also differences as to who eats what. That's why it's very important to prevent as much as possible. So we're still going to have a very close dialogue with the EU to put in place the labelling system, and also in order to be able to inform even more that one needs to be aware that one can get too much trans-fat in itself if one eats it or so, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1364	My last follow-up question is directly related to the work we are doing towards the EU. When does the Council of State believe that such a directive, if any, may be in place? Because if that is the key to getting further in the fight against this fat, it is also important to know when we have the key in our hands, so that we can inform the consumer. It is essential for us to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and, where appropriate, cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1372	I can unfortunately not answer today just when this is done, because that's what we know not to decide. But what I can confirm is that we have very close dialogue with the EU. We're trying to push. I have personally had several meetings with Health Commissioner Kyprianou on this matter too, so I hope that this will be in place soon. I can't guarantee that, but we're going to try to contribute to it. So we're also now working, for information, to put in place a separate label scheme, first of all, a Norwegian label scheme, so that as consumers we should know more about this being healthy, and this is not so healthy. I hope I can be in place in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1380	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In the evening post on 10 January 2008, there is an article on the lack of review of criminal cases in Oslo. The Oslo police are struggling with large file volumes and a decrease in the clearance percentage. The Council of State has previously stated that Oslo Police should make better use of their allocated resources. What will the Council of State do with the problems the Oslo police are struggling with, and in what way can these be resolved better in the future than is the case today?"
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1389	Initially, I would like to say that Oslo Police District has many challenging tasks, and that the staff in the district are making a great effort to combat crime and solve matters. I believe that the Oslo police district has addressed many of the new challenges in the field of crime in a very good way over the last few years. In recent years, the Oslo police district has seen large increases in budgets to solve these problems. Only from 2007 to 2008 have appropriations increased by 73 million. kr. The percentage of crimes committed in Oslo was per year. 1 January 20.8. On a national basis, the figure was 36.5. That shows some of the challenges - not only with regard to the purely police tasks, but also with regard to the crime scene in Oslo. In line with the police in Norway, the Oslo police district has a particular challenge in resolving winning crimes. That's what's in the low clearance percentage. As of 1 October, the clearance rate was 9.2 p.m., which is too low. The country average was 16.7 pst. It should be added that the share of the Oslo police district in the total gain crime on a national basis is 27 p.m. and that the proportion of the win crimes where there is no suspected or no crime has increased further. People lose wallets and cell phones, and other things are also stolen where you almost have no track to follow. Oslo Police District has a particularly heavy and important role to play in the crime-fighting work of the Norwegian police force as a whole. This is particularly the case in those parts of criminal proceedings that can be characterised as serious organised crime. Over time, the Oslo Police District has been working on a change process within the organisation, in which it is assumed that ‘the proposed organisational changes would improve the exploitation of the overall competence and resources of the police district and provide a more flexible organisation with a view to solving the future tasks of the district, in accordance with the vision and strategy of the district’. Some organisational changes have been made in this process, including: with the establishment of its own strategic staff and a more pure cultivation of the core tasks of the district planning and crime department. However, work remains, among others: in relation to the organisation of police stations where the work on the crime of profits is central. I would like to add here that from the Department of Justice we are now focusing on the issue of the development of the number of police posts in Oslo. It is the government's ambition that we should increase the number of police posts in Norway, and Oslo is here a central area. The police directorate supervised the Oslo Police District in September-October 2007, including the following: the organisation was brought up, which was also the subject of the query. The directorate’s feedback from supervision is now being addressed in the Oslo Police District. The district achieves good results in a number of areas on which it is based. In this context, I would like to refer to examples of the replication project, the replay project and the action against trafficking in human beings, which it has been important for us in the Ministry of Justice to get started. I would also believe that the effort to extend the use of DNA, which is to happen during this year, will help to increase the percentage of intelligence also for the profitability crime in the future. The experience gained in the United Kingdom shows that the clearance of burglaries increased from 14 pst. to 45 pst. where DNA records could be used. I think that's actually the most important strategic approach we can take to get the percentage of information, as the situation is now. There will also be a central funding for DNA analyses, which has been a central requirement both from the Workers' Party and from the Progress Party. This is scheduled to happen from 1 September this year. As the representative of Ellingen is familiar with, it is included in the current year's budget. I have been assured that, in cooperation with the police chief, the Police Directorate will follow up the Oslo Police District Supervisory Report, so that the police district will succeed in its efforts to achieve the best possible organisation that, in the long term, along with the DNA reform, will be able to deliver good results in all areas of criminal justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1408	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The most important tool in Oslo police districts is, perhaps, that they have a lot of good employees. Without it things might have looked even worse. At the same time, it is in the Council’s response that Oslo police districts undoubtedly face challenges as they do. Today, obviously, there is not enough control over it. As I understand it, Oslo police districts have some surplus on last year's budget, which I think is unfortunate, in view of the challenges they have, and the lack of results. I assume that there is something that the Oslo police district itself, the Police Directorate and not least political leadership in the department are conscious - and want to do something about. Those who pay the price for the lack of quality delivered in Oslo are the people who live in this city, and I think that one should focus on further. Of course, when the Council of State refers to a 9.2-declaration rate in the case of winning crimes, it is too low. How does the Council of State continue to look at the possibilities? Is this a management problem in Oslo, or is there any other thing that should be addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1419	I think that's reason to stress the good results that the Oslo Police actually have. We can very much characterize Oslo as a safe city, where there are an incredible number of good police services. We rarely hear about this in the public debate - it is a good thing when things go wrong, that the police's activities are described. I need to say that the commitment of the Ministry of Justice and the Government to improving the police services in Oslo is not primarily based on the belief that there is a full crisis out there. It's a very good financial management, which has resulted in a profit being drawn from last year, which the representative pointed out quite correctly, into 2008. It's positive -- but there's a cross-thinking in the discussion that there's far too little financial resources in the police district, all the time left is estimated to be over 40 million. kr after 2007. We have many challenges, but our work is mainly based on Oslo showing that it is useful to bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1428	I agree with the last. If we hadn't just had to go home, the whole crowd -- there wouldn't be any solution at all. After all, the point must be to improve governance and management and thereby achieve better goals. I fully agree that there are many areas of good practice in Oslo, but I assume that the Council of State agrees that 9.2 p.m. the resolution of winning crimes is too poor. That means that over 90 pst. of the cases are gone. There are, of course, a lot of things with an unknown perpetrator -- you may not be sure of either place or anything else. But nevertheless, 9.2 pst. reasonably bulky. When you look at it against the fact that Oslo has a significant surplus, which the Council of State has now pointed to, it's a little surprising that you couldn't actually use that money to strengthen the services last year, rather than bring a surplus to this year. I assume that when you budget, both at the time of treatment in the Stortinget and at the time of the preparatory work in the department, you have a plan that the appropriations given will actually be used in that year, and not that they will be transferred to the following year. In that case, a new budgeting system has been put in place which, at least, I am not familiar with. My question is: in what way has the Council of State intended to ensure that Oslo, in line with the rest of the country, will more fully meet the requirements and expectations of the Stortinge, among others. with regard to budgeting and target achievement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1440	We have a close dialogue with the police director and also with the police chief in Oslo on the issues that are now being raised. The Oslo police district has a budget of over DKK 1.4 billion. We're concerned about keeping the economy in order, so you don't spend more money than you actually get. And then we see that this year you have a profit. At the same time, it is not larger than that it is permissible to transfer it to next year's operations. Some of that I would like to assume - without having brought complete clarity to it - will be linked to investments, which may have to be paid later. But it is of course important to us that we get the most use of the means that are available, especially at a time when the Oslo police district is under pressure. And I hope that during this year we can just get in place, among other things. clarification of police posts. With several officials out there related to a large recording at the Police College and not least with the launch of the DNA reform, I'm going to -- to say the public -- to think that the money will get bones to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1451	‘Oslo experiences a massive increase in tagging. The increase has been particularly marked since Oslo City Council decided to create a legal municipal tagging wall. In particular, the tagging has gone beyond Oslo's T-Bahn wagon kits, where cleaning after the intrusion is intended to cost almost SEK 70 million. Tagging leads to sluggishness and is linked by many with insecurity. What has the Council of State intended to do to deal with the problem, and what punishment does the Council of State think is appropriate for those who are being taken for illegal tagging?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1458	Let me first say that illegal tagging is some swine. But it is a challenge that not only the Ministry of Justice has to resort to; it is important that many take responsibility for that issue. We're not going to solve the problem of tagging with criminal reactions alone, as the question almost raises. To ensure accurate and up-to-date information on the problem of tagging in Oslo, I had a meeting with a number of representatives from the Municipality of Oslo, including the Progress Party Peter N. Myhre. The leadership of the Police Directorate and the Oslo Police District were also present at this meeting. It was a good meeting. On the part of the municipality, a detailed description of the extent of tagging was given, which appeared to be very serious - with great damage and at my discretion an activity that also helps to give signals externally to both younger and older people about a behaviour towards the community that is totally unacceptable. For this reason, it is important for the Government to prevent better and create security also on the basis of such a problem. Better prevention is achieved through good and strategic cooperation between local actors. In order to strengthen and make the local interaction, the Government actively advocates the establishment of police councils. These are questions that it is natural to attribute just to such arenas there, among other things. top management in the local police district and top managers in the municipality meet. In Oslo, police councils were established in 2007. In the light of good strategic analyses, they shall contribute together to the implementation of actions for, inter alia: prevention of tagging and other forms of crime. In the meeting, the municipality stated that they are aware of their responsibility to prevent and combat tagging within the city’s borders. There has been close cooperation between local authorities, police and Oslo Sporveer over time to tackle the challenges. The municipality has also used guard companies to patrol exposed areas. However, the increase in last year's tagging, especially for the new T-Bahns, made the municipality worried about the resources of the police to meet the problem. There was a perception that the Oslo police in the last few years had not prioritised their efforts against tagging. However, prior to the meeting in the department, Oslo police districts and those responsible for the T-Bahn operation had a meeting where a common strategy was put in place for this. A key element here is to strengthen cooperation between the police operating centre and the Operational Leaders at the T-Bahn. Closer intelligence cooperation and the establishment of contact persons at the various police stations are now also part of this strategy. I think that is absolutely crucial if the police are to succeed in this work. I was reassured by hearing about the organisational steps that are now being taken by both the municipality and the police, i.e. the responsible parties, to tackle this challenge. With the increased resources the police have recently received, including in Oslo, we do not, in my opinion, face a lack of resources. In order to make sure that the cooperation between the municipality and the police works after the intention, I suggested to the parties in the meeting that we meet at the Oslo T-Bahn business - then there will be a T-Bahn trip - to the summer and take a fresh look at the situation. There are also questions about which penalties are appropriate for those taken for tagging. The municipality of Oslo informed the meeting that last year they reported 2 500 cases of tagging. The municipal representatives had a very nuanced view of who was behind this tagging. On the one hand, it is about people from a more militant environment - as was described as - who are acting threateningly and violently in contact with railway workers, i.e. a completely unacceptable behaviour. On the other hand, young boys who are likely to participate in damage works see. I'm saying this because the criminal reactions have to be different. The municipality meets approx. 50 times a year in the Council of Conflict, where they confront the youngest group of tags with the consequences of their actions and make agreements with the offenders. The municipality felt that fines on this group were too spooky, and believes that the process of conflict management is better suited. I fully agree with that. At the same time, the municipality is strongly committed to harsher punishments for the group of taggers who have, over the years, run their socially harmful activities, who organise their activities and actively recruit others, and who resort to violence against tram staff. I fully agree with that. I was impressed by the nuanced views of the municipality on how to punish and respond to tags. I think it's very useful. I join the municipality's view in this way. It is certainly important that you have the opportunity to react in conflict councils, so that people, especially younger ones, among other things. can be set to clean afterwards and wash and clean. In my opinion, it is precisely the law that offers our criminal frameworks and responses that allow such well-adapted responses, whether they be robust prison sentences against key people in the environment, or the transfer of the criminal case to conflict resolution for those who for the first time are doing harm. In this way, I am pleased that we here in the Stortinget, including the Advance Party, have been so eager to expand the conflict management system just to meet this kind of crime, where we give people an opportunity to actively repair damage, and not just passive sit and zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1484	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have also received an in-depth report from the meeting to which the Council of State referred. But now the Council of State itself avoids the core of the question. It is such that tagging was relatively minimal in 2005. It was thus heavily controlled because of the rapid reaction of the city council to tagging. Then we got the fatal decision in Oslo City Council on 15 March 2006, when it was allowed for the districts to decide to have legal tags. It has led to a huge flowering of also illegal tagging. So a political decision has had that kind of negative impact. I suppose the Council of State has some influence on its party colleagues in Oslo City Hall, and the Oslo Workers' Party was the party most concerned with this legitimate tagging wall. Will the Council of State take the initiative against Rune Gerhardsen in Oslo City Hall, so that the Labour Party turns around in this case and goes against having these legal tags, which the police dislike very much?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1493	I think we should be careful to give too simple a picture of the reasons for tagging in Oslo. If we think we're going to solve this challenge by reversing a political decision made at some point in Oslo City Council, I think we're all going to be disappointed. It is not that simple a criminal policy. So simple is not the handling of tagging either. I am not sure the conclusions that the representative is now drawing are correct. We have good dialogue with our local party people in Oslo. However, I would rather recommend that the representative of the Advance Party now takes the opportunity to contact, among other things. The People of the Labour Party in Oslo City Government to hear about the good experiences such as: Rune Gerhardsen, in his time, acted as town councillor in the fight against tagging, where good measures were taken that also contributed to the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1500	The City Council, which I mentioned instead, had almost stopped the tagging in Oslo in 2004-2005. The police can confirm that, too. Then there was a decision in Oslo City Council to have a legal tag wall. The consequence of this has become an intrusion, including: Infringement of T-cars, also inside T-cars, which it has cost Oslo Sporveier 70 million. kr to clean only. That's what's the truth. We have also experienced pure vandalism, where someone has thrown ten liters of paint from the level crossing down onto the vehicle train on the move. It's also a consequence of this. When the police today discover people with carrier bags with spray paint, they can't do anything, because they say they're going down to the legal tag wall on Hausmania to tag on the legal wall. Two years ago, they could confiscate this. They can't do that today. Although, of course, not one political decision is to blame, we should not create more problems for ourselves as politicians when the police are already lacking resources, and we are wasting resources that Oslo Sporveier could use to improve public transport in Oslo. It's a simple decision we can make, and at least we can do the best we can as politicians to make it the most difficult to ingrain private property around this city.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1510	There was no question, so I just heard that the representative Tybring-Gjedde has opinions about discussions in Oslo City Council. Maybe he should address that to politicians in Oslo City Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1518	I have a question to the Brustad State Council: ‘The government wanted active politicians into health enterprise boards to represent the people. When Health East and Health South were merged, a new government was appointed, without political representation from Eastfold and Akershus. Last week, three politicians were replaced. Was it by chance that the Council of State replaced these with new representatives from the same counties, and is there any explanation as to why politicians who would represent over 800,000 inhabitants of Eastfold and Akershus would be kept out of the government for the next two years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1527	The appointment of members of the board of directors of regional health enterprises is an important but also very demanding task. The regions have their specific challenges to be taken into account by sea, and a number of external stakeholders want their concerns to be taken into account, and this is understandable. When appointing members of the Boards of Directors of the regional health undertakings, there are many considerations to be balanced against each other. I have stressed the following criteria: competence - that is, for example. management experience, management experience, economic competence, medical competence, political experience, etc. - geographical representation, party political representation and gender balance. Based on input from county councils, Oslo Municipality and Sametinget, I have put together the board of directors I believe is well able to meet the challenges of the regions, while trying to meet the needs and wishes of the stakeholders. I have also stressed that we should have a balance between continuity and renewal. The members of the Management Board chosen by and among the elected members of the public shall constitute the majority of the members of the Management Board appointed by them. This represents six in the number for Health South-East RHF. As you know, there are ten municipalities in this recording area, including the municipality of Oslo. Ensuring political representation from all counties is therefore difficult to implement. Therefore, when appointing members of the Management Board, I have also included in the assessment the geographical affiliation of the other five members of the Management Board. This gives a slightly more nuanced picture, and I can mention that one of the ordinary members of the board of directors is from Østfold. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the members of the Boards of Directors of the regional health undertaking are not responsible for local special interests, but must be able to see the whole region as a whole and ensure that overall national health policy objectives are met as a result of the whole region's 'care for' responsibilities. I'm glad that the appointment of the boards for regional health companies is a great commitment. They provide great social values, and it is therefore important that we have competent administrations that are able to discharge their responsibilities and powers. I am of the opinion that we have carried out a thorough and involved process to ensure good and competent governance, and believe that those who are now sitting there have good conditions to ensure that the leadership given them is respected, in order to ensure that overall national health policy objectives are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1542	I would like to thank you for your answer. I want to start by saying that the Progress Party was basically against politicians on the board. We also know that one of the criteria is that political representatives should be active in local governments and county councils. They are proposed by their own counties, whose expectations are that they will shed light on the state's interests in the corporate governance. During the next two years, important decisions will be taken on the future organisation of the capital area, which will affect Akershus and the Hospital Østfold, where the Kalnes extension may be the most important. Isn't it just when such major issues are going to be dealt with, that the political input should be important in a government? What is the reason why the former Health East, which was the largest region, now has only two political representatives, while Health South is now represented by four?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1551	I just want to repeat that putting together these important boards is a demanding task. I've tried to balance all the considerations against each other. But it's very important for me to stress that it's not where you live, and where you come from, which is what should be leading when you sit on these boards. What is the task of those who sit on these boards is to ensure that patients, in this context throughout the whole of the South-East region, receive good quality health care and rapid help. I understand that the representative is concerned about the hospital in Østfold. I just want to repeat that the hospital is coming, and that it will not be decisive how many representatives on the board are from Eastfold. I would otherwise point out that Randi Talseth, who is sitting there as owner-appointed, comes from Eastfold. But everyone is responsible for seeing the whole region, not just for what they come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1558	I have a little bit of trouble catching up what really was the government's opinion of having politicians in the government, if not for representing the different districts. But I hear that the Council of State is pleased with its distribution. We see that there are very large protests in the newspapers, both in terms of the geographical distribution around the country, and in terms of political bias. There's reason to be concerned when it's also suggested that they might be the most engaged--read: considerate--be replaced on the first occasion. More district policy, more noise and more commitment was what was written in the newspapers after one year. State Secretary Arvid Libak then said that the management of the department had the impression that the arrangement worked well, and that they had been very careful that all the parties were represented according to the conditions of strength in the states. The Progress Party has been very disillusioned in the last elections and has had many skilled politicians with special involvement in health. Why has the Council not ensured that the Progress Party is also represented by the strengths of these health enterprise boards?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1567	Exposure is good. It is not true that those who have been replaced in any controller have been replaced because they should be “brilliant”. That it's discussion, it's completely legal and completely okay. That's democracy. But when the Government believes that it is important to have political elected representatives in these governments, it is because we believe that politicians have a lot of skills of different kinds that are important to provide these governments. But these governments are not an arena for politics. While promoting and supporting one's opinions, the job of those in the board of directors is to implement national objectives and leadership in order to offer a good health policy to all patients in all regions. That's what the job is, not to represent one particular state.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1575	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The head of the regional health enterprise in Central Norway is from Nord-Trøndelag. The administration is located in the same state. At the same time, we see a weakening of More and Romsdal's influence in the health business board. When, in addition, the Council of State has replaced political elected Torgeir Dahl from the Right with one from the SV, the board is about to become quite so political red. The region of Romesdal is not now represented in the Governing Board. Will the Council of State justify the deterioration and why Dahl is removed at the same time as the government parties are strengthened?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1584	The Management Board, as it is known, is the top body of responsibility and authority of the Regional Health Agency and manages large social values. The designation of competent governance competent in relation to the region’s challenges is therefore particularly important to ensure that overall national health policy objectives are met. As I explained in my previous answer to the question from the representative Giltun, I have placed emphasis on competence, geographical representation, party political representation and gender balance as the main criteria for the appointment of directors of regional health enterprises. I have tried to balance the continuity up to renewal. For the period 2006-2008, the board of Health Mid-Norway RHF consisted of four representatives from More and Romesdal, four representatives from the South-Trundellag and one representative from the North-Trundellag. In the new Governing Board, the difference is more even, where each of the counties now has three representatives in the new Governing Board. I would like once again to stress that the representatives of the boards of regional health companies are not supposed to take care of local special interests, but I expect them to see the region as a whole and to ensure that overall national health policy objectives are respected as part of the region’s ‘career’ responsibilities. I have a great deal of understanding that the composition of the boards of regional health companies is strongly committed to the local environment. I think it's good that there is such a commitment to such an important sector as the specialist health service is. A broad and involved process has been carried out to ensure good governance compositions for the coming years. I am of the opinion that we have succeeded in this work, and I am very pleased with the governments we have now received for the regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1597	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Media look-up across More and Romesdal shows that there is a massive response to the changes made by the Council of State to the Health Mid-Norway Board. Trustees of the Molde Hospital and the General Council of the Lege Association call the removal of Torgeir Dahl for political cleansing. Labour Party rapporteur Per Kristian Øyen in Kristiansund and Labour Party veteran and former LO leader in Møre and Romesdal Melvin Steinsvoll also strongly joined with Labour Party politician Frank Ove Sæther, who had the following opinion in Romsdals Budstikke: "This is so bad that I have trouble believing it's true." What role should a politically elected representative play in the Regional Health Boards, and became member of the board of directors of Torgeir Dahl for clear-spoken and sensitive to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1611	The answer to that is no. I want to distance myself from the fact that this should be a political purge. The right has got a new representative, a good man named Joar Olav Grøtting from Nord-Trøndelag. I assume that he is as valuable as other Right-Representatives from other counties, who are then on that board. I would also like to point out that it is difficult to put together a government where you will also take into account where people come from. For example, I want to do this. Remember that on the board of Health south-east there is no one from Akershus County with at all - it is much larger than for example. Molde. It says something about how hard it is to put together such controls. I would like to underline once again that it is not such that someone should represent a municipality or a county. Those who sit on the board shall have the ability to ensure that all residents, in this case in Health Mid-Norway, receive good services, whether they live in More and Romesdal, in the North-Tronde Team or in the South-Tronde Team.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1620	The health company Nord-Trøndelag, which is less than Health Sunnmøre, is awarded three representatives - Health Sunnmøre 2. At the same time, the health company Nordmøre and Romsdal, which are about the same size as Nord-Trøndelag, have one representative. In addition to the Chairperson and Vice-Chair, six of the nine political elected representatives have been assigned to the two trophies. My last follow-up question to the Council of State will be: Will the Council of State contribute to ensuring a fairer distribution of strength between the three counties in the health region, while ensuring that the region of Rome is also represented on the board of the health enterprise?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1627	I believe that there is a good distribution between the three countries concerned: three representatives each. I remind you that in the last term of government, for example, it was. only one from Nord-Trøndelag. I notice very well that the Right is more concerned about having a representative from Romesdal than one from the Nord-Trøndelag, which they then got into this context. And-- again, it's demanding to put together controllers. This isn't about getting rid of so-called hardy board members, because I haven't experienced that Torgeir Dahl has been, but it's about putting together a board where all those sitting there, the ability to see the whole of the region, and not just for that municipality or county they come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1637	This question, from the representative Harald Valved to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Research and Higher Education who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Research and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1640	‘The high-pitched classes in secondary schools are a very good offer for young people who want to bet on sports alongside the school. Students complete 4 years of secondary school instead of 3 years of age. The timeframe is the basic idea of the plan. In the 2006–07 school year, the State loan fund allocated over 3 years of living allowance, arguing that students do not have enough hours per year. school week. How can the Council of State help these young people to receive full scholarships in each of the four years, so that they can also play full part in sport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1647	Support is provided from the State Loan Fund for Education to Students in Continuing Training for as long as the student is entitled to training under the Training Act. When it comes to the size of the educational support, it is given according to the study burden of the applicant. This means that there is support for education that can be counted in the form of diplomas or study credits. If activities have been put in during the school day that do not give such counting, there is no basis for support through the Loan Fund. In the case of part-time training, the amount of aid shall be half, two-thirds or three-quarters of the aid amount for full-time training. In the case of elephants travelling on four-year-old national lines, the Knowledge Charter provides for students to have both top-level sports and general study skills within the standard time for training - which is three years in the case of training programmes for sport. There are school owners who have chosen to extend a three-year training course over four years. Students taking a general education course with a three-year education of four years of age receive support according to the rules for part-time education, which do not have a full study burden on them. So they're going to pay 100 pst. support the first year, then 67 pst. the next three years. The question here concerns the possibility of opening up the possibility for the students to take three years of continuous training over four years with a full bus student. Changes in legislation in that area would have budgetary implications and would introduce a regulatory change. The code of support for full-time training/part-time training is common to all student and student groups, and I think it is reasonable that the size of the support is appropriate to adapt the study burden. Any change for the named group will also have to be seen as a special scheme which may be untimely compared to other groups of elephants and students who, for some reason, take part-time training, e.g. care of young children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1660	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The solution of top-level sports classes in secondary schools is very important to many practitioners. The sports laws that have students in the scheme also agree. In the sports classes at Molde High School, the students go four years instead of three, which I've been in on, and the time frame is, as I said, central in that context. It's important to get harmony between school, a lot of training, competition and the rest of your life. The time frame is the basic idea of the scheme, and the time frame allows the student to train several sessions during the day. In the voluntary communication, Freedom for All, it was a key message to better facilitate relationships, provide better framework conditions and improve cooperation between the public and voluntary sectors. Does the State Council believe that the new practice of the Loan Fund is consistent with the overall objectives of the combination of sport, talent development and education?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1671	I myself am particularly committed to giving young talent within various sports the opportunity to develop the talent, to train and work on it, while at the same time getting an ongoing education and study competence. It is also in line with the government's policy, which the representative rightly pointed out. At the same time, it is very important for us to treat the elephants in the same way as they follow a full-time course of study or a part-time course of study, regardless of what kind of education they take, and what kind of situation they are in. That's why we want to keep that code. So here's the school owner who decided that the race should be four years, not three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1676	As long as the top sports classes have existed, the vast majority have completed high school in four years. The argument is that the student has not had enough hours per person. school week. Students in peak sports classes have an average of 22 hours a week, and the training is not included in it. This goes across top sports classes as an idea, just that they're going to get a few hours a week to practice. This is neither consistent with the intention set out in the Soria Moria Declaration nor in the Voluntary Notice. I hope the Council of State will help to fix this, so that the gymnastics can still be a good offer for sports youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1681	We're very concerned about facilitating it. That is why we have many good offers of young talent in top sports around the country. The inter-political reform of the Knowledge Lift facilitates students to have both top-level sport and general study skills within a normal time for training, which is three years at sport level. It also has to be based on the amount of aid in my view, so I am not prepared to make any changes. I think the system we have today works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1689	I have this question for the Minister of Knowledge: «In today's economic life on 16 January, municipalities and county councils will be able to carry out their responsibilities as school owners to varying degrees. One of the success criteria presented for successful municipalities in this context is that there is a high level of awareness of pupils' learning outcomes at both political and administrative level. What will the Council of State contribute to strengthening this awareness - particularly at administrative level - in municipalities and county councils?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1698	According to the Training Act, municipalities and county councils are responsible for ensuring that the learning outcomes for students are defended and in line with the law, curriculum and other legislation. Municipalities and county councils must have the necessary academic competence and must have a defence system in their administration so that they can discharge that responsibility. Through national supervision in 2006 and 2007 and through the National Audit Office’s 2006 investigation, it is revealed that many municipalities and county councils do not have defence systems to comply with the law. The Education Directorate, together with KS, has recently created a guide for municipalities and municipalities to help them build up such systems. There have also been efforts to strengthen and target the supervision of municipalities and municipalities. State supervision is an important way of bringing municipalities and county councils under responsibility, raising awareness of the framework and outcomes of the school, and preventing violations of training laws. In 2006, the National Audit Office pointed out that central providers of training laws are supervised to a limited extent. I want to assess how we can further improve state supervision in the future. Municipalities and county councils are also required to follow up national quality assessments carried out by the Ministry. The national quality assessment system shall contribute to quality development at all levels of initial training with a view to adapting training and increasing learning outcomes for the individual student. In addition, the quality assessment system shall contribute to openness, transparency and dialogue on school activities. This shall also provide a basis for local assessment and development work through the organisation of evaluation and follow-up of results by the school owner and the schoolleader. In addition to State supervision, national tests and the ‘Schooleporten’ website are key elements of the quality assessment system. Through the system, governance provides a national mapping of learning outcomes, the learning environment and resources. If you want to create extra attention, local involvement and action, you need to make the results available. Data and results at local and national level are therefore visible at the ‘School port’. The school port has an open part with information that everyone has access to, and a closed part where municipalities and county municipalities can find information about e.g. the results of national tests at school level.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1709	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer, which goes into important areas, as I see it. Of course, national tests and the information that comes out there are important, but I want to focus on the first part of the Council of State's response, where he is concerned about how to have a competence that enables schools to meet the strong requirements they meet both nationally and locally. I see it as positive that the Council of State is prepared to strengthen supervision, because it is a fruitful way to go. I also believe in a very active dialogue with the Communes' Central Association as in the example of a guide. The reason why I'm taking this up is because I've seen for myself what it means for the city I've been elected to the Stortinget, to have a good school administration and to have politicians who have good and sharp debates about what you want with the school - in addition to what you want from this room. So I would just like to encourage the Council of State to also collect examples of municipalities that have done so on the basis that they have these good municipal and administrative systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1716	I can agree with the statement made by the representative. In addition to national tests, quality development and competences, supervision is important because it provides control and verification of whether a person around Norway actually does what the Stortinget has decided to do within the school area. Of course, the administration and competence of the individual municipality or county are central to the policy follow-up. We know that there are significant differences, and there are great weaknesses detected. That's why I'm busy working on this from national sources, but also, as the representative mentions, in dialogue with KS. Fortunately, we have a number of municipalities, which I have visited myself, which work very systematically and well with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1721	My supplementary question is basically whether the Council of State will take the initiative to systematise the experience of different municipalities that we have invested in has a competent, professionally strong school administration. There are different answers to this, and I can show that it means something. I deliberately chose one of the extremes, which is Oslo, but I know another extreme through my own visit to - and by following - e.g. Halden municipality, which decided to have one principal in common with other schools. Among other things, he chose: my party - but also other parties - to reintroduce something that had not been done for many years, namely an open debate in the local government on the content of the school. The open debate on school contents actually led to the conclusion that it was not a good thing to ensure a good school in the municipality, to have this one principal for all. So you accepted that this needs competence. I think there are many such examples in the municipality of Norway, from the very good ones, that the council itself has experienced, and to those I now mention. I would simply like to ask about the Council of States - in the dialogue he has and with all the tools he has - will gather some of the examples that can inspire. Then we can also leave the examples that do not inspire to rest in this round!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1730	I can also name municipalities such as Porsgrund, Skedsmo, Lørenskog, Tromsø and others who are very good at driving, and who are systematically developing the quality of their schools. I can confirm that I am going to take a closer look at what we are going to use nationally for, more systematically, giving advice, guidance, support in the right direction, and how we can ensure that municipalities with very good competence and systems can be directly contributors to other municipalities, in networks or in other ways, and how, for example, KS can play a role in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-30.ana.ud1816e1735	This means that the matter's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the floor in accordance with Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
