ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e22	The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Kirsti Saxi, has taken the seat. The representative, Mr Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e30	On behalf of Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I have the joy and honour of presenting a proposal for a stronger penal framework for gross criminality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e35	The representative, Per Sandberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e38	On behalf of the representatives Bård Hoksrud, Arne Sortevik and myself, I propose the possible implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e43	The representative, Olemic Thommess, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e46	On behalf of Gunnar Gundersen, Peter Skovholt Gitmark and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to investigate the principle of open television networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e51	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e76	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Erik Solheim Knut Storberget Trond Giske The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e95	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. On 14 January this year is going to be a brand day for a long time, and it will be marked with grief, not least because a Norwegian journalist was killed in Kabul. VG has run a series of articles yesterday and today, showing how central government members were staying, what they actually did during this attack, and I expect more than myself to ask questions about the seriousness of what seems to have happened within the government. Since the Minister of Defence is not here, while the Minister of Justice is here, my question will go to the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice has the operational responsibility for the bodyguards of Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre through the Police Security Service. What VG claims today is that while the Council of State's own team from the PST struggled with life in order to protect the Council of State's counterpart, Secretary of State Jonas Gahr Støre, the Council of State Storberget held on to something that I see as a clear private matter, namely taking a hunting test. The Council of State may consider it reasonable to make such a prioritisation. For the rest of us, this seems rather remarkable. My specific question to the Council of State will be as follows: does the Council of State see it as, for example, Morally sensible to make this kind of priority, that is, to keep up with private affairs while his own crew actually struggled with life as the effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e108	Let me first just explain a little of what happened on 14 January regarding my role in this. This was something that was notified to us early from Kabul, and the PST also received early notice of what was happening down there. On the basis of the information received in Norway, crisis losses were immediately reduced in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that it was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that actually managed the crisis. It was not suggested that I, as Minister of Justice, should be in the department in addition to the evening or the night; we did not see that as necessary. So with regard to the representative Ellingen's question, it's not like we suggested that I couldn't have private tasks during this day, despite what happened in Kabul. This applies, inter alia, to: my care obligations, in particular: the fact that I should also spend the evening at home. So it's true that during this evening I was taken to Giskehagen in Oslo, I think at 8 p.m. 20.55 in the evening, and did the theoretical hunting test - not shooting test that someone has well liked to present it as - in three blocks. So over the course of these three quarters, there was a crisis in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They had received ongoing information. The necessary clarifications were also taken in relation to my department and my responsibilities. It was actually not there and then as much as we could do to intervene in the situation in Kabul, and I was given ongoing information about this. I also participated - for the sake of order - in a debate the same evening in Editorial EN that had a different theme than that going on down in Kabul, without it having triggered reactions in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e120	I thank you for what I would like to call the State Council statement. I record that the Council of State does not respond to what I am actually asking. My question was simply whether the Council of State does not see any moral concerns in its own action repertoire. While his own crews actually struggled to safeguard the life and security of the Foreign Minister, the Council of State chooses to clearly prioritize private affairs, be it in Giskehagen or elsewhere. Of course, it's a priority that the Council of State is free to do, but I'm a little surprised that the Council of State does not show greater humility in relation to what kind of signal he actually sends out to others -- it's up to its own staff in the Ministry of Justice or, perhaps not least, to its own voters and the rest of the population, who actually expect when crises occur, any responsible state council does what is expected. I think a lot of people want to make headway to the kind of priority that's been done here. Then I ask the question again: is it such that the Council of State would do the same thing again if a similar situation arose?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e131	I don't see anything morally reprehensible in my actions during this day. I also did a number of private tasks after this hunting test was taken. I went home and took care of my closest friends, but I was still kept constantly informed about the situation, so that the necessary steps that had to be taken in relation to the crisis situation that arose were taken. I also believe that the reviews we have had of this situation do not show that there was anything in relation to the handling of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs there and then, in addition to what has emerged from the hearing of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which could have been done differently. It is for us who are in charge of the Departments, precisely to get ongoing information and just to ensure that the important clarifications to be made in such situations of crisis are made. I can't see that my movements this evening rocked by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e138	It's going to be follow-up questions-- Solvency Horne. The President will tell you that he wondered for a long time whether he was being marked so much by fire that he heard poorly, and has checked it out. To everyone who has heard equally bad: there is something wrong with the sound system where the queryer is standing. But we're trying to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e143	When I read VG yesterday, I thought it was an April joke. But when we read VG today, we see that it wasn't. With regard to the situation surrounding the terrorist action that was in Kabul, we have seen in the media in retrospect that it was very chaotic and unbridled. In such situations, full attention from political management is required. This is because such situations may require immediate measures to protect life and health for Norwegian citizens. Participation in a hunting course is very special to do in the Prime Minister's office. I want to repeat the representative Ellingen's question, because I feel that the Council of State has not actually answered that question. Doesn't the Council of State see the madness of participating in a hunting course at the Prime Minister's office, when you have such a situation as you had in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e152	If you think about it on January 14, we weren't at the Prime Minister's office, first of all. As I explained in the reply to the representative Ellingen, we gave a theoretical test related to the hunting course. For my part, it meant that I interrupted this course evening for, among other things. to take part in the NRK in a debate that was not about Kabul, and then went to take this test at 1 p.m. 20.55 instead of going home. And then I spent three quarters of an hour doing this test. I think I was home approx. 22 o'clock. I also mean to remember that I had one contact with the department after that. I stand by the fact that the arrangement that was laid down, in particular in relation to the responsible department that was to deal with this crisis, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was completely sound. And the information and movements we made in the Ministry of Justice were perfectly sound from the situation we were in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e160	No more people have asked for the word for follow-up questions. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e165	My question goes to the Minister of Culture. Again, we see that the Tibetans fight against a brutal overpowering force in all the media. Once again, we see that a suppressor that some of us might have pushed at a distance and perhaps forgot because it's been quiet about it for a while, is mobilized, and again we see that conversation and communication are replaced by violence and abuse. The media image is about the fight of the Tibetans, as we have known for many decades, but they're really just a picture of a larger battle that's about human rights, which is about how minorities are treated in one of the world's great superpowers, namely China, a power that has an economic impact, a political impact, and eventually also a military impact force that dramatically prevails on the international arena. The Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama has asked for dialogue, has asked for a meeting with the Chinese authorities and has been brutally rejected. Amnesty signals that the Olympic Games have contributed to a tightening of the use of power rather than the opening promised by the IOC, which is probably part of the IOC's contract. I noticed that IOC member Gerhard Heiberg, who is IOC's leading spokesman in Norway, says that the human rights situation in China has been improved in recent years. I have also noticed that he draws a little on how and to what extent he wants to deal with this with the Chinese authorities. Does the Council agree with Gerhard Heiberg's assessment that the human rights situation has improved in China?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e176	Let me first say that I share the view of the representative Thommes that the situation in Tibet is serious, that it is unacceptable for the Chinese authorities to use violence against their own people, that freedom of expression, religious freedom and minority rights must be respected, and that we also have a responsibility to contribute to this. This is not internal affairs in China, this is something that concerns us all, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working through its channels, among other things. at meetings with the Chinese ambassador to Norway, in order to clarify what Norway thinks about it. So I believe that civil society, the rest of society outside the government, can also contribute to good development in China. A major sporting event, perhaps the largest in the world, namely the Summer Olympics, organized in China, will bring floodlights to China, not only sporting, but also in the conditions of the country. I think we should use that opportunity to say what we expect of fundamental human rights in the world's most populous country. I believe the IOC must also make demands and make this clear to the Chinese authorities. I don't know in detail what communication is going on between IOC's management and Chinese authorities, but I feel confident that Gerhard Heiberg also shares the opinions we have about the situation in China. It's definitely about describing developments there in different ways. Something has improved: a lot of people have been promised out of material poverty. New technology - the Internet, mobile phones, etc. - make it more difficult for authorities to prevent information from outside. - In other areas it may have been worse. We must help China take responsibility for human rights, and use the opportunity of a summer Olympic to get that message clear to the Chinese authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e183	I thank you for your answer. Of course, I fully agree that we have to use the opportunity. The question is just how do we use it? What measures do we have? How can we, as the authority of our country, communicate an attitude in and separately from the sporty in this? Because that's an independent point -- I agree with the Council of State -- that sport here provides an opportunity. We now see in the international community that prominent politicians in many countries have at least two tracks in this contact. One is to systematically meet the Dalai Lama and encourage Chinese authorities to do the same. The other thing that has emerged from prominent politicians - at least in the Western world - is to abstain from the opening ceremony, as authority. I would like to ask whether the Council of State will help the Government to take initiatives internationally to coordinate this, so that we can emerge in a wider context than just Norway that can solitude in this - so to speak - power.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e192	I believe at least that it is important to distinguish between what we, as politicians and authority, and what we should oblige sportsmen to do: we should let sportsmen be sportsmen, and then we should be politicians. Of course, in relation to the situation in a regime, sports organisers themselves have a limit on where you can have a sports event, but it is sport itself, at the sports event, that decides whether to participate in the Olympics or not. It's not a big deal, it's not a government that decides. I believe that the question of whether we as political leaders, for example. to be absent from the opening ceremony, is very dependent on what kind of development we see in China and in Tibet especially in the time leading up to the OL. We have e.g. asked to send Norwegian diplomats into Tibet to identify what has actually happened there. How the Chinese authorities react to the pressure that is now on them from the international community, I think will also be crucial for how political leaders deal with the OL. So this we'll follow closely up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e201	There will be follow-up questions - first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e204	I agree with the Council of State that we should distinguish between sport and politics. At the same time, there is no doubt that the OL in Beijing has been used politically by Chinese authorities - as a form of acceptance in the international community of Chinese development in recent years. Indirectly, if you don't take up the challenges of democracy and human rights through sports organisations that we now see are actually increasing in China, you're setting a stamp of approval. I wonder if the Council of State intends to have some dialogue with the Norwegian sports movement on this, for one of the questions that comes up now, is whether it will be open to journalists throughout China as Chinese authorities define China, that is. that during this period there will be free access to Tibet for journalists. Will the Council of State take this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e211	We have already had a dialogue with the Sports Association and also with Gerhard Heiberg. This is that the press that's going there to cover the OL -- many thousands of journalists, maybe up to 30,000 -- also gets to write about other social conditions, get to travel in China and get to talk to people, has been an important requirement of the IOC, a requirement that we assume is adhered to. It is quite right, as the representative of Solberg describes it, that there is heavy prestige attached by China to this OL. It's kind of China's final entrance as a superstate in the world -- it's talking about 'The Perfect Games'. But we have to tell the Chinese authorities that there will be no perfect toys without at the same time becoming part of the international community also in terms of freedom of expression, human rights and minority rights. It's the real gateway to acceptance in the international community. It takes time to change a large country like China, but as far as we can, we should use the OL to contribute to that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e220	Morten Højlund - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e223	There has been a considerable pressure on China for many years, not least after they received the OL. For example, Norway has: a dialogue on human rights with China. Amnesty reports today that the human rights situation ahead of the Olympics seems to be worse than it has been for a long time. The government itself has said, according to the press, that he will address violations of human rights in China when he travels to the Olympics in Beijing. It's affordable. But does the Council of State think it will help this time - when this year-long dialogue has not produced the desired results? And does the Council of State realize that there may be other, more effective ways to push Chinese authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e230	I definitely believe that there are other measures, other dialogues and other work than the implementation of an OL that will ultimately contribute to China's development in the right direction. But we should also use the opportunity given by the incredible attention given by an OL to get a desired development. Norway has a human rights dialogue with China. There are many different areas of work, such as: through the discussion on developing a more independent judicial system in China, which, in our view, is a fundamental requirement in a modern, democratic state of law. If you look at China, I think you will clearly see moves in the negative direction. But in the last ten years, we have also seen a very positive development, among other things. in the material standard of living of millions of people and in technologies that provide opportunities for more information, and thus perhaps also the demands and development of a civil society, which can contribute to democratic development in China. OL is just a small step in that direction. We're going to use that opportunity, but of course it's completely different processes that will reach to the seventh and last.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e242	Hans Olav Syversen - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e245	The Council of State felt confident that Norway’s IOC member was fairly realistic about the situation in China. I'm not sure. In a debate last week, Gerhard Heiberg said that almost everyone in China has access to the Internet, and he seemed totally unaware of the censorship carried out by the Chinese authorities in that way. Now when Heiberg is confronted with Amnesty's report, he says he won't comment on it. He says he's going to China, and then he can get a different perspective on what's going on in the country. There is no doubt that the Chinese authorities will ensure that Heiberg gets a different perspective. I am actually quite concerned about the attitude of the Norwegian IOC member here. I would simply like to ask whether the Council of State will contribute to the fact that our member is realistic about the situation in China before he travels there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e252	Both the Government and other organisations can contribute to a realistic picture of both what is happening in China and how sport itself can contribute to its meetings with Chinese partners. I know that there are organisations working with human rights who have actually offered to brief the Norwegian Sports Federation, both leaders and participants, to the extent you want, on what kind of human rights problems you face. Now we're not going to oblige sportsmen to become politicians. They will be allowed to be as active as they themselves feel competent and committed to, but we will facilitate that information. Then, of course, we as the authorities must continue our human rights dialogue in all the political forums and contact meetings we have with the Chinese authorities. That is what we need to continue for a long time after the OL in China was held in August 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e259	Step Skei Grande - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e262	For me as a liberal, it's very difficult to relativize human rights, as if some are worth more than others, sail if there's people in this room who think you should do that. I do not share the opinion of the Council of State that there is a very positive development in China, sail if someone has increased their standard of living. According to NTB, the report published today by Amnesty states: ‘It is becoming increasingly clear that many of the abuses now taking place do not take place despite holding the OL but as a result of the OL.’ The Council of State has now said several times that one should use this occasion. I agree with the Council of State that sportsmen should not be required to have any meaning, but one must be able to impose sport as a political body to have an opinion. Is there any limit to the Council of State in the matter of assault, before he gives the sport any advice other than what he has apparently given today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e274	I think the record will show that I did not unilaterally say that development in China is good. What I said is that in some areas there is a negative development, and in other areas, among other things. by millions of people being promised out of poverty, this is a positive development. But it's going to take time, and we're going to work everything we can to contribute to a good development in China in terms of human rights, freedom of expression, religious freedom and minority rights. I believe that sport also has a responsibility. They have a responsibility because they participate in an OL. They have a responsibility because they're a social organization. But we must distinguish between the responsibilities that we politicians have and the responsibilities that we impose on sportsmen. In my meetings with sports leaders in Norway, I experience a genuine interest in and commitment to human rights in China, and that they see that they have a responsibility to communicate this in the meetings they have with people, organisations and authorities from China. Of course, we will continue to advise sports that they express this where they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e283	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e286	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. Finally, we see the results of the removal of slot machines. Studies show a sharp decrease in the number of game dependants asking for help. The removal of slot machines is an honor. After the machines have been removed, 90 pst. by those offering treatment to game-dependent people, the number of people who have made contact has declined. Many families breathe easily and pay off their debts. But if the government follows its plan, Norwegian Typing will soon place out new slot machines, and many fears that the need for help will increase. Individuals have had their lives ruined because they have become game addicts. Children have experienced that their father or mother has played out the money that should have gone to clothes and food. The Christian People's Party has long fought for the addicts. Income for voluntary teams and organisations must be secured in a different way than by slot machines. The newspaper wrote on the tenure 25 February of this year: ‘To us, social democrats and non-profit organisations continue to take advantage of the gambling addicts is a mystery. Guess you had the opportunity to do the right thing: ban the vending machines to stop the social accidents the gangits create.’ New machines are not a popular requirement, on the contrary. My question to the state council is: will the state council continue to give the game-dependent game-free and stop the deployment of new vending machines, thus giving a permanent freedom from vending machines, instead of experimenting and believing that the new vending machines do not lead to as many game-dependent ones as the old ones? Would a little bit be experimenting with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e302	The reality description of the representative Molvær Grimstad is absolutely correct. The government’s cleaning up the slot machine market has made life easier for thousands of people and families in Norway. When we introduced a total ban on the old slot machines, they were removed from shops, kiosks and gas stations across the country. Finally, we got rid of the problems we saw in society. In my view, action should have been taken a long time earlier. For me, it is absolutely incomprehensible that the previous government set up from 2001 to 2005 without implementing a single measure that could limit the dramatic development of gambling addiction. We set up a night lock. We imposed a ban on banknotes on these machines, even before we finally got into the legal case that gave us the opportunity to remove all the slot machines. Many thousands of people could have been easier had the previous government intervened earlier. Now we've cleaned this up. Then it's wrong what Dagbladet wrote about is that we're going to look at the addicts, because there's not going to be a single game in Norway, either at the new game terminals or in other contexts, that creates such gambling addiction problems as the old machines did. The games of the future, which we are going to have - we are going to have responsible games in Norway - are to be controlled by the Lottery Authority, are to be monitored by the Lottery Authority and, in addition, monitored through the Play addicts Guide, so that we know all the games that may cause problems, so that we can change or remove those games as quickly as possible. By having control of this through Norwegian Typing, we can overnight eliminate games that create addiction, if we see it. But the aim is that no game should create that kind of addiction in the future, and that is what we need to ensure through a good public game policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e311	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but it is with respect to report wrong that the Christian People's Party in the government last did nothing to combat the game problem. The Christian People's Party was involved in taking offensive action. We started a work to limit gambling dependence. We didn't really get to the goal. At the same time, we saw that gambling addiction increases dramatically, and we've kind of taken in the knowledge we've gained. We have also adjusted the course here on Stortinget and have several proposals, including: on the prohibition of automatic data-processing machines. That's what the state council said no. Then we propose that at least the municipalities be allowed to decide for themselves. That's what the state council said no. When it comes to the measures being taken, both seat bans and other measures, the Christian People's Party was in opposition to push on the state councils to bring about changes in the automatic market as quickly as possible, based on the dramatic increase it was in gambling dependence. But regardless of whether the government will listen to the experiences of those who depend on the game, they will have new automates out. What would this lead to?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e316	I think reality speaks for itself. When the Bondevik II government joined in 2001, Norway spent $8 billion on vending machines in Norway. When it went off in September 2005, Norway played for 28 billion kroner a year on vending machines -- three times as much as the entire Norwegian Typing turnover combined. Today, people in Norway are playing for zero dollars on vending machines, so I think reality describes how and when it was captured. In addition, in 2003 a new regulation for future slot machines was adopted under the previous government. You had to keep the old one-armed bandit games, but you had to increase the distance from every two and a half seconds to every three seconds. It was the cleanup you stood for that time. Now we've banned the one-armed bandit games. It should not be a single machine, a single game terminal in Norway that has the type of game. That's what I call a little more offensive cleanup than the one you stood for in the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e322	There will be follow-up questions - first Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e325	Where did the automatic money come from? On March 3, the Nations writes at its command: ‘That a government that says it will fight poverty and escalate the efforts of the psychiatry, while reintroducing slot machines and related gambling madness, is the happy madness. It is people from the lowest economic strata who are most vulnerable to this kind of addiction. That is why the concept of a poor man's tax on the money that the government has committed to gambling is entirely comprehensive." My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree that the money from the slot machines is a poor man's tax, and will the Council of State ensure that volunteering is strengthened in ways other than at the expense of the weakest in our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e335	I think action has been better answered than words. From last year we banned all the old slot machines in Norway. We also clearly informed the Lottery Authority, which is to approve future games in Norway, that we will not revisit the type of games that create such gambling addiction problems, among other things. We will always ban barred bandit games with these rotating wheels, as opposed to what the previous government had stated in the legislation. But then I would like to say that we must not begin to present everyone who plays games in Norway, like people with gambling addiction problems. What gives the most money to volunteer in Norway - sport, culture, sports facilities around - is Lotto. And it is quite right that surveys show that low-income groups play more Lotto than high-income groups; low-skilled play more than highly educated. But to present this as a weak group that is exposed to a social problem, I think it's a completely wrong description. I think a lot of people enjoy it, and we're going to keep the kind of responsible game that gives people the opportunity to play, and that gives them income for volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e342	Olemic Thommessen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e345	I feel the initial need to remind the Council of State that we were through quite demanding legal rounds during the time that the previous government set, leaving the necessary prerequisites for the Council of State to implement its policy today. We were all about that line -- also the Council of State, when he was in opposition. In any case, volunteering is the main goal of the income we're talking about. Voluntaryness is local. I think it's very important that the local anchoring is strong, and that the municipalities engage in volunteering. That's why I think the possibility of municipal reservation for these games could be a good idea, and that's why we've suggested it before. Of course, if the municipalities make a reservation, they would also have to get up with other steps in relation to their volunteering. So you would get a stronger local commitment, you would take care of local self-government, and you would strengthen the right of self-determination in the municipalities. Will the Council of State not take a closer and longer look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e352	No, I think we need strict national legislation in relation to games. I believe that none of Norway's 430 municipalities should have the opportunity to allow games that create new, major gambling addiction problems. It shall be prohibited in all the municipalities of the country. And I just refer to the representative Thommes himself talking about -- big, legal processes. Here, there is a group of billions of out-of-world convictions that pushes Norway’s legislation into years of legal proceedings. If instead of Norway taking the legal cases, 430 municipalities are going to start taking those legal cases, I think we are going to have insurmountable problems. But then I fully agree that the municipalities in Norway - and also the state - can do even more for volunteering. Through the voluntary service, we now provide NOK 1 billion more a year for Norwegian sport and culture. This will make many, many thousands of fires in Norway easier to deal with, and it will maintain the enormous effort that is made. But starting to ban games that are responsible, that at the same time give money to volunteer, will make everyday life for these much, much heavier.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e359	Karin S. Woldseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e362	There's a different reality than the one the Council of State refers to. Now, in 2008, it's been nine months since they banned vending machines. Now all crews, choirs and sports teams in Norway are also aware of the loss of automated income. Some sports teams I've talked to in Bergen and around the country lose over 1 million. kr in income per year. There must be incredibly large piles of waffles and many flea markets to get into this income. It goes without saying that you have to reduce the operation. So this affects children and young people, it affects people with mental retardation who get an offer of sports. Can the Council of State assure the hundreds of thousands within its corps, choirs and sports teams that they will be able to maintain operations in 2008 at the same level as in 2007? And what will happen in 2009? When do the incomes of grassroots come from the vending machines to Norwegian Typing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e369	That's exactly the volunteer billion we're talking about - an extra $1 billion for volunteering, among other things. to compensate for the loss of automatic receipts that many teams locally experience as heavy, as the representative Woldseth describes quite correctly. The sport, as she takes as an example, will get over 400 million. kr more in the year following the implementation of that reform. We're also introducing something called the grass root fraction, where each player with cards on Norwegian Typing can decide that 5 pst. the effort may be made to a local team, a sports team, a choir or a corps or any other organisation which they decide. It'll give up to 400 million. kr directly to grassroots in Norwegian voluntarity. Unfortunately, there was an overall opposition, including the Progress Party, to that grass root fraction. But fortunately, the majority of the government parties decided that it would be put in place. Then millions of dollars will go straight into the accounts of the fire-smelters - the local team leaders, the trainers, the executives, the conductors - who run Norway's volunteer work every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e376	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e379	I have a question for the State Council, Solheim. Jens Stoltenberg wanted to build gas power plants without cleaning on Kårstø so much that he made a government to get them to. The reason was that one desperately needed the power to be produced at this gas power plant. Now we know that for long periods the gas power plant is not able to produce at the price the market is willing to pay. In this situation, the Government has granted free allowances far beyond what is needed at this gas power plant, by what now appears to be normal operation. So we have a gas power plant that has full coverage with free allowances, plus allowances allocated by the state that they can sell in the market for up to 150 million. kr per year. The left is to use the allowance system. But we're also to use common sense. That is not what has been used when giving such large and liberal schemes for State power and StatoilHydro, while one in the quota system has suggested that new activities should not receive free allowances. The scheme that the Government has gone into, it is making the quota system miserable, it is helping to undermine climate policy. Therefore, my question to the Council of State: In the light of the experience that you are now reaping, does he agree that it is unreasonable to allocate free allowances to the gas power plant on Kårstø to such an extent? And in the light of the experience that has now been gained, is he willing to reconsider this part of the quota system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e389	Since the representative started with a polemics against my boss - as it is always a pleasure to defend - I must only be allowed to say that if it was the case that Jens Stoltenberg placed a government in order to be allowed to build a gas power plant, the left was willing to continue the expansion of Kårstø in order to be allowed to sit in government. The only parties that have been clear and consistent with Kårstø all the way are SV and - as far as I know - the Center Party. But now leave that polemic, let's look forward. The basic feature of the quota system is that there should be an incentive to reduce pollution. I don't think we in that incentive can drive into examining hearts and kidneys and motives of those who reduce. If you were to get a quota system that was such that it was an incentive to drive for money, we would get the exact opposite of what we want. It makes sense that there is a clear incentive not to release pollution, and it lies in the quota system. That is why we have the effect on Kårstø that the representative is drawing up. In addition, let me say that the government last Friday sent our allowance scheme to ESA. We will now engage in dialogue with ESA on this quota system, including the quota reserve, and will then, through that dialogue, be made clear whether this is a system that ESA will accept as practicable. Kårstø has not yet been allocated any allowances, but of course it may be in the extension of the built-up systems that they will have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e398	Last time State Council Solheim was in the Question Time, he had a warm defense that Norwegian companies actively participated in Sellafield to facilitate the reopening of the Thorp plant. Today he has a hot defense for a system that grants the gas power plant at Kårstø free allowances far beyond what they need, so that they can sell and make a lot of money on this. I'm wondering a little bit about what's going on to lure out the old instincts and the old points of view of Solheim and his party SV-- but we'll have to take that on another occasion. What's my main question here is: doesn't one see that one adds up to allocate allowances to an extent that goes beyond what this facility needs in normal operation - so that one actually makes these free allowances into a good store? I cannot understand that the Council of State can see that it is in accordance with the polluter-pays principle, especially in a situation where new businesses do not receive free allowances. My question is why a wish to deviate from the polluter-pays principle in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e405	We in Norway have allocated less free allowances than the EU. It could be some of the things that could make it difficult to approve our arrangement in relation to ESA. But whether a holding has received a free quota or a paid quota, there must be an incentive to reduce pollution, that is what is in the current system. Since the representative asks for the socialist in me, I am happy to let him come out freely. I think we need the quota system, I think we need the market-based solutions. But we also need much more regulation in environmental policy. It's e.g. regulation of the Norwegian oil industry that has produced as environmentally friendly an oil industry as we have. I traveled to California and thought that in Europe we believed in regulation and those on the market, and came back with the clear idea from the United States that without clear and strong regulation of the industry, the new technological solutions are not being developed. The market is good at doing what's cheapest first. We're going to do that too, but it's regulation that drives the new solar energy, wind power, bioenergy, and everything else we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e412	There will be follow-up questions - Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e415	I would like to ask the question that Gunnar Kvassheim did not get. In the previous Question Time, we experienced that the Council of State was standing here defending the use of Norwegian ownership and Norwegian companies with large state ownership to enter and secure the reopening of Sellafield. Today, the Council of State is excited to explain to us why we need a free quota system, which we see that our gas power plants are using. I realize then that the Council of State says that there is no point in spending time examining the individual participant's heart and kidneys in relation to those involved in finding motivation. I wonder, what is the motivation of the Council of State? When does the old SV really come out, when we see that you still have to stand away and defend the grip that can't possibly be in line with the old SV policy, and for which you can't possibly stand and fight, as we see the Council of State doing in question time after question time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e424	Let's be clear: I'm not a member of the distribution of free allowances. I want us to have as few free allowances as possible. Therefore, Norway has substantially fewer free allowances than the EU has. I have repeatedly answered questions from the Progress Party here in the Questionnaire on the fact that Norway is a strong driver that we should not have free allowances at all in 2012; everything should be paid allowances. But I'm a member of the quota system. The nice thing about the quota system is that you get the cheap, fast CO2 clean-up first. It's important. That's also why we need a global quota system that includes the United States and others, not just a European quota system. In addition, we need more regulation, because the quota system will drive money towards the cheapest and fastest solutions, while regulation will ensure the high-tech solutions. Regulations of the world's most advanced markets - Norway, Japan, California and Germany - will drive the new technology. So we have to have both a market-based system and a regulatory system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e434	Ketil Solvik-Olsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e437	It is a bit interesting to experience the Council of State in this matter. Eleven years ago, SV was the only party opposed to climate quota trading as part of the Kyoto system. This is where the Council of State stands and defends this thoroughly. In 1997, the state council was out in the newspaper, or Arbeiderbladet as it was then called, and said that he would link himself firmly to the gas power plant on Kårstø if it was realized. Fortunately, the Council of State has shown good judgment and has not done what he promised, unlike its Secretary of State, who has repeatedly shown civil disobedience. The entire climate quota law, as this is all about, was rushed through the Storting last year. There was little time for consultation with industry and little time for treatment in Stortinget. Obviously, there have been many gaps in the law. It is unfortunate that gas power plants are allocated allowances that they can sell when they shut down, while other new industries are not allocated allowances at all. This is a distortion of competition that destroys Norwegian jobs and Norwegian business. Will the State Council review the Climate Change Act and ensure that new industry in Norway has competitive conditions in line with the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e446	On the last very specific question: we have sent our views to ESA, which we believe is in line with the principles on which the EU is based and which should be endorsed by ESA. We are in an oral dialogue with ESA and will await their response. On the basis of that response, we will consider whether adjustments to a system that we consider to be good may be necessary, and a system that is initially more environmentally friendly with fewer free allowances than the EU has. With regard to this little fine thing about SV's scepticism into the quota system early in the 1990s, I just think we should admit this childhood sin. Fortunately, it was fixed before we arrived in youth. The problem of the Progress Party is that they have not yet corrected their sins in this area in their old age, as a mature party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e453	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e456	It's good that some of us are still young, so we'll see where the way forward. The Council of State is very committed to this matter. But it was the government's own boss that approved the gas power plant on Kårstø without sewage treatment plants. If the Council of State doesn't remember it, both the Left and the Christian People's Party went out of government because we didn't want to erode the pollution law. SV has now been in the government offices for three years, and there has been no positive environmental impact for Kårstø. There has also been a deterioration, because the government is now distributing free allowances. This is a responsibility that the Council of State cannot waive. My question is: why does the Council of State subsidize emissions from Kårstø and other gas power stations with free allowances when, in today's Question Time, he admits that he is in principle opposed to free allowances?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e466	Now I feel that I have answered that question several times, so let me focus on what is the most important question at Kårstø, and that relates to the question of whether nothing has happened significantly during this government. Something quite fundamental has happened during this government, namely that the issue of CO2 capture and storage has come up. And that's the basic answer. Kårstø was adopted earlier, the Bondevik government continued the project. SV has been against it all along, but it says, as Snow White says there -- we were against it too. Everyone understands that it is not just traveling away and twisting the key and closing those projects. Then we have to see what we're doing with them, and the basic answer to that is CO2 capture and storage. That's why we're doing it in Mongstad, and that's why we've brought this into Kårstø. We now have two Norwegian environments, StatoilHydro and Aker, which are researching it - and these must be integrated into the wider European context together with the EU, must join with the United States. But the basic answer to the problems we have both on Kårstø and Mongstad and other projects that we've been skeptical about is to capture CO2, store it and put it under the seabed. Then we also contribute to mankind's common answer to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e482	Peter Skovholt Gitmark - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e485	I agree with the Council of State that the very central issue is CO2 capture and storage. If we are to achieve our objectives in relation to the climate challenges and fight global warming, we need precisely technology in the field of CO2 capture and storage. It is a pity, therefore, that the Government places so much prestige in the schedule and implementation phase itself, especially at Kårstø. The most important thing about Norwegian CO2 capture and storage is not what we do on Kårstø, but the possibility of exporting technology out of Norway, and therefore also cost-effective, to countries that do not have our wealth. So my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State not see that the Government's own timetable is hampering the development of Norwegian technology that will make CO2 capture and storage cost-effective, and thus that it can be used abroad as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e504	No, I can't see that the schedule makes it difficult. There are a number of technological issues related to CO2 capture and storage that we need to tackle. What we as environmental authorities must first and foremost address is the global regulatory framework that is needed. There are still many countries in the world that do not accept CO2 capture and storage, because they feel unsafe with the system. Norway is the only country where we have done this. It works, and that's why there's a great international interest in it. We need global guidelines on the safety of CO2 capture and storage. We can start with national rules; the EU can make rules, but we need global guidelines to do so. And then to the second fundamental question: the price of this technology has to go down. It doesn't make sense to clean Mongstad and Kårstø through CO2 capture and storage as such, as expensive as it is now. But if by subsidising this, we can contribute to this from being a potential niche technology for the world's richest to a standard commercial technology for the whole world, it is probably the most important Norwegian contribution whatsoever to reducing climate change emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e523	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e526	I will also ask the Minister for the Environment and Development a question. In the Passover, it turned out to be 150 million. aid crowns for Tanzania are most likely to have disappeared. This is so-called budgetary support. Norwegian control, as I understand it, is based on the fact that the recipient country itself is responsible for the control. It is, to the extent that it is an interesting variant for the control of Norwegian tax money, but leave it at this point. According to ABC News on 27 March, the Minister for the Environment and Development admits that Norway has been naive. Yes, the Council of State is right that someone has been naive. But there has been no lack of warnings, and this scandal, in our view, should not come as a surprise. Denmark has decided to cut its aid to Tanzania as a result of a lack of political will to fight corruption. A representative of the Norwegian Embassy in Tanzania states that Norway prefers dialogue rather than both carrot and whip. Dialogue is good, but at what price? And now when the Council of State admits naivety, I'd like to ask if Norway will choose to be a little less naive and follow Denmark's example and cut the aid to Tanzania. Or does the Council of State feel that it is still possible to resolve this with more dialogue?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e537	The conclusion as to whether we should cut or transform the assistance to Tanzania on the basis of this is that we will make a more thorough assessment of this matter and other matters. The Prime Minister and I are also going to Tanzania in two-three weeks, and we will then have the opportunity to discuss this with President Kikwete and other actors. That being said, the main reason why I went into anti-corruption work when I became Minister for Development was quite different from what it used to be, is that I consider this to be a much bigger development problem than you have until now recognised. For this reason, Norway was hosting an international conference on illegal capital movements, such as the United Kingdom, yesterday. is money leaving developing countries and entering the many financial centres, tax havens, where this money is completely out of control. For many developing countries, we know that more money goes out in the form of corruption and illegal capital flows than what comes into the form of aid. That is why we need to use the assistance to better put anti-corruption work on the agenda and help countries to do so, by supporting national audits, ecocrims, etc. So it might sound absurd, but what's kind of positive in the situation that's now coming up is, of course, the seventh and last thing that's a sign that something works. There's no reason to believe that corruption in Tanzania is greater than what it was. But for the first time in Africa -- I think -- a prime minister in a country has been assigned to open-screen TV -- all the country's inhabitants could see it -- and the governor has had to go because of major national corruption scandals. The Norwegian aid case is small in this context. But it asks a number of questions to our system and our device about how to do it better. I could possibly come back to it in answer to a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e546	I thank you for your answer. What about all the assistance that has been given for many years? However, I choose to use the follow-up question to raise this a little bit to a more general level: it's a great giver among the Norwegian people. That's what all polls show. That's broad support. However, I believe that the recipients of Norwegian assistance are beginning to be frustrated. Then I think about the population. A recent Fafo study showed that 63 pst. by the Palestinian population, it considers that the assistance received by their authorities promotes corruption and that it does little to combat poverty. The aid that disappears in Africa, whether it's in Tanzania or elsewhere, because of corruption or fraud, does no good, and these are serious issues. Is not the Council of State concerned about the devastating effect - I will go as far - that Norwegian and international aid has on many societies?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e553	I think we have to admit that in countries with major corruption problems there are no anti-corruption zones. There is a great risk of corruption for non-governmental organisations, for state aid, for business in almost all areas. Having a guard against corruption is absolutely central. Now it's almost a one-to-one relationship between the rich country of the world and the uncorrupt country of the world. It's not quite one-to-one, but all the countries in the world that score the highest in corruption are also the poorest in the world. I think here's why both ways. They're poor because they have a significant corruption problem. But what is of course much more important is that they have a significant corruption problem because of poverty. For example, the questions we have to ask about our own system are:: How is it possible that an internationally recognised audit firm, one of the world's three-four largest, could stamp approval year after year on a project funded by Norway in Tanzania, where, in retrospect, it turned out to be such an irregular situation? Should we go in with other companies? Does it say anything about that company? Does it say anything about the systems? How can we get our money back?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e560	There will be follow-up questions - first Øyvind Waksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e563	The scandal of misuse of Norwegian aid in Tanzania is riveting into a wide range of aid scandals that have been revealed in recent years. When we heard last fall about tsunamillions on the way and hundreds of millions spent on AIDS medicine without any effect, we heard a government council that was going to tighten up both routines and control functions. Now we hear the same thing again, and it's probably done nothing but talk this time either. On the part of the Progress Party, we have warned against this uncritical use of aid funds over a number of years - unfortunately not to be heard. According to the magazine Aid Current, the Norwegian Embassy now defends the general budget support and even claims that Tanzania is sufficiently stable to avoid the need for requirements such as graduated mechanisms. Does the Minister for Development agree with the embassy, or will he now take the steps that most people see as necessary, and make considerably more stringent demands on the beneficiaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e573	Yes, we will make clearer demands on assistance, and we need to go into more detail and see if the audit systems we have used have been good enough, and whether the control systems are good enough. The starting point of any such case is that, if possible, the money will be refunded if they have been misused. But, with respect to reporting, that Norway is just talking in this area, the closest thing it is possible to hesitate in the Storting. Three weeks ago, I met the World Bank Director, Bob Zoelick, in Reykjavik. The theme was what we can do together - the World Bank and Norway - to put the large international capital flows that are illegal on the agenda. Yesterday we had an international meeting in front of the so-called Doha negotiations, on financing aid - again to put corruption, tax havens and illegal capital flows on the agenda. In our dialogue with Tanzania, this is quite clear, and it is a clear view of everyone in the Dar-es-Salaam aid environment that Norway is the clear, strong and tough driving force for clear responses to any form of abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e580	The President would point out that 'doubt' is not a parliamentary expression, even when you're just approaching it. Dagfinn Højbråten - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e585	I shall approach the heart of the matter! With the enormous poverty and environmental problems we face in the world's poor country, we simply cannot afford to waste money. Norway’s position must therefore be clear: abuse of aid is unacceptable, and control must be good enough. I have great respect for Solheim's knowledge of history, but his history in the fight against corruption in Norwegian aid is deficient -- to say it carefully. Measures to develop good governance, action against corruption, enhanced evaluation and detailed audit have been put in place as reinforced actions also under the auspices of Solheim. What we see here is that evaluation and audit have been able to detect the misuse of funds, and the researcher who has reviewed Norad's handling of the matter concludes that the embassy has taken the problems that have been discovered seriously, and made a number of good, concrete proposals to avoid similar problems in the future, in the new programme. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he does not agree that this matter actually shows that we have good control, but that it can certainly be improved as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e596	Yeah, it's just showing it. It was also my initial comment that there is a significant corruption problem in Tanzania. There's no reason to believe that it's increasing, but the fact that this comes up is evidence that a lot of things work. At the same time, I'm terrified of minimizing the problems of corruption. They're gigantic in the world, and that's maybe the main question we have to give the Norwegian population a constant answer to. Amazingly many people come to me -- I'm sure also to Dagfinn Højbräten -- and say, "Great that we're contributing internationally, great that we're making an effort in Africa. But: How can I be sure that my money doesn’t go in the pocket of corrupt dictators? That answer has to be given constantly, and the questions we have to ask ourselves, for example. in this Tanzania case, the question of the audit. Was it good enough? Were the correct tasks assigned to the audit firm? Or then the audit firm did this as a matter they didn't have to take seriously? We have to look at our routines. The embassy has done a formidable job of cleaning up and getting this on the table. Yet, how could it go on year after year without enough intervention?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e605	Find Martin Vallersnes - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e608	This programme went over 12 years, with a high degree of recipient ownership. In addition, Tanzania receives substantial funds through budget support, a total of about half. 483 million. kr in year. Recipient-driven assistance systems require a high level of trust and transparency between donor and recipient. It has been affected here. But it's naive to think that's enough. In the budget proposal for this year, the Ministry writes the following: ‘Norwegian support for Tanzania is based on the country’s national poverty strategy through budgetary support complemented by support for financial management and anti-corruption, good governance, natural resource management and energy.’ But we have to admit that it hasn't been that far. On the basis of this case, the right-wing party expects the revised budget this year to set out in concrete terms how the criteria for such management are designed, how they are implemented and how the ministry plans improved control and follow-up. Can the Council of State guarantee such an explanation to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e622	I would like to give the Storting such an explanation. I'm going to see if we can get it done in the revised, or in another way. A number of these have been made public. We've created a central control unit in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for anti-corruption that didn't exist before. We've created an external service alert system and others, linked to G-Partner, an independent agency. We've taken a number of steps to get better control of this and a reinforced fight against corruption. But let me remind you a little bit about the extension of what Dagfinn Højbråten said, also about what are the realities. The state budget in Tanzania is $40 billion - in a country with $40 million. residents. In Norway, the state budget is DKK 800 billion - in a country with 4 million. residents. If we compare this, that means that Norway has two hundred times the state budget per year. builds up like what Tanzania has. We must not forget that background either when we go into the fight against corruption and help Tanzania with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e631	Anne Margrethe Larsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e634	Corruption is undoubtedly one of the major development problems, as we have now seen in Tanzania and in many other developing countries. I believe that this must be a major theme of our aid dialogue with Tanzania, as the Council of State has mentioned, and that it requires the Tanzanian authorities to clean this up very quickly. Furthermore, Norwegian assistance needs to be assessed in the light of this. As the Council of State was in its first reply to the representative, Höglund: if you can see anything positive in what has happened in Tanzania, it must be that Parliament has played an active role in exposing this corruption and that it has done so with a great deal of transparency. This is an important factor, and it goes on good governance. Does the Minister for Development agree that this is an important part of this matter? And in that case, what can we learn from this in the design of the Norwegian anti-corruption policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e643	There are two elements of our anti-corruption policy. One is an absolute focus on doing what we can in our own systems to reduce the risk of corruption in all things we give, whether it's non-governmental organisations or the state. The second and much larger question that the representative raises is, of course, what do we do to help countries fight against corruption? Then I think the most basic simple answer is the construction of strong institutions: it's the construction of a national audit that's really independent and not in practice run by the president -- now I'm not talking about Tanzania, but generally. It's the construction of an ecocrime or similar institution; many of these now work very effectively in Africa, and it brings in heavy amounts. It is the construction of a civil society, of organisations like Transparency International or others. It is to get countries to commit to the so-called EITI principles of transparency. And that's to provide assistance to build media that puts a spotlight on corruption. It is the construction of these institutions that will work over time. They have worked here, they are guarantees against corruption reduction in our part of the world, and they will also work over time in African countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e650	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e656	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 3, from the representative Anders Anundsen to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative of Vera Lysklött to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e669	The size comes back to question 1, then the questioner, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, is not present in the hall at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e692	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e705	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e711	‘A report on the disappearance of fuel was prepared by the Justervesenet in 2007. The report makes it visible that large quantities of fuel are lost annually on the road from the refinery until the refuelling takes place at each petrol dealer. This means that there are large quantities of fuels that you do not know where they have gone and that can pose an environmental hazard every year. Will the Council of State take an initiative to take action to find out how much fuel becomes available and what measures can be taken to reduce emissions/disappear?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e718	It was recently small that I found the excellent papers I received from my good office in the Ministry of the Environment. The report from Adjustervesen points to various causes of waste problems in fuel sales. It is assumed that measurement errors may be one of several reasons why deviations have been reported between the quantity of fuel received and the quantity of fuel sold. It is also noted that the reduction of tare weight caused by temperature changes and theft, e.g. in the form of incomplete emptying of a tanker may be possible reasons. So you just don't know the exact reason. It could be one, several, or a combination of these different factors. Nor can it be excluded that some of the fuel comes into the wild by evaporation during storage and sale and leakage during storage. Evaporation of petrol results in emissions of volatile organic compounds, VOC, which contribute to the formation of ground-level ozone. Some of the substances in petrol vapour, such as benzene and aromatics, are carcinogenic. Of these, benzene is the most dangerous. In line with existing EU legislation, Norway has made requirements for the evaporation of petrol distribution from refineries to points of sale and has made demands on the benzene content of petrol. As part of the clean-up work on contaminated land, the State Pollution Control Agency (SFT) will launch a mapping work during 2008 to calculate emissions from the tanks and down to the ground, both for existing and closed gas stations. Work is expected to be completed during 2009-2010. The actions to be implemented need to be assessed in the light of this monitoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e729	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It has been estimated that as much as 23,000 million litres may disappear annually. It has a huge impact on those who run gas stations, because it's the ones who get the tax bill right in jail. For a petrol dealer, this may be up to 150000 kroner on average. There is a lot of money that is just pure expenses for the individual petrol dealer. I think it is good that the Council of State says that the SFT will now come back to this, but I hope that he can be a little clearer and clearer. The Adjuster's report mentions a number of things that you should go further and look at. Maybe you could use some of the 150-300 million. kr that the State takes in from the petrol dealers, which the petrol dealers never see. I would also like to challenge the Council of State whether he can be a little more specific. Can he think a little bit about using some of these means to reduce emissions, and of course look at the possibility of doing it a little bit better for the gas dealers financially?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e738	I just have to say that I am pleased that the representative Hoksrud has asked this question, because I was not aware of this problem until the question was asked here. As it turns out, it's potentially, in any case, very hard gas quantities, and so also crown values that go into play. It is more difficult to know what action to take when the reason is not known. There will be a fundamental difference between theft and evaporation, for example. But we should take this as an incentive to go deeper into matter and look more into it, and therefore also consider what measures can be taken. With regard to the tax and tax issues, it is clear that this is difficult. Based on the interests of a petrol dealer, there could be advantages in getting this directly on itself, but it will also mean greater problems both for the individual and for the state, in the form of increased bureaucracy and more paper fields, than when there are a few instances from which it is driven.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e747	I also think it is very good that the Council of State is now meeting this. For me, it's about that it's an important environmental issue. So how many million gallons of fuel is that? What are the consequences for the local environment, the environment around gas stations, and not least where this disappears? I think it's important to put pressure on this and start looking at it in order to find the solutions. I also want to challenge this with the economic problem, and hope that the Council of State will bring it back to the party colleague Finance Minister. We know that for some other products, it's a system where you can prove that you don't get to sell the products, get reduced fees and get a refund for the fees. I hope that the Council of State will take this along, because it is a great burden for many petrol dealers, for which there is a big problem. 150 000 kroner on the bottom line is a lot of money, and it has great consequences for many who are currently struggling with small margins. We know that this is an area where there are small margins for the individual petrol dealer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e754	We are definitely going to take the Hoksrud representative's view on this further. With regard to the basic problem itself, it will also be interesting - as an amateur sees it - to look at what other countries have done in this area, because it is very difficult to believe that this disappearance is a strange problem. It will be interesting to see if there are studies in other countries on the same problem. In this case, they can certainly give indications of what is the cause of the problem in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e761	We then go back to question No. 1 from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e767	‘Assignment of pre-defined areas, TFO, is important for exploiting small fields in more mature areas. It contributes to the good use of existing infrastructure capacity and is particularly important for small and new companies on a Norwegian base. The government has usually published TFO at the very beginning of the year, which has given the oil industry a predictability that they are highly dependent on. Now this is delayed, which gives the industry time pressure in their work on the application process. When will the OED announce the TFO 2008?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e774	I share the views of the representative Solvik-Olsen on the importance of good use of resources on the base. It is precisely the idea behind the scheme Allocation in predefined areas, TFO, which is an important instrument of exploration and concession policy. The TFO scheme was introduced in 2003, when exploration activities were low and falling. The aim of the scheme was to stimulate further exploration, making it possible to exploit small findings in mature areas of the base. In particular, the TFO has proved to be important to provide opportunities and predictability for the new small operators on the base. The TFO scheme has resulted in many new allocations in areas where extraction permits have already been granted. This is the area previously returned to the country without all the possibilities thus being exhausted and where other actors can see new opportunities. The TFO system is therefore an important tool for providing the returned areas to new stakeholders. This is important for the good and efficient use of national resources and existing infrastructure. The results of previous TFO allocations are increased search activities for small resources, which together make an important contribution to ensuring tail production on Norwegian pedestal. I stress that the TFO is characterised by the granting of rights in areas where there has been activity in the past, while the authorities in the numbered concession rounds assess search activities in areas where there has been no activity in the past. But it is still important for me - even in the TFO round - to have the attention, among other things. on fisheries, biodiversity and the challenges of coastal activity. The Ministry is now working on the publication of the TFO 2008. We will announce the round in a short time and invite the companies to apply for an extraction permit in the TFO round of the year. Since the TFO was established, we have set 1 October as a deadline for the companies to apply for the grant. There will be no deviation from this this year. Companies will have the time they need to assess which blocks to apply for. Let me also just add finally that during this year we will have a review of the TFO system. We believe that this is natural after the scheme has now worked for some years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e792	At first I think it is very positive to hear the Government's support for the TFO as such. It is known that the government party SV has gone hard on the TFO, and they believe it is an undemocratic process. I record that there is an SV in the room during the Questionnaire for once and follow this very closely. So there's probably more people who are interested in hearing what the council says. What's interesting here, at the same time, is about the debate that's going on -- one sees that there's a gap in the government whether TFO is positive or not -- that one here creates an uncertainty for the oil industry. Now, when you have a postponement of the call in a couple of months compared to what has been normal, it creates unnecessary pressure on the way the oil companies operate, when you still have the same deadline to apply. Does the Council of State see that oil companies would like to have less time, and thus not receive as good applications sent to the Government? If so, will the Council of State take that into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e799	We believe that the companies have plenty of time with a deadline of 1 October. Most companies have good experience in this, and we're doing the process of TFO in great transparency. I am concerned that in these processes there are two considerations to be taken into account. Firstly, we must ensure that we have thorough reviews with the professional bodies, whether environmental authorities or fisheries authorities. Secondly, we need to ensure that companies have sufficient time to prepare thoroughly in the application process. I believe that we are taking care of both of these considerations through the process that we have set up this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e806	TFO has been done many times, as the Council of State itself says. So one would think that the procedures here were relatively straightforward, and that the knowledge acquisition was done a long time ago in most areas. Therefore, this delay is in a bit strange light. I guess there aren't so huge areas that are being opened for the first time, and then it seems like there are internal disputes, where SV sits on the hind legs for incomprehensible reasons, which is actually the cause here. Another thing that's good to confirm about the process is: the government has talked about openness in the ministry. I think that's positive. But she has also talked about the possibility of sending matters out to the hearing, so that more and more people will be told. How will this principle of consultation which the Council of State has given its opinion on earlier in other cases, where appropriate the framework or influence the TFO round after the company has applied for and before they may be awarded the issued licences?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e813	Let me first say that I am concerned with the thoroughness of all these processes. And yes, we've had experience in dealing with these processes since 2003. It does not mean that there is no need for us to go full rounds with fisheries authorities and with environmental authorities. I put a lot of emphasis on the fact that the processes are going to take place in such a way that we are able to take over our points of view and make the real balances that are needed. As for the transparency that I put up with in all the processes relating to the oil and gas business, we are not, of course, putting it up so that in itself it helps to delay the processes. That's the basis for everything we do. The systems we have for rounds and allocations will go their way, but within that framework we add up to maximum transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e820	The size then goes to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e826	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment and Development: «Now it has happened again; a man attacked by the bear in Sweden. The spring of 2008 starts as the fall of 2007 ended, predators attack people. At the time of the treatment of the predatory game, those who claimed that proximity to the predatory game could lead to danger, and that people in the predatory game areas today feel fear and change their behavior, as research in the North-Tronde Team documents, ridiculed. Does the Council of State see that the predatory game policy is based on the wrong basis and opinions, and does he see the need to change the course in the light of the episodes in Sweden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e835	It is very regrettable what has happened in Sweden, with a new bear attack. Fortunately, the man is beyond danger, and the bear is shot. So even though the starting point was the most negative and the driest possible, it was acted on the Swedish side in such a situation, but it is of course easy to understand that this creates fear and unrest in strokes in Norway where one can imagine that similar things can happen. It has to be added that, fortunately, attacks on people by bears are very, very rare. Almost all encounters between humans and bears are completely harmless and peaceful, and it is the bear that disappears, but there may be situations where the bear can pose a danger to humans. Therefore, it is important to always go through the course of events in such a situation as we have now seen in Sweden, to see what it can teach us about patterns of action in Norway. When the bear is dangerous to humans, it is usually in situations where the bear feels threatened, damaged or has kids nearby and will thus scare away intruders and defend himself and the offspring. What is the cause of the last bear attack in Sweden is, as far as I can understand, still unclear. The aim of the predatory game policy was a broad majority in Stortinget, including the questioner's party, who agreed to it. I get almost weekly questions about the predatory game policy from the representative, Gundersen. I have great respect for that, but sometimes I am uncertain about what is the Right Position in the matter, for my clear understanding is that the Right entered into the Robbery Agreement and stood firm on the Robbery Agreement. The essence of the predatory game agreement is that stocking targets are set for the four predatory game species, while at the same time the aim is to implement the policy with the lowest possible level of conflict. Environmental protection authorities use instruments such as harm reduction and licensing to reduce the level of damage and conflict and predatory wildlife populations are monitored as well as closely as possible. The population of bear in Norway remains significant below the nationally determined stock target of 15 juveniles. This means that in the future we will have more bear in Norway, which will also increase the likelihood of meeting the bear in Norwegian nature. In the construction phase we are now in, in order to check the growth, a licence can be issued by the bear. Otherwise, I would like to clarify it of course that the threshold for abduction permit for nearby bears should be very low - and so is it. As I stressed in the Questionnaire on 21 November last year, it is important to disseminate knowledge about how we can live safely with bears. I will therefore place great emphasis on information measures to ensure the dissemination of such knowledge. I would also like to remind you that the municipalities have the opportunity to apply for funds for anti-conflict measures, and that the Minister of Agriculture and I, a month ago, were well aware of this, launched a number of anti-conflict measures. But to make a long story short: The essence of the government's policy, which I perceive is in line with the Greatness's predatory settlement and the Right's desire, is a combination of sticking to the objectives of the four major predatory species and getting the populations up to meet the objectives of the population, and doing what is at all human power to reduce the hazards and reduce the level of conflict associated with this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e852	I also believe the Minister for the Environment is aware that I called out strong warnings when the rapprochement agreement was concluded, but we do not need to take that discussion. I think that at that time, that is, Hedmark Right, who said from above, we were in the only area that was really affected, next to the North Throne Team. Now many more are affected. And what were we told? We were told that there would be a two-part objective in the areas of high load. We were told, to it with fear, that it was really just learning how to behave. Now we see something completely different. Now we have lived for four years with this predatory policy. This should be considered. That is what the Minister for the Environment says - and I think that is an important objective: to bring down the level of conflict. In fact, you have to start building on respect for those who are affected, and more and more people are going to be aware of it. So my question is, is the Minister for the Environment prepared to take such a review now on the basis of the experience we actually have?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e859	Let me first say that I have the greatest respect for the clear and clear representation of Gundersen. He is in this area a fireman who stands firm in his views, and a driving force to get this discussed in Stortinget. At the same time, I must again stress that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on the fundamental features of predatory policy, including the questioner's own party, and I must almost be allowed to base it on it. We have come up with a series of measures. It turned out that some of the questions asked were related to -- we had a discussion about fences earlier. The government has therefore presented a series of measures aimed at reducing the level of conflict. It's building fences. It is to authorise killing once the target stock has been reached. It is, as I said in the previous post, of course, to keep a low threshold for felling if there were to be dangerous situations for people. That's session information. It is at all to make it easier to live with the uncertainty associated with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e866	I was also very concerned about getting an environmental policy and, in particular, a predatory game policy that serves the wild game, and what we're about today, doesn't do that. A crisis of confidence between the areas concerned and the areas not affected is being built up, and we are creating disintegration. In today's Evening Post we see the worst impact of it. The researchers now suggest that half of the wolf population is being hunted illegally. There is no sustainable policy. I'm going to repeat the question to the Minister for the Environment. As long as you don't realize that without having a policy that's actually based on respect for those who are affected, and that you realize that rights are lost, and that you have to build a whole new policy on that foundation, I'm going to be a repetition of the question-terror around just this. I believe, as I said, that we are about to create a serious crisis of confidence in our democracy, and that must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e873	Let me first explicitly state that shooting wolves illegally of course is environmental crime and as such a matter for the police, prosecution authorities and the judiciary that I do not want to go into. But the representative has the right, of course, to the basics, and it is that there has to be confidence that the systems work, which makes people in the community feel safe and comfortable. That is also the objective. But we have to accept that there will be conflicts in this area in the years to come. There's not a single solution to this that will satisfy everyone, precisely because we have to reconcile two purposes that are not necessarily identical. We are going to build up real populations of the four large predators, to which we are internationally obliged, and to which there is a broad majority in Norway for us to go. But, of course, predators live somewhere, and the people who live in those places may feel insecure, and that insecurity we should take on the greatest seriousness. That's why I'm happy to have questions about this often. We need to look at every possible measure to reduce local uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e880	With this threat, the Storting goes to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e886	‘NHD owns Løkken mines in the municipality of Meldal, after having returned to the State in the event of the closure of operations in 1987. The impact of the pollution control measures that were introduced at the time is decreasing and the municipality is very concerned about these developments. The SFT defines the pollution potential of these mines as the largest and most complex of its kind in Norway and agrees that new measures are needed. The municipality wants a pilot project with ionisation plants to clean the mining water. What does the Council of State think about this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e893	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade owns and manages mining properties that have been repatriated to the State, including: The loop is digging in the Meldal municipality. The run-off from mining can lead to reduced pH contamination and elevated concentrations of heavy metals in watercourses. As the landowner, the State is committed to finding solutions to the pollution problem at the Loop mines. Of course, the pollution situation increases the involvement of residents and businesses in the municipality of Meldal. It is mainly the local environment that is affected by the negative effects of increased pollution, but it could also have effects at regional level if pollution increases in Orkla. The SFT has required the emission of copper and the samples from Orkla have shown copper quantities that are largely well within the requirements set by the SFT. Therefore, the pollution situation has so far appeared to be satisfactory. As of 2002, increasing heavy metal content in waste water from mines has been reported. There is therefore evidence that the effectiveness of the existing purification system will not be sufficient in the long term. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has received a prior warning from the SFT regarding a possible order to investigate pollution control measures in the mining area of the Onion. Let me make it clear that the department has been, and is, in a constructive dialogue with the SFT and Bergvesen on this matter. We want close cooperation with the SFT to identify measures that are best suited to solving the pollution problems of Löken Werk. It is important that when assessing and selecting measures, we weigh environmental benefits against costs. A dietary benefit assessment must therefore be the basis for any change to existing measures or the implementation of new measures at Loop mines. A clean process requires further investigation of different measures. Only when the investigation is available will we have the basis to decide on any new measures at Løken Werk.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e914	Thanks for the answer. I understand that it is too early to conclude. However, for the population in the area, it is important that the solution chosen does not become a purely cost question. I therefore welcome the signals from the Council of State that he who owns will try to find the best solution for the environment and the community. Is it possible, then, that the SFTs will be followed up and that the Ministry is currently open to alternative solutions to the pollution problem, including an ionising plant if the SFT imposes it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e921	For the state it is a matter of course to follow the instructions that had to come from State pollution control. As mentioned above, the Ministry and Bergvesenet are in good dialogue with the SFT in order to solve the pollution problems at the Løkken. No decision has been taken as to what action, if any, should be taken at Løkken Works. It is only when the investigation is available that it is possible to say something more about this. As a pollution authority, the SFT will be central to the selection of measures. Further work on assessing concrete actions will include: based on the impact assessment of the Løkken mines carried out by Bergvesenet in 2006 and 2007. The report explains, inter alia: for possible pollution control measures, such as removal of masses and covering of masses. Sewage treatment plants are also mentioned. Experience from our own country and from Sweden is also important in assessing concrete actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e928	I thank you for your answer again. There is no doubt that it has been a challenge for the people of the Loop to deal with a mine owner sitting in Oslo. I myself, having been rapporteur in this municipality for some years, have learned that it may be difficult to get the department on the job. Can the Council of State now make sure that he takes seriously the ownership role of the repatriated mines on the onion?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e937	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e942	It was short and all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e948	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘For almost 20 years, there has been work for new railway tunnels in Drangsdalen, Lund Municipality. This is a rascal route on the Sørlandsbanen where the train traffic now has to go at a greatly reduced speed. Conditions hamper the transport of people and goods, and racial hazards also pose safety risks. What conditions must be in place for railway tunnels in the Drangsdalen to be prioritised in the national transport plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e957	The railway works continuously to increase safety on the railway and race-related aspects. The ETA proposal for NTP 2010-2019 prioritises DKK 1.4 billion for national security measures involving racial or racial protection. Re-monitoring of the whole country's racial hazard is taking place, and protective construction procedures to manage train traffic safely in extreme weather conditions are established. That part of the Drangs Valley, which is the most rascal, is 7 km long. Here the line goes into a very sloppy terrain. There are three Racial Warning Curtains installed, and the train runs at low speed through the area. It's set of funds for an additional one of the Racial Notice Guards this year. In the last 10-15 years, several distribution and risk assessments have been carried out in the Drangsdalen both by the NGI, the Norwegian Geotechnical Institute, and DNV, the Norske Veritas. The NSB also developed plans for the conversion of the line in 1993-1994, which evaluated different options, including: an alternative with tunnel - a total of 8 km of line conversion. Line conversion costs were estimated at approximately 300 million. kr. The current government could not find priority over the project. A corresponding solution today is likely to have an estimated cost of €1 billion. The railway station has recently completed a systematic monitoring work in the Drangsdalen in order to identify and prioritise measures that could reduce the racial hazard in the area. The plan describes measures for 35 million. kr for racial protection and warning. The Bjødnetna-Fosskkampen route will be prioritised first, as the level of risk considered to be the highest. Gradually, it is unlikely to increase the speed of the route, but the objective of reducing the risk must always be at the root of the problem. The railway works intend to collect sets, with monitoring, restrictions on running speed, racial alerts and racial protection, the level of risk of the route is acceptable. In addition to increased safety, a line conversion in the tunnel could reduce travel time on the route. Any prioritisation of this measure must be weighed against other necessary measures on the network. In the present NTP 2006-2015 and in its proposal for NTP 2010-2019, local passenger traffic around Oslo, Trondheim, Stavanger, Bergen, mid-distance traffic in the intercity area of the Austland and freight traffic on the main routes were prioritised. Its liabilities are subject to a deadline for consultation until 30 April on the NTP draft.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e972	I thank you for your answer. It is positive that alerts and security measures are being worked on, but in a long-term perspective, only a tunnel opens up for forward-looking traffic in this area, which is a good solution. My question to the Council of State will be: If, in its work with the NTP, the municipality of Rogaland prioritizes this project at the top in terms of rail, what conditions regarding the national frameworks must be in place in order for this to be prioritised, given the assumption that the Council of State is linked to urban traffic, and the priority given to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e981	When it comes to the overall framework of the national transport plan, I do not have per person. today basis for an answer to that question. It will have to be seen in a total context, and of course it will be associated with other priorities. This way, you will see projects prioritised on top. They will push other projects downwards. That's the way it is. The final priority of this is that I will have to return to the state first after the state has ceased listening, but of course also after the government has done its priorities, both on the frame and on the devices of the frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e986	There is a rather special situation on the Sørlandsbanen that the train runs for 30 km/h over a longer distance. It is an extraordinary situation that has lasted a long time and that should have been solved. Does the Council of State feel that she knows this problem well enough to assess it against other investment needs, and can the Council of State say a little more about this with the priority of railway improvement related to major cities? Is it such that during the NTP period no major investment projects other than those linked to the metropolitan areas will be considered? It seems a bit strange when representatives of many parties, including the government parties, create the impression of being prepared to invest hundreds of millions in the high-speed rail sector, while a project like this could risk having to stay for another period without prioritising.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e995	To the first question, it is that the hearings that are currently in the state, I expect that the most important projects in the individual state will be highlighted, and that by doing so, I will of course also get the necessary insight into the projects, which I will then acquire from my budgets on the projects that a local opinion is most important. In addition to this, we who are responsible for seeing the country gather, of course consider which sections are the most important when we look beyond the individual counties. So I believe that the basis for getting me good information about both this and other projects is sufficient. When it comes to priorities, I referred to their priorities. The government's priorities, which I'm going to present to the Storting in December, are not given. It is clear that we also need to have improvements on the network, because passenger traffic and not least freight traffic depend on effective progress between the major cities. When it comes to passenger traffic, I think the people's networks are the most important priorities. I've repeated that many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1010	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Not since 1992 have more people died in domestic traffic than in 2007. Last year, 28 people were killed on the roads in the county and more than 500 people were injured. At the same time, road maintenance and investment appropriations for Uppland count the lowest in the country, and maintenance delays only increase. How will the Council of State reverse the negative developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1019	In Oppland, 28 killed and 64 seriously injured drivers were registered in 2007. Two deaths have been recorded so far in 2008. In addition, I am aware that unfortunately it has been a fatal accident on Rv. 4 last weekend which has not entered the official registration. On a national basis, there has been a reduction in the number of deaths in recent years. In Oppland, on the other hand, the 2007 figure shows a significant increase. This is alarming. I, like the representative Nistad, am busy strengthening road safety on the Norwegian road, both in the short and long term. The government is busy bringing down road accidents and working on the National Transport Plan and budgeting focus on implementing projects and measures that provide safer roads and fewer accidents. In the short term, it is important to consider among others. reduced speed limits and establishment of midfield or midfield etc. In the longer term, major infrastructure measures are needed. Rv. 255 Jørstad-Segalstad bridge in Uppland is under construction, cf. St. pp. No 35 for 2006-2007. There are also local decisions on partial toll financing for the development of the E6 Tingberg Thirteen, which are being centrally addressed for submissions to the Stortinget. The planning work further northwards is under way, including: the Lillehammer-Otta route is a pilot project for the quality assurance of early stages of the transport project, known as KS1. I will come back to further development of the main road network in Uppland in connection with the National Transport Plan 2010-2019, which will be presented at the turn of the year 2008/2009. The distribution of resources for operation and maintenance is made on the basis of the fact that there should be a most uniform standard on the national road network, irrespective of county boundaries. The state road authority distributes funds based on road length, traffic volume, population density, etc. Maintenance means are allocated to road surfaces, tunnels, bridges, signs, railings, ditching and other areas where the need is considered to be greatest. The need is mainly measured in the technical standard. Having said that, I would like to stress that the governance authorities are taking a broad and holistic approach to road safety work, with measures targeting both the infrastructure, the road user and the vehicles involved. This is what has produced good results, which means that Norway's failure in our riot figures is among the countries in the world that have achieved the best results in this area. The deep analysis of the deadlocks in road traffic shows that relationships relate to all of these parts that I'm talking about. Among other things, the results show that high speed, fatigue and/or intoxication among drivers contributed to many of the fatal cases in 2006. Road traffic controllers should assume their responsibilities, but we should not forget that road users also have a responsibility. Last weekend lost, among others. 15 persons driving the driving licence after checking for E6. For example, there is more to it than the vigil that needs to be cleaned up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1030	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now it's like Uppland is one of the most transitory states. We have both E16 and E6, and we have Rv. Four, which are big stem viruses. Unfortunately, serious accident statistics have only continued into this year. Now the state council said she wants a uniform standard on the main road network. It turns out that the standard on the main road network in Uppland is far below the objective of maintenance and standard on the main roads. Will the Council of State do something, so that even Uppland can get a standard similar to that of the Council of State claiming that the country should have?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1037	In connection with the basic material of the national transport plan, which we are currently working on, I have asked for material for the standard on the different parts of the road network. This applies to width and where we have yellow center stripe, which is kind of an element to see if the width is so large that two cars can pass each other without problems - not at least two combinations of vehicles. We have a strong increase in freight car traffic. Keeping the width and curve of the roads so that freight traffic can pass without having to stop has both an environmental side and not least a safety side. I want to go further into this matter to see how we can lift that part of the road network that is the worst, up to a standard that allows people and business to travel without risk to life and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1042	I thank you for your answer. Now there are quite a number of reports on the standard already. For E16 in particular, the standard already exists in the old national transport plan. It's done very little on the E16 in recent years, so the bad standard, that two car combinations can't meet, is well known. So now the plan for E16 in Uppland is done, and so on. for Fileberg, there are now eight investigations of sections that are clear. Will the Council of State do anything about these?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1051	Among other things, as a result of a tragic car toll on the E16 in the near past, I called a meeting tomorrow, just to get an overview of the plan status and standard on the road. This is an important connection between Bergen and Oslo. It is clear that the letters I receive from the transport industry link to that road, have made me want to update on him, like what I do, of course, on other important tribal roads. The width of E16 is smaller, so it's a narrower path than other tribal paths, and we have to think about how to solve it. This causes major environmental problems because it is not possible to get the running speed related, but it also leads to an increase in the traffic risk element.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1059	‘The Council of State warns that the provisions of the Law of the Grand Duchy on Road pricing must be consulted widely. At the same time, the Council of State assures that it has always been a clear premise that a person must have a local anchor before road pricing is put into effect. Toll financing has evolved from additional funding to main funding through state road construction. There is reason to fear that road pricing will be a new government tool to force user payments. Will the Council of State ensure the use of referendum before the use of road pricing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1066	Before Easter, the deposit of Oslopackak 3 part 1 was handled in Stortinget. Afterwards, the theme of road pricing and local anchoring has been discussed. The proposal for road pricing was originally presented by the government of Stoltenberg I and is handled by Stortinget before. However, the rule has not entered into force, nor have any additional regulations been drawn up. A wide-ranging regulatory proposal will be issued during 2008. It has always been a clear premise that one must have local anchoring in the form of local initiatives and decisions before road pricing is implemented. This is also clearly expressed in the legal text itself. How to secure the local anchorage must be up to each municipality or county. I think this is the right way to go when you're going to develop measures for urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1073	Thanks for the answer. The central point of the question is what local anchoring really is and contains. The Minister of Transport is also Vice-President of the Centre Party, and I have seen that the party is concerned with both red tape and simplification and giving individual arms. What does the Minister for Transport think about giving people in the affected municipalities armsstrokes and decision-making powers through such important and comprehensive measures as road pricing, if any, are? Does the Minister for Transport think that it is an important decision that the citizens themselves should make? Or does the Minister for Transport think that this is too important for the citizens of a municipality or city to be allowed to decide for themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1082	Both the Government, the Minister of Transport and not least the Centre Party are busy with local democracy and want to strengthen it and support good local political processes. Today, we have a well-functioning system through the fact that people locally make their trustees and wives once every four years. If you are not satisfied with the decisions these trustees make, they may be thrown at the next conditions. It is a good form of democracy. On behalf of the inhabitants, these local populace also have a mandate to take decisions, such as: on the introduction of road pricing - and many other heavy decisions on the design of the community in many different areas, including: taxes on property. It's a part of local democracy, and it's with and with the local democracy that such processes go local.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1087	Thank you again for your answer. In the opinion of the questioner, it is also a goodvitalization of local democracy that citizens are actually allowed to decide for themselves, even more often than once every two or every four years. Now, the starting point is that this concerns the regulations of a law decision that the Progress Party is right against, but that is to say regulations of a law decision to be drafted, so that the Department and the Council of State have the full opportunity to include either rules on using local referendums or at least a recommendation to consult citizens through local referendums. Why does the Minister for Transport not want to give the citizens of the municipalities and cities affected by any road pricing measure the opportunity to comment on such a wide-ranging measure before it may be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1096	Norway, fortunately, is a free men and women society. Where these kinds of issues arise, there is an extensive local political debate with the inhabitants of the municipalities in question. If we are to go further along the lines of the representative of Sortevik here, decisions on property taxes and decisions relating to important matters such as business and residential areas should be made available for popular reconciliation. What I mean is, I want to water out the democracy we have today, where we have representatives who on behalf of the people and in dialogue with the people -- it could be a crowd meeting, there could be a lot of processes running locally, which I think are great, to strengthen those processes -- make the final decision. I am in favour of the democracy we have today, and I think that referendums should only apply to the very great decisions of principle, where the people must be heard, as a referendum on European Union affiliation and the like.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1104	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘Unacceptable employment conditions are reported for Polish construction workers. Terminations without land, wages under tariffs, excessive working days and unwarranted living conditions do not seem unusual. Labour immigration is record high, and demand remains high in the future. Does the Council of State feel that existing resources and measures against social dumping are adapted to the strong increase in labour migration, and what will the Council of State do to avoid such serious social dumping in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1113	Let me start by saying that I'm happy with the question. There is no doubt that what the representative is asking about is very important issues for Norwegian society, because it is in many ways about combating social dumping, and it is in many ways about taking care of our social model. There I think both the Government and the government parties and the Christian People's Party have common ambitions. The government wants it to be attractive for immigrants to come to Norway, and it is important that all those working here are properly guaranteed pay and working conditions. It is interesting that a survey carried out by the Labour Inspectorate shows that social dumping businesses ignore the attitudes of most people. Eight out of ten Nordics will boycott social dumping businesses. Since accession in the autumn of 2005, the Government has been working systematically to put in place measures to achieve sound working conditions through the Action Plan against social dumping. We are now experiencing the effect of the work. Both the Labour Inspectorate and the construction industry report improvements. That doesn't mean, however, that everything is good. Increased attention and new effective measures will probably lead to more examples being revealed, which I believe we have seen recently. The government has increased the budgets of the Labour Inspectorate strongly, by 10 million at the latest. kr for 2008. This increase will help to strengthen supervisory efforts and strengthen the work of the agency in providing targeted and good information to employers and migrant workers. The Labour Inspectorate may now use the imposition, suspension and periodic penalty payment for the supervision of pay and working conditions under the Public Employment Act and the Foreign Affairs Act. This, together with increased staffing, has led to more effective supervision. The supervisory reports now show a positive trend. This means that the government’s strengthening of the establishment has been a proper priority. Although the action plan on social dumping appears to work, it is important to keep efforts up to date in order to prevent the formation of a B team in Norwegian working life. This is why, during this six-month period, the Government will take several new measures. Let me mention someone: Right before Easter, contracting entities were subject to a so-called ‘care obligation’ and to the right of access for opt-outs when publicising collective bargaining agreements. The regulation imposes on main contractors the responsibility to ensure that subcontractors comply with the public service obligations. Trustees of the main contractor are given access to the remuneration and working conditions of the subcontractors in order to verify compliance with the requirements. If a breach is detected, it may provide the information to the supervisory seat so that it can be followed. Furthermore, and I think this is very important: All workers carrying out work at construction sites, approx. 300000 persons, shall have ID cards by the summer of 2008. The regulation was adopted last year, it is in force, and the production of ID cards is in full swing. With effect from 1 March 2008, enhanced requirements for contracting authorities in the country and in the municipality for the purchase of services and works shall apply. The regulation requires contracting entities to require that employees have normal pay and working conditions. In addition, contracting entities shall carry out the necessary checks to verify that salary and working conditions requirements are actually complied with and, in the event of a breach, penalties are observed. The mandatory notification and registration requirement for manning undertakings to operate in Norway and the prohibition of rentals from unregistered establishments have been at a hearing on 10 January 2008. The new regulation is planned to be adopted during the spring, with full implementation of the scheme in the autumn of 2008. We believe that these measures will have a good effect. In order to ensure continued attention to social dumping, the Government will organise an experience conference on 13 May 2008. Together with the social partners, we will summarise the experience of social dumping so far and discuss the need for any new measures, not least with a focus on new industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1146	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is positive that the Labour Inspectorate is working, and I think it is positive to hear about the change in attitude in that area. The Christian People's Party supports the systematic and strategic work undertaken to reduce social dumping, from the right of access and the obligation to hold ID cards, which was mentioned. I find it very unworthy that workers we need are treated in such a way that we have seen bad examples lately, and I think it is extra bad that the worst examples come from construction sites where state and state companies stand as sponsors. They are required to carry a bag, as mentioned. But what can state and local government do to prevent social dumping in a better way? Should not just state and municipality be good examples for other contracting entities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1155	Well, I think that's an important point. That is precisely why, as I said in my main response, we have now introduced tightening requirements for contracting authorities in the state and local authorities in the purchase of services and construction works, and that we have now received a regulation that requires contracting entities to make contractual demands that employees have normal pay and working conditions. But not least as important: contracting entities must also carry out the necessary checks to check whether this is being complied with and penalties if infringements are detected. With all sorts of reservations - I think this is very important - was, as far as I remember, the Christian People's Party against it. So yes, I agree that the state is important, and then I think this is one of the most important things. If I'm wrong, I have to apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1162	I thank you again for the answer. I want to go over something else. I was visiting several companies in my home country, and I must say that here was pay and housing in the best order. It was very nice to see. The companies were very concerned that the foreign workers would be included in the community in a very good way, and had therefore started a Norwegian course and paid for it. But unfortunately it was too expensive for them in the length. So my question to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion is whether he would like to support a spice team where state, municipalities and companies share the cost of language courses. We know how important language is to dialogue and to be able to talk together, whether it's at work or in leisure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1171	What Woie Duesund's representative is now raising is very important. It's about Norwegian training in and on behalf of the immigrant worker, but it's at least as important, I would say, that we now see a lot of immigrant workers bringing with them the family, as it forms the basis for family reunification. Not least for the family reunited workers, Norwegian training is very important, so we do not make the same mistake as we did in the 1960s and 1970s, as many spouses of family immigrants did not get into work. The impact of labour migration is then lower, and it is not good for women, mainly, who are affected. In the large-scale communication on labour immigration that I will present quite soon, Norwegian training is linked to the migrant worker, but not least to the family reunification of the migrant worker, an important topic, where we will invite the Stortinget to a discussion of the way we are going to strengthen Norwegian training for these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1179	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The Royal Wings Police often have to release smugglers and repeaters because of a large shortage of custody facilities, even if they have been decided upon in custody. This is frustrating for the police and other agencies. This is also the main cause of increased concern for the safety of society in general. What will the Council of State do to resolve this unworthy situation in Hedmark?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1188	Let me start by saying that I am very happy to have this question, because it has been one of the main areas of government to create more capacity for settlement and custody, so that the cows in front of Norwegian prisons are gone, and so that we can concentrate all efforts on the cows out of prison. It is quite right, as the questioner now points out, that there have been cases also in Hedmark and in Kongsvinger, but I would say over that quite country, over the last few years where you have seen that you have not had enough custody capacity. That's the background for us wanting to get rid of the reconciliation queue. I am also pleased to announce on Hedmark's behalf that the reconciliation queue is now under 800 judges. There has been a significant decrease since the last government sat and rushed, where there were up to 3,000 waiting in place, which brought a great deal of pressure into prison. We have the ambition to get rid of the queue during this magnification period. I believe that the forecasts that are now available speak for us to do so. What's supposed to be done is, of course, you have to set up a lot more places to accommodate people in both custody and settlement. I have to take the opportunity to pay great attention to the Kongsvinger region just in order to have participated in the hard work that the government has been working through, among other things. in the establishment of Bruvoll prisons with 70 places in the north of Odal, but also in the extension of Vardåsen and Ilseng prisons, which have contributed to the positive development of the settlement queue in Norway as we do. That's why we've decided that we'll continue this bet. This means that during this year we will have 400 new seats, while the spade is now stuck in the ground for a large prison in Halden, which costs over DKK 1 billion, and which will also help to create the basis for people being placed in custody. I am glad that we now also see that there are fewer and fewer cases where people do not get custody, precisely because the pressure is decreasing against the prisons and the government's policies in this way succeed. As a result, from 1 April to 15 April, two measures will be taken to ensure that the cover in prisons is brought down in the long term. First of all, people have to sit longer when you're in and out, and don't go as early as you've done in the past -- we're going to wind up some of the projected release. And then we also wind up doubling now in April. Then we will have the occupancy rate in Norwegian prisons down to the autumn. I hope that during the autumn we can get down to 93 pst. That means it's going to be 7 pst. free capacity capable of handling, inter alia: emergency care needs. That is why I believe that we can now see the light in the tunnel in relation to getting shelters, but not least getting shelters, which can help reduce crime in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1203	I thank the Council of State for a good answer and a full answer. That there is a precarious situation now, I'm sure, when police officer Per Olaf Nordli goes out in the Saturday newspaper to Glamdalen on March 8, 2008 and says so. I fully agree that the Kongswinger police and other police need very much praise for the job they do. But as Nordli says, ‘It’s obvious it’s frustrating. We feel that we are not allowed to do the job properly». That is what he says about the huge lack of custody areas that currently exist. In addition, it says: ‘Yesterday, the Kongswinger police had to release two Polish smugglers because of a lack of custody. In addition, five other prisons were assessed, but in the light of the situation of custody, the police found it pointless to produce them for imprisonment. Thus, seven persons have been released from custody for just the last two days.’ This was in the Glamdalen on 8 March 2008. Obviously, the situation is very worrying. I hear what the council says, but what do we do in the short term-- very short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1224	The government has promoted its action plan to phase out settlement queues in spring 2006, with a lot of measures, including 400 new sites. We've done it -- we're in the final phase now, and we're going to carry out the rest. It is great to see that Norwegian criminal services have now delivered, among other things. Bruvoll prison in Hedmark, so you're in a situation where you've moved from 3,000 judges and down to 800, as I said before. And it goes down quickly. But there are some dilemmas about closing the queue, among other things. that we are running at quite high capacity in prisons, so that the situation of care is, to a large extent, very long, until the end of the queue. However, I believe that we, both as the Council of State and as representatives of big business, should be concerned with the national perspective and look at just how we can overcome the national challenge that the payroll queue has been. Then it must be good that we now approach zero, so that we can bring down the coating and bring in people who are referred to care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1229	Eda, which is close to Kongsvinger, is, as far as I know, the second largest passage point in Norway in terms of goods and persons - it is possible that I am wrong, but at least the second largest. It's clear that in such a place, it's going to be a lot of smuggling. The cooperation between customs and police is very important, and it works very well there. But when you see that nothing is done about it when people are taken for smuggling, there may well be a danger that people will be frustrated, both within the police, as I pointed out, and within Customs. It is clear that the good cooperation that is there, with the good follow-up, we must be careful, and I am sure that the Council of State also believes, of course. But could the Council of State also say anything about the cooperation between customs and police, in this case on Eda?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1234	There I am on the government line. We are very concerned that the police have to cooperate with both the tax and customs authorities to a much greater extent than you might have traditionally done, and I am pleased that we are seeing a very close cooperation. There is only one thing that threatens it, and it is a possible impact on the budget proposals of the Progress Party, which means a dramatic cut in both the customs and tax authorities. We just have to hope that there will still be a political majority in this house that can help to maintain customs activity at the border in Hedmark, so that we can ensure good cooperation, because there are very important premises within the police in Norway. Should one have gone into the draft budget of the Progress Party in relation to customs, we would probably not have needed settlement or custody places, because then we wouldn't have taken any, and that's a development I don't want for Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1242	First, I would like to welcome the new Minister for Children and Gender Equality, Mr Huitfeldt, to the Stortinget, and say that I am looking forward to good and constructive cooperation. So to the question: ‘The Court of Auditors has carried out an activity analysis of Bufetat. The result shows a lack of control and control. The National Audit Office asks the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and Buffetat to ensure that children and young people receive an offer tailored to their needs. Many employees at institutions report concerns related to price pressure and short-termity, and lack of focus on quality and children’s needs. Will the Council of State carry out an examination of child protection in order to ensure that children and young people receive a good quality offer tailored to their needs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1251	I thank the representative Molvær Grimstad for welcoming me, and I also hope that we will have a good cooperation in this important area. In her question, she refers to the Riksrevision's business analysis of Buffetat. It is important that we have a critical system debate on child protection, but I disagree that the Riksrevision's analysis provides a general picture of a non-controlling entity. The analysis shows, on the contrary, that there has been a positive development in the protection of state children, and it shows that the reform initiated by Laila Davøy was a proper reform. In line with the objective, we have had more children in foster homes and on home-based interventions, while institutional use is reduced. I am glad that we have succeeded in what was the aim. Stortingen has been sent the analysis from the Riksrevision, and I await the processing of the document. Child protection deals with vulnerable children and young people. It is therefore important that we use methods that we know to produce good results. The use of evidence-based methods is an example of the development of child protection for a knowledge-based activity. The National Audit Office also points to important challenges and areas where we have an improvement potential. We take that seriously. In the process of further developing child protection, we regard the Riksrevision’s business analysis as a very important contribution. In the development of child protection, the focus is on children and young people. The individual child has different challenges and must have a qualitatively good offer tailored to the child’s own needs. This requires, inter alia: good cooperation between Bufetat and the municipalities. The state is currently using both state and private actors to meet the institutional needs of child protection. Buffetate is required to use its own state institutions as far as possible, covering the rest of the need through purchases from private operators. In the case of the purchase of private spaces, the bulk of GDP has agreed to the prioritisation of non-profit actors rather than commercial ones. According to the decision of the Storting, the department is required to comply with the procurement rules in the case of the purchase of private institutional premises. This is an area that is also closely followed up by the National Audit Office. The purchase of child-restraint sites takes place through negotiation. This process shall focus primarily on quality. Today, the quality of service provided by state and private actors is assessed in this way: In the case of State measures, they are followed up in accordance with the Quality Regulation. For private institutions, the institution must initially be approved in accordance with the authorisation requirement. In addition, there must be an agreement with the institution. The Ministry has been subjected to the procedure for the purchase of private child protection facilities. This has led to some changes in the procedures for the purchase of locations from both non-profit and commercial operators. These changes include, inter alia,: extended contract duration from two to four years, with an extension of up to two years. It gives a greater degree of long-termity to the private actors, which we think is important. I would like to work to ensure that children and young people receive a good quality offer tailored to their needs, but I do not believe that a check on child protection is necessary to ensure that this is done. It is likely that four years have passed since the 2004 Child Protection Reform. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality shall carry out a broad evaluation of the whole reform of child protection after the State assumes responsibility for the protection of children in the county. We have already made this clear in the revised national budget for 2006-2007. This evaluation will address both the professional and economic developments in the protection of children by the State and the achievement of both these objectives. The National Audit Office’s report is an important basis for the evaluation. The evaluation shall start in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1282	I thank the Council of State for your answer. When I visit different people who work in the field of child protection - it could be local authorities, people in the professional team associated with Bufetat, etc. - I get the right very clear impression that when it comes to the most postponed children and ensuring them the best possible supply, the price goes ahead of quality. Many are frustrated because they see that the economy is under pressure. According to the Riksrevision report, the Ministry has said that the 2008 budget framework is sufficient to solve the tasks they are charged with. But I see a big question mark about it, because when a person travels around the country, a right gets that there are too few resources, that they get so much pressure on prices when it comes to providing a qualitatively good supply to these children, that they add is frustrated, that they've been told that private operators should go out, and that only the public should be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1289	It's true, as the representative says, that we have special challenges related to the most vulnerable children. We have as our primary goal that most of these children should be placed in foster homes. There have been some problems recruiting enough foster homes for this group, but we also have the goal, even for the most vulnerable children, that they should be placed in foster homes in line with other children. It's a development that we're going to follow closely, and therefore we have a special grip on these things now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1294	What is very important then is that one does not reduce the level of institutional provision until one has had enough foster parents. Today it is a child who is in line waiting for foster parents. Then it's important to ensure the recruitment. In the Committee, we now have a proposal to ensure that foster parents receive professional treatment. It applies both to service pensions and to sick pay, which many do not receive, and they therefore end up in a difficult situation. Will the Council of State help to ensure that not only the state-enforced foster homes - I know that the department is working to ensure professional dishes - but all foster parents get professional dishes, and that one should be able to build more institutions before one has a good enough supply for all children?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1299	We're working on the assumption that there's foster homes that are the goal, but for some, institution placement is right, whether it's temporary or on a permanent basis. We know that where children are to be placed in an amplified foster home, the rights of foster parents are also important, but so important is the guidance for individual foster parents, which is essential for them to be able to do this job. Today we have a lot of foster homes that are ready to accommodate children, but there are not as many who are ready to accept particularly vulnerable children. It's a development that we'll follow very carefully, because this is about the most vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1307	I have this question for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘There have been recent criticisms of the operation of certain Steiner Schools in the media. What concrete action does the Council of State intend to take in this context?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1316	I am aware of the claims made about the election and harassment of certain Steinerskular in the media. I can assure the representative Dørum that I am taking this seriously. Private schools approved after private schools, between the Steinerskulls, must comply with the required requirements for running the enterprise. As in public schools, elephants in private schools have demands for a good physical and psychosocial environment, where all the elephants experience security and know that they belong to. This comes directly from the private sphere. Everyone added to the school has an obligation to investigate and warn if they have knowledge or suspicion of bullying, choice or other adverse behaviour. If a student or parent asks for measures related to the psychosocial environment, for example: measures against infringing behaviour such as bullying and choice shall be taken by the school as soon as possible. Privateculelov states that schools should work actively and targeted to meet the requirements of the school environment that can be found in the law. Any deviations from the legislation could be covered by supervision carried out by the State. In practice, supervision is seen in works as random checks or on the basis of indications of non-conformity. If there is a breach of private or other laws, the State has secured effective means of sanction. In the event of a break in rules, the county may require the school to correct the ratio. In addition, if serious circumstances are detected, the state may be held back, the school may be required to pay back, or the approval may be withdrawn. From this I will state that the private sector - like the training law - has rules to prevent and prevent bullying and harassment. The County is responsible for carrying out supervision to detect any breaches of the Code. In general, I am working on targeting and strengthening supervision at both public and private schools. In the field of education, oversight shall be the main task of the State in 2008 and supervision is reinforced by 7.5 million. kr. As a media alert, I have asked the Education Directorate to follow up on the matter mentioned in the media, and I have full confidence that the matter will be followed up in a normal way through the supervision of the county council. In this context, I can show that the Education Directorate has stated that, based on what has emerged in the VG, it is natural to take matters up with the County Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1331	I have asked the question openly because I want to establish what the Council of State has also done, that we have clear rules of play both in public schools and in private schools. It is also true that when someone makes serious criticisms, in this case as the Council of State pointed out, it is important both for the sake of those who have made the criticism, and also for the sake of those who are exposed to it - no matter where it may be - that it is clarified what is what. I see that the Council of State, through its response to me, has, first of all, underlined the principle and tidyness of the legislation, but more important than that, that the Council of State has confirmed what he has said publicly in the past, that something is happening here in practice with what has been said, that the Directorate of Education is looking at the matter, and that it has been confirmed. I see that as a satisfactory clarification. I just want to ask, since this came out to the public in the way it has done, that you also get familiar with the results of the review that the Education Directorate then does.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1338	It sounds like we're quite a few when it comes to the contents of the case and the seriousness in it. Fortunately, we have a system to follow up that kind of thing. And just to repeat it: I have, as I said, asked that this be followed up, and I have full confidence that it will be done. Experience in the next round will allow hosts to communicate in an appropriate way in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1343	The Storting Hall can use question-time questions for polemics. One may ask questions for mutual information, but one may also ask questions for information to all those concerned by a case. I have chosen to do the last thing, and I feel that the Council of State has answered it neatly and properly and also pointed out what is now happening in practice. It's also clarified -- although I don't see it as unexpected, but I think it's important that it's clarified and just said in the Stortinget -- that when it's concluded, you will also be familiar with the result. This means that those who make a criticism know that it will be examined, and that those who are subjected to the criticism know that they will be properly and properly evaluated. And you'll finally be familiar with this. So the purpose of my question has been achieved by the Council of State's answer to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1348	I believe that what was meant by my answer, is also achieved, simply that it is understood by the questioner, and that we are some.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-02.ana.ud1620e1353	Then this question mark was concluded in a decent and pleasant way.
