ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e61	The representative Dagfinn Højbrätt, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e78	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e89	Initially, I will be allowed to thank the Committee for a very tidy process also in connection with the next year's budget. Cleanness is important in such extensive work as the State budget is, so that, within a relatively short period of time, a budget can be put in place that is as useful as possible, and for the benefit of Health-Norway. I think the committee has done this in a good way. Despite the fact that there is, of course, a relatively large political disagreement in many areas, one has also clearly signed up in those areas where this has been possible. Most of the Norwegian healthcare system is very good, and I find reason to pay tribute to all those who do a fantastic job in the health and care sector in Norway. Every day, thousands of Nordics receive top-class health and care services. But it is also not possible to get under the chair that even in the health sector there is still a lot that has been undone, and much that can be better. We as politicians are often accused of black-painting the reality of health care, and to some extent you might get the impression of this, if you just read the tabloid press. However, I believe that one of the most important political tasks that politicians have is to get what doesn't work, to start working. And then it often happens that the debates are in the fields where the shortcomings are. Just because it's doing so very well out there in the health and care sector, I've chosen to point this out before I start on my own post on the state budget, and what changes the government should have made to make at a time when the revenues of the state have never been as high as they are today. The budget is now more than NOK 131 billion under the responsibility of the Health and Welfare Committee. In other words, the government has had an opportunity that no other government has had when it comes to getting the best possible health budget. Despite the fact that there is very much good in the budget, the government does not fulfill the promises and expectations that they themselves have created. Following the 2005 elections, the red-green lots negotiated a document on what they would accomplish during the flooding period. This was the Soria Moria statement. In this statement there were several concrete promises that created great expectations for many sick and nursing people in Norway. Among other things, these were in the health and care sector: strengthen the economy of hospitals, so that more patients are treated and waiting times are kept low safe rehabilitation and training for those who need more intensive work to remove the problem of patients being placed on a hospital corridor and the last thing I want to mention is to reduce self-esteem in health services and keep them at a low level. Today's self-exploitation policy creates major economic problems for very many sick people who initially have more than enough to deal with their own disease in many ways. Those who are particularly hard hit are chroniclers and those who have lower or medium income. These are usually not those who have come out very well in recent years, with good pay, but unfortunately also those who are in a situation where they have trouble getting their daily lives to spend financially. The party is concerned about all the increases in the excesses of the red-green government parties since they came to power in 2005. The Progress Party has stressed in its alternative budget the need to reduce today's self-payment rates, all the time it has now come to a point where the excess has become so high that there is actually a tax on sickness. Since 2005, the red-green lots have increased self-esteem 1 by 12,3 pst. The percentages of medical help have increased by 10.25 pst., reimbursement for physiotherapy by 10.25 pst. and equivalent for medical and psychological care. This is in stark contrast to what you say in your own government statement. The Progress Party zeros all self-proprietary applications in its alternative budget and reduces equity participation 1 to NOK 1500. There is a need for major changes in the structure, funding and instruments of Norwegian health policy. Interaction problems between different levels of administration cannot be solved through small adjustments, but by taking structural action. Financial responsibility must be attributed to the level of government administration, in order to ensure patient provision throughout the country and to ensure an effective and appropriate use of resources at the appropriate level of healthcare. Furthermore, there is a need to remove regional health businesses, which have evolved into a cost-effective health regime. Regional health establishments should be replaced by a state hospital directorate, so that both responsibility and planning are of a national nature. Furthermore, the healthcare system needs to be organised in such a way that medical personnel – doctors, nurses, caregivers, etc. – are related to patient-related work to a greater extent than today, and commercial employees are taking on administrative tasks that are currently carried out by health professionals. We look forward to the Minister of Health and Welfare's informed interaction reform. It's going to be interesting when it finally comes to treatment in this house, to see what you can get in place. The Minister of Health and Health will have the honour to make as extensive an approach as has been announced, because it is needed. In the case of specialist healthcare, the economy of hospitals is very worrying. The same applies to developments related to increasing waiting lists and waiting times in the ordinary specialist health service, but also in the area of rehabilitation and care. It is unsustainable that about 230,000 people are in a state of health in one of the richest countries in the world. We see that the waiting times are now increasing. The Progress Party proposes to improve the economy of hospitals for 2009 by DKK 2 billion in its alternative budget. This includes, inter alia: that the Progress Party removes the remaining distribution of bias between the different health establishments. Once the Government has recognised that there is a division of inequalities between regional health businesses and yet only chooses to correct half, the Government has signalled that it is okay for some to receive less and less patient treatment from a residence address. The Progress Party does not agree to do so. In addition, we have seen that for the current year it is moving towards a budget of approx. 900 million. kr within the specialist health care of hospitals. The government has announced and has made proposals on in St.prp. No 13 for 2008-2009 an additional allocation of 500 million. kr for the current year. That appropriations shall not be continued because there is an additional appropriations within the budget of the year. In other words, healthcare businesses will continue to face major challenges in the context of next year’s budget. In addition, the Party proposes more equalising private and public providers, which means that the total capacity of the healthcare system will be used. What we are talking about in particular is, among other things, the contract specialists, which are part of the responsibility of the regional health establishments. With better use this could lead to shorter waiting lists and waiting times. In order to ensure increased patient treatment and effectiveness, the input-driven funding is also increased from 40 to 60 pst. in the alternative budget of the Progress Party. There is an urgent need to treat patients, and the policies of the current government have led to an increasing number of cows in the health system. The government is adding up to a continuation of purchases of private ideal rehabilitation sites in 2009. This is not satisfactory all the time each six-bed rehabilitation has disappeared under the seated government. All the parties at Stortinget have said that rehabilitation would be the next big bet area. As a representative of the current state council, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen also stated this in a meeting with LHL just before the 2005 elections. Since it's been the most chatted. It's important that we now show that rehabilitation is going to be the next bet area. The first thing you should do is at least make use of the beds that are out there. In this context, reference is made to the alternative budget of the Progress Party, which earmarks 300 million. kr for the purchase of rehabilitation facilities, so that the capacity of both public and private institutions and non-profit institutions can be used and thus the need for these services is met. In addition, the considerable investment in hospitals’ finances will ensure that funds are released for increased efforts to rehabilitate. Rehabilitation is highly socio-economically profitable, while the quality of life for the person concerned is significantly increased. 4 000 drug users are waiting for help. This occurs at the same time as institutional places are laid down or are empty. The Progress Party takes action in its alternative budget to ensure that the many vacant beds of private and private non-profit institutions are used. In this context, I will in fact give tribute to the Committee, and in particular to the Government Parties, which have met the other Committee in order to put in place good measures, additional measures, in the context of the care of cattle. I want to give a great reward to the committee for that. I also hope that it can help put in place a better offer in the long term, so that not the only debate we get is whether or not heroin should be given on a blue prescription. There is so much more that must also be part of this debate. Medical research in Norway does not maintain a satisfactory level of funding. The 2009 alternative budget of the Progress Party proposes an increase in research of a total of 100 million. kr. Diabetes, dementia, cancer, ADHD and stem cell research are priority areas of the Progress Party. In this respect, it is once again surprising to read that one does not follow up on one’s own document, the National Action Plan on Diabetes. What goes on is a grant linked to Diaphon. In addition, there is little good to read about what to do in the context of their own action plan and strategy. This is not sustainable. It gives the impression that even if we get a plane or a document, you don't follow up. After all, we need to follow up the planning documents we ourselves produce, which create credibility for us politicians. If we just make plan documents but don't follow up with measures, the political debate will also come. A number of recordings have been made, including: from the Register of Cancer, which is well-founded. For this reason, the Progress Party has strengthened regional health businesses, so that development is as desired. In this context, we need to look at the cancer-related sub-registration and the benefits that these could have for research, development and ultimately cancer treatment in Norway. Finally, I would like to address those proposals in which the Progress Party either stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e155	The representative Harald T. Nesvik mentioned the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e160	I'd like to ask Nesvik about two things. One: In the case of excesses, last year TNF-inhibitors, i.e. psoriatic and remathetic medicinal products, were transferred to health care establishments. We have now seen that there are more than 1 billion kroner spent on this via healthcare companies. Patients receive treatment and follow-up via them, and they release excesses, which the representative stressed in his post. Why, then, does the Progress Party want to turn back on the good development that has been in that field, and bring the TNF-inhibitors back to popular fear, which was the old scheme? My second question concerns the consequences of the reasoning. When the Hagen Committee's position on bias was presented a few years ago, the Progress Party joined with other parties in order to spend five years correcting the bias and taking half of what was then the setting. When the government now decides to take it over two years, which is a fast pace compared to the Progress Party went in for that time, why aren't you on the same course now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e167	I'll try to spend as much time as possible. The TNF-inhibitors are to restore the Progress Party, because as long as you have a stressed hospital economy and there are no clear bindings on what kind of drugs you should actually have, there is reason to fear that hospitals can make a choice, not necessarily based on what the patient needs most, but based on the fact that, down to the level of the department, it can be a consequence of poor hospital economy that you have to give the cheapest preparation. That is a problem, and that is why we need to change the funding system. That's why the Progress Party wants both Tysabri, MS medicine, and TNF-inhibitors to be returned to the population and refunded within the blue recipe system, which is the best arrangement. Now, in terms of what's going on with bias, the whole point here is that the government has accepted that there's bias. Then it would be completely wrong to continue the distribution of bias one more year and say that you are sorry, you are less valuable than others in the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e176	Also in 2009, the Advance Party would reduce the alcohol charge by 670 million. kr. With its alcohol policy, which seeks Swedish alcohol taxes, beer sales around the clock, wine and alcohol in shops, alcohol advertising and a liberal gift policy, we will have a massive increase in alcohol-related problems, which not least health services and justice will notice. In Oslo, the City Council, resigned from the Right Party and the Advance Party, proposed a roster that was regularly slaughtered by the Oslo Police in the summer. I quote Vice President Roger Andresen: ‘Things indicate that the Nordics and the high availability of alcohol are a poor combination.’ Does not the Progress Party see the relationship between access to alcohol and the resulting health damage? And what preventive measures to combat alcohol consumption is the Progress Party considering?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e188	I think it might be okay if the representative Saxi reads his own budget position, because the Progress Party actually stands for exactly the same line as the government parties in terms of appropriations for prevention work also within the Ru area. In addition, The progress party went into the rush to launch a campaign aimed at just young people, considering how we're going to get young people to postpone their alcohol debuts and other things. When the representative Saxi here tries to attack the Progress Party, it is problematic that the government parties themselves are not even willing to say that these campaigns should continue. One is so afraid of being tied up that one will not even send a signal to those young people who do a lot of work to reduce alcohol consumption and get their debut age; one cannot support it. It is problematic, and the representative, Saxi, should go in his own right and assess it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e193	At the end of this, we saw that an attack can be the best defense when you don't have so much to defend. I have a question for the representative. In the general notes, there are actually two things that point to. It points to the need to take structural action in the area of health, and points out that the structural approach of the Progress Party to ensure a majority in terms of health reform has led to a very large cost increase. But the grip the Progress Party points to is very much the same grip as the health reform suggested: moving things up. They want to take responsibility for the municipalities and make it a state financial responsibility. My question to Nesvik is, does he think it'll be a better health care for people when it's moved further away from people? And how are you going to design a differentiated price? How can you find a system suitable for both Engerdal, Oslo, Volda, Ørsta – the whole country? I think it's an impossibility, it's going to create more bureaucracy, just like the health reform. Is that the answer: more government control, removers from people?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e202	Already today you get help based on your health status, also in the different municipalities. There is an assessment of your needs, wherever you live – whether you live in Oslo, Volda, Ørsta or Inner Hedmark. That is actually the case today. That is why one has to set the cost concept. As far as the representative Vedum refers to, that we want more of the same thing as the health reform, that's not right, it's just a reversal. It's part of the health reform that doesn't work, as the Progress Party says we have to do something about, among other things. the regional health enterprises, which have now developed into four health republics instead of bringing Norway together into a health realm, which was the very basic idea of the health reform. It hasn't worked in today's system, then we have to do something to change it. The Progress Party has also said that much more needs to be done outside the municipalities. We therefore welcomed the initiative of the Council of State to bring about an interaction reform. There is a need for that, we support it and look forward to its adoption. Then it is only the action of the Government that remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e211	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e215	It is said that no one reads our budget position. I believe that, after trying to read it continuously during the weekend. But for those who endure, it's really very interesting and concentrated about the main issues in the health care system in this setting. According to this judgment, attention has shifted from more money issues to major health policy challenges. It is perhaps because in the last few years the government has taken a great deal of action to get the basic structure of economic governance in place. A better investment regime has been put in place with new depreciation rules, giving at least DKK 1 billion more per year in investment funds. A solution has been put in place for the expenditure on pensions, which was out of control. A solution has been put in place for the bias distribution. And a solution has been put in place regarding the implementation of the escalation plan in psychiatry. All parties seem to take on board that the increase from SEK 54 billion in 2002 to DKK 103 billion in the next year's draft budget is so large that there are other main issues than those dealing with more money, we need to focus on now. It is also reflected in the budgetary options of the parties. If you ignore the Progress Party, left has the highest bid that proposes 500 million. kr more, i.e. approx. 0.5 pst. in relation to the corporate budgets, and to the right with 230 million. kr more, i.e. 0.25 pst. – while the Advance Party then stands in a separate class. You could perhaps be jokingly saying that whoever was going to form a health department from this budget position would not have a very complicated negotiating task. However, there are also major issues of a health policy nature addressed, where the Committee approaches matters in many ways on a common basis. In the last year’s budget debate and in the debate on the Minister of Health’s financial statement, the main issue here at Stortinget was the whole patient cycle – how to strengthen the coherence of the patient course from prevention to rehabilitation, so that fewer people become seriously ill and go to hospitals. Everyone agreed that it is a major problem that we in Norway are at the top of the world in terms of what we use on specialist health services per year. It includes, but is not there for first-line services and prevention. Perhaps that's why we're not at the top either in terms of quality and good resource use and health efficiency? It is not the first time the theme of strengthening the first line and prevention, etc. has been up. It lies in the so-called Leon principle, and it was in what is called the Wisløff Committee. But no matter how heavy this insight seems to us now, it's not time to give up, it's no alternative. The new Minister of Health, who, after a few days at work at the end of June, was in full swing with the interaction reform. He took a strong hold on the thought shared by a close-up magnification. It's very well expressed in several parties' notes. For example, I can refer to the Right notes on the s. 15 in the budgetary position, where the very essence of the cooperation reform is well expressed. The objection from the opposition when the Minister for Health launched the cooperation reform was: Should we wait until April, should nothing be done during this parliamentary term? The Minister for Health has not intended to wait until the ageing period to start action in line with the interaction reform. As early as Friday – and it was announced in the budget – it was presented how changes to the ISF scheme will be implemented from 1 January, taking into account not only what medical specialists are doing in hospitals, but also that nurses and psychologists can trigger the instinctive regime in hospitals, in the local medical centre, in the chronic care for coal, asthma, diabetes, MS patients, etc. The system will also be able to be used in light treatment and wound treatment outside hospitals, and investigations and outreach activities will be possible — at all — creating a better response in relation to lifestyle diseases, chronic care, etc. This is the core of measures The size has already been called for to strengthen the work in areas that could prevent the flow into hospitals and address patients in the past. I expect the Minister of Health to think in the same way in the future in the context of the interaction reform – that we should not wait for all the implementing measures until they have been fully addressed, but that strong individual measures such as this will be possible, only within a whole that the Storting is familiar with and supportive of. It is important to look at all aspects of the healthcare system that contribute to this spiral, with increasing numbers of people in hospital and increasing expenditure, as we continue to work on the interaction reform. I think you have to look at the fixed medical system, and that there you can add up to a funding that better stimulates to make the job the best possible in the first line, and that you don't do too much further directly to the hospitals. I think you have to look at good mechanisms to build up local medical centers or hospitals in both districts and neighbourhoods, among other things. with the funding of observation beds — so that not so many are sent to hospitals for security reasons — and financing rehabilitation measures. As far as rehabilitation is concerned, I think we have to admit that it has not yet been the great promise in this big time period. We in the government parties have agreed that rehabilitation must be part of this cooperation reform. I hope and believe that the ISF changes that were submitted on Friday, about what you can do in the first line, could also be used for rehabilitation measures. I believe that by changing the forms of financing for rehabilitation in one’s own enterprise – there are more details that need to be changed in terms of the treatment of rehabilitation in groups, day-care, etc. – could make rehabilitation a stronger part of the patient’s course. I also believe that what the Committee has said about the duration of agreements with voluntary and private organisations operating rehabilitation institutions will lead to stronger interaction and a better commitment to rehabilitation in the future. It is important to stress that the interaction reform is not just about drugs, it is about drug care, mental health protection, care for the elderly, etc. It is at the heart of the interaction reform itself that all diagnosis and parts of the health system must be seen in the context. That is why the joint comments and the joint approach to drug care – which the chairman of the committee was in front of me – are just about interaction in order to carry out patient courses until a successful outcome. Because this is about a major challenge, the Committee also agrees that a new commitment must be made when the escalation plan for care expires in 2010. The same applies to mental health. The Committee's wish for interaction is reflected in the setting. It may be in the case of mental health that the opposition is most critical, but at the same time the government parties and the opposition have many common comments. This applies, inter alia, to: a common proposal to address the needs for multidisciplinary mental health work in municipalities. Getting more psychologists in the municipalities and more psychologists in the school health service. There are schemes other than calling psychologists specialists using name lists. The number of dwellings needed in the field of mental health protection needs to be adjusted. The competence to accept demanding patients transferred from the specialist healthcare system. There are major tasks in the field of mental health protection that have been highlighted by both the National Audit Office, the Health Inspectorate, etc., as the Committee – the government parties together with the opposition – approaches in an offensive way in the suspension. The care plan, committed by the agreement on the elderly, is also about interaction. The provision of quality records to follow the course of patients and to obtain person-identifyable quality records in several areas is also about interaction. It also makes it possible to put ICT in place in health services, so that it can be used across all levels of government. Finally, I want us to warn ourselves against linking all the questions we are now dealing with in the healthcare system to the interaction reform. We must also pursue concrete policies. I believe we do that in this setting, both government parties and opposition. But the measures get more direction and coherence when we see them compared to the major reform that is completed in April.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e245	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e248	It was good that, at least in the last twenty seconds, people didn't talk about the interaction reform that's going to come, but they became a little more concrete, or they said they'd be more concrete in the future. I will at least raise two very specific questions to the representative, Mr Bøhler: the Soria Moria Declaration states that the excesses in the health care system should be reduced and kept at a low level. Since then, self-participation 1 has increased by 12 pst., the proportion of medical care has increased by 10.25 pst., and the same for psychologists and physiotherapy. How does the representative, Mr Bøhler, feel that these increases in the prostheses are in line with the Soria Moria declaration of the red-green parties? Question no. 2, which should be reasonably easy to answer: What is the comment of the representative of Bohemia that the Government is not doing anything at all to follow up the National Action Plan related to diabetes, except that it is passed on to the big groups of the red-green parties last year, namely support for the Diaphon? What is Bohemia's comment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e257	To the general comment on Nesvik, I would like to say that very many of the questions I raised in the budget position, which are related to the interaction reform, are very specific, whether in terms of drug addiction, mental health, elderly care or chronic care. So I thought that was an unnecessary comment. In the case of prostheses, the picture in this period is that we have removed the prostheses for 7-12-year-olds, we have removed the five-apple for physiotherapy, and we have lowered the prosthesis 2 by 1 000 kroner. As for what I was in the line change instead, the medicines that have been transferred to the health companies, you don't have any excesses. There have been price adjustments, and Nesvik will claim to be slightly out of line in some areas, but all in all, I would say that the picture in terms of promissory notes, in sum, is positive. The last question, about the diabetes plan, I'm going to go that far. In addition to Diafonen, which was mentioned, we also have the diabetes workshop and information activities to catch those who do not know that they have diabetes 2 yet, measures taken by the Government and continued in 2009. [[The President clubs.]] [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President Clubs Again]] These diabetes interventions go across all health businesses. It's not just a single amount.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e266	The president's in a Christmas mood, but there's a limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e269	The Labour Party has been criticised by users, professionals and organisations such as the Salvation Army for their lack of efforts for drug addicts. The proposed increase in next year's budget is far from sufficient to correct the two previous rather poor budgets in this area. 4 000 addicts are in line for treatment. The waiting time is very long, and it's increasing. Jan Bøhler appeared on the TV2 news on Thursday together with Harald T. Nesvik and launched a campaign package for addicts. I have not found any trace of this package of measures in the budget setting. The Workers' Party does not support the Right's proposal to increase the appropriations by 100 million. kr. On the other hand, we have found a reason to reduce the budget by 1.5 million. to finance funds for increased physical activity under the auspices of the Norwegian Sports Association. What is the content of the said package of measures? And do you think it right to cut the appropriations for addicts, who, according to Jan Bøhler on TV2, are in danger of death, in order to transfer the funds to the Norwegian Sports Association?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e280	Thank you for the question. The Committee agrees that there is a need for a strong escalation beyond what has been proposed for the following year. We are therefore in favour of a new commitment from 2010. The appropriations for care have increased by 700 million. kr in this period in relation to the government that represented the wage. However, an overall committee – both the Right and all the government parties – has merged to focus on the most vulnerable, namely those who die of overdose. A rusacout has been added to be established in 2009 to accommodate patients who have taken overdoses and to bring them into a continuous course of treatment. It will be a very great improvement for the most vulnerable patients. The same also means the increase in treatment in prisons, where unfortunately many of those who are addicted to drugs are in prison. And the same thing is going to be the investment in better back-up protection and housing in the municipalities. [[The President clubs.]] Given that we've been working towards a joint effort on a common track in the committee, I think there's a very negative representation the pay representative gives in his question, although there's still a lot to be done, that we're going to go into in the years to come. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e289	I am very afraid that we have to install a gear here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e292	I read in the setting from the government parties in the case of tenders that the government parties «satisfying the fact that the amendment to the regulation on government acquisitions opens up the possibility for regional health establishments to purchase specialist health services from certain private rehabilitation institutions without applying the procurement procedures laid down in Part III of the Acquisitions Regulation». So far, the government has said that the EEA rules prevent this, that the Ministry of Consumers and Administration needs some time, and that they are working on the matter. My question is, what change in regulation is what you're referring to, because I can't find anything that the government has made any change at this point? I also took it up at one of the committee meetings, but I really didn't get any feedback, either then or later. I think it's very good if there's been a change, but I can't figure it out myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e304	It is the view of the government parties that we need to come up with arrangements where we can get longer-term contracts, both in the area of rehabilitation and care, secure quality and be able to conclude agreements after negotiations, not only after tenders. Improvements have been made, especially with regard to child protection. There are changes out of consultation and there are changes that are now being discussed in the Government. So we have to get back to that. The Committee has come up with common comments on duration, although the opposition has made it concrete with 6 plus 2 plus 2 years, which we believe is a little concrete framework to set up already now. But the intention to create better conditions to build quality and build long-term sustainability for the partners we have in both the private and non-profit organisations, we share with the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e311	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e315	Let me first point out, in connection with my small exchange of lines with Jan Bøhler, that I perceived the answer to that, that the package of measures mentioned is the one that a unanimous committee has written into the vote. In that case, I think it is not appropriate practice for two parties to use the media to produce it as if it were these two parties who have submitted a package of measures. The budget debate is the annual opportunity to highlight the broad lines of health policy, describe the challenges we face, and outline the attempts of the parties to respond to these challenges. The first challenge is that health cows are growing quite sharply in today’s Norway. Under the current government, it has increased by a net of 35,000 patients. The figures for the second quarter of the current year show that there are 256,800 patients waiting for health care. Under the previous government, the queues were reduced by 85 000 patients. The waiting time has increased quite significantly for several patient groups, including for addicts who should have been given priority. In Health South-East, waiting time has increased by seven days. In Health Nord, drug addicts wait an average of four months for treatment. For a patient group called ‘indeterminate’ in the statistics, the waiting time has increased by 19 days from 2006 to 2008. At the same time, statistics show that there is an increasing variation between health enterprises as regards the right to provide the necessary health care and the number of deadlines. There's a variation of 8-22 pst, and there's nothing to suggest that this variation has anything to do with patients' need for help. The next point: Norway is the world leader in health money, and we only have medium-sized results to point to. Norway is the country that next after the United States spends the most money on health per year. the population. In a new European study, the Norwegian health system is ranked as No. 7, and we're ranked the worst country in the Nordic region. In a French study on the relationship between resource use and the effectiveness of healthcare, Norway is ranked last. We're in a situation where we're using more and more resources to save lives when they're hanging in a thin thread – that is, helping to survive – while we're exceptionally poor at providing help to live with the results of accidents and illness. We are developing a classed healthcare service in this country. An important reason for the increasing queues is the reduction in agreements with private operators, which, according to SAMDATA, was significantly reduced from 2006 – otherwise in line with the Soria Moria declaration. The sale of private health insurance has increased by 70 pst. Private hospitals report that they operate as many as before, but that an increasing proportion of patients now pay the bill themselves, because they are able to pay. Private drug institutions that have reduced the number of publicly funded places tell of despairing relatives who pledge houses and homes to fund a treatment site. I will briefly outline the solutions described in the budget statement. Firstly, the hospital crisis – the pressure on specialist health services with increasing health cows, large deficits and corridor Asiates – must be resolved outside hospitals. The Ministry of Health and Welfare's own figures show that patients could be saved for 400,000 lay-days per year if the health and care services in the municipality were better. Instead of depositing NOK 1 billion into the large drain of health care businesses, the right label EUR 400 million. kr to interaction measures, outreach health services, local hospitals and district medical centres. This will also help to support municipal health and care services. Decentralised outpatient health services contribute to improved accessibility, reduced travel and reduced transport costs. Transport costs are one of the most increasing items in today’s Norwegian health system. In addition, we increase the funding for care services in the municipalities by 250 million. to strengthen the quality and competence of the care service. This will include, inter alia: improving the quality of health care in hospitals, improving care efforts at the end of life, and improving the provision of young people with disabilities. The important thing is to make sure that those who get help to save their lives also get help to live on. The remaining 600 million. As the Government has proposed for increased activity, we are earmarking in our draft budget for rehabilitation, including drug treatment. It shall enhance the quality and capacity of the provision of rehabilitation services, also in order to speed up the return of those who are not ill-reported and who are therefore excluded from the scheme. It shall include, inter alia: is used to purchase free capacity in private drug establishments – 50 million. kr is earmarked for this – and in other private training institutions. Special focus on the provision of services to children and young people with drug problems, or living in families with drug problems, and/or having mental problems – also here we have earmarked 50 million. kr. This should ensure better assistance for these groups and at the same time prevent them from developing drug dependence or mental disorders themselves. In terms of quality of care: In order to enhance the quality and competence of municipal health and care services, we increase the appropriations by 250 million. kr. Within this, 46 MIU. to strengthen medical care in hospitals, through grants covering the difference between the salary of hospital doctors and hospital doctors. Qualification of unskilled: the proportion of unskilled in the care sector is between 35 and 40 pst. – skyrocketed across all other sectors of today’s Norwegian society. Strengthening research and professional development will contribute to increased recruitment, in particular by nurses. Our draft budget is intended to strengthen the vocational schools, the teaching homes and the educational home project. The provision of care at the end of life should also be strengthened, in particular in the municipalities, and in particular in enabling the development of new hospice services. We have recently had our own interpellation debate on the issue in Stortinget, where it was widely agreed that it is regrettable that the development of hospice services has stagnated in Norway over the last ten years. And then finally, we're assuming 50 million. kr to strengthen health centres, because health centres are one of the most important advanced posts in preventing serious disease development in the current Norwegian system. Finally, from the Right, we don't think it's a good idea to put in place a system of an annual hospital proposal, simply because it will reinforce the imbalance that there is now a broad consensus that we have in today's Norwegian health policy, between the specialist health service on the one hand and the rest of the healthcare system on the other. We think it's a completely wrong time to introduce such a scheme. What is needed today is to see the overall health care as a whole. What is needed is that we get higher on the track when it comes to catching up and preventing disease and suffering. Not only is the good social economy compared to doing repairs, but it also means that the population gets much better quality of life, and that we can release funds for other kinds of efforts. As I pointed out at the beginning, we are already world champions of money in health care. Now it's time we took the goal of becoming world champions when it comes to putting users in the center and ensuring quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e353	Is the salary going to include suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e356	It was a very useful reminder, President. I will address the one proposal on which the Right stands with the Christian People's Party and the Left. As far as I remember on the go, that's the only proposal that's my job to take up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e363	The representative of Inge Wohnning has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e368	I would like to ask the representative Wage how he sees that the company is going to handle the growth of activity in 2009, when the Right in its alternative budget takes the entire envelope that is set aside, slightly below NOK 1.1 billion, and disposes of it by distributing SEK 600 million. kr earmarked for rehabilitation and 400 mill. kr for interaction actions. In extending that, I would like to ask the representative, who is concerned with corporate reform and correctness in relation to the role of corporate governance, and that we should not conduct detailed management towards them, how it turns out that, in his comments to each healthcare company, the Right comes with a long list of measures to which health businesses want to spend this money, for example. for Health South-East: Skudsmotunet Hospital, Stensby Hospital, Romsås Short-Term Department, Aker and Ahus Lung Team, Visiting Age Geriatry at the Hospital Asker and Bærum, District Medical Centre in Valdres and Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, Intermediate Department Halden, Kristiansand and Arendal, etc. How does it relate to the fundamental relationship of wages with the corporate reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e375	I'm glad Boehler didn't try to quote all the sections. It could have been tiring both for him and the rest of the Stortinget. To the first question, we find it paradoxical that the Minister of Health, while on behalf of the Government, says that now is the time to shift the centre of gravity from the specialist health service to the other parts of the health service, suggests an unspecified billion increase to the hospitals. We have taken the consequences of the Minister of Health's premise and said that we believe that this increase should go to the highest priority objectives. It's, in my opinion, the task of Storting. And I can't see that the activity in the areas that we prioritise is of any minor importance. It's about activity anyway. The only question is which patient groups should benefit from the increased activity. That we have listed justifications for what we mean by strengthening the local function where patients live, I think in particular is exemplary. I think that other parties could also explain why they are proposing an increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e384	The right has a special love for commercial, private health care actors. Does the Right not see that increased privatisation leads to increased inequality and that many private hospitals can lead to the draining of the best medical resources, disproportionately high wages, unfair conditions of competition for the public and that there is a distortion in favor of the simplest diagnosis, while the heaviest patients risk waiting a long time? Why not also invest the money in the public health sector rather than support actors who want to make the most of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e391	The right has a special love for the health care users. And for users, it's probably of secondary importance if those who provide them with services have some kind of employment. The right considers that the capacity established in the private sector of healthcare should be fully exploited simply because it helps to provide more patients with help at the right time instead of spending long, long periods in meaningless waiting cows. On the right, there is no problem with the public purchaser paying treatment places in the private sector. But what happens under this government is a real privatisation in the real meaning of the word, that there are more and more in the public queue buying out by paying 100 pst. of his own wallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e400	The right was a strong helper and supporter for putting in place the health reform to Stoltenberg and securing a parliamentary majority for this in the Chamber together with the Progress Party. That was not what the party wanted in principle at the bottom, but it ensured that the reform was carried out. Today, we hear and read in the preamble that the Progress Party wants a new governmentisation of municipal health care and state funding responsibility for municipal health services. In the setting, the rightmost position is a completely different one. We've seen in the past that the Right has been involved in securing the majority of things the party is against. Can the representative guarantee that the Right will also, in the next period, take his view that if a new government would be based on cooperation with the Progress Party, the municipal health service will be ensured without government governance?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e409	I'm a little unsure about what the question really was. The questioner is of course right that the Right supported the hospital reform, correctly in a different version than what was the final result. The final result was due to an agreement between the Progress Party and the then minority government of the Workers' Party. It's the hospital reform that the Center Party has now been managing for three and a half years. We still believe that the hospital reform was correct, but as indicated by the suspension, we have found that it suffers from one serious weakness, namely that the ordering function and the execution function are not clearly separated. That's why we, together with the Progress Party, are in favour of finding a solution that separates these two functions in the future, because that's a condition for the proper functioning of the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e416	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e420	For the SV and the Government, it is essential to ensure a strong and well-developed public sector, a welfare state and a health service that takes responsibility for all citizens, regardless of the size of the wallet – a health system in which we pay according to our ability. Knowing that you are not left alone or left to the family if things go wrong gives you security. The welfare state has also given Norwegian women financial autonomy and completely different options than women had only a few decades ago, where care work, especially for the elderly in society, was based on family solutions, where women took responsibility unpaid. Getting good and inclusive health services jobs is absolutely necessary to get workers to work as far as possible. We are facing a change in the age composition of the Norwegian population in the coming years. This means that the number of people over the age of 67 will increase considerably. In 2010, 21 pst. the population is 67 years of age and older, by 2060 it will be 40 pst. the population is 67 years of age and older, according to the mid-term projections of the Statistical Centre. We therefore work to get more employees and to get more people to take training in health and care. We don't have a free health service in Norway. It costs us tens of billions a year. That's what I'm going to do. So we haven't invented a free hospital, as you often say. People who work there must have paid! When you leave the hospital, don't drag the Visa card or argue with your insurance company. The bill is already paid for you when you check out, through the tax. The medicine and the bed and people who work in the hospitals are paid by paying taxes. In Norway, this tax is paid according to your ability — not how sick you are. The idea of a health care system where we pay by ability is a good invention, because paying by ability through the tax code is both much fairer and much cheaper than a solution based on private insurance. Some people think that this scheme is bad. They don't say it directly, but it must be allowed to remind you that almost all the parties in this room at some point have supported the idea of price financing in healthcare. Unit price financing is about hospitals being paid per year. operation or per. diagnosis, prior to a basic allocation. Since unit prices are based on the average cost of treating a group of patients, the least complex patients will always have a tendency to be prioritised, simply because they are the cheapest to treat. It has therefore become a twist against the profitable patients at the expense of the unprofitable. The idea of price financing was that it would be more effective. It hasn't been. A fresh SV report states that: ‘With the introduction of unit-price financing and budgetary management under the Accounting Act, productivity and patient care should increase. In 10 years, hospital budgets have doubled, and the number of patients treated has increased. However, little evidence is available on the question of whether hospitals have become more effective. Researchers say that there is a tendency for both labour productivity and cost-effectiveness to fall. There are, however, indications that greed and opportunism have increased, and that hospital companies have become more concerned with operating the most profitable patients than thinking long-term and holistically. Hospital cows are growing, while not seriously ill patients are being treated more and more. Some private niche clinics have earned large sums of money by taking away large volumes of patients with easy diagnosis at high rates. All of this points in the opposite direction to increasing the profitability of society.’ I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Health has now announced a review of the organisation of hospitals and community health services in order to improve the interaction and thus ensure an overall patient history. It will be absolutely necessary to look at the funding system as part of this. It is SV who is concerned, and that is why I am pleased that the Minister of Health has now addressed this issue. In the context of the interaction reform, it is important to find legal, economic and organisational measures to turn resources into prevention. There is an extremely high level of health in mastering, in experiences, in art and culture and in community. People with serious diseases can get healthier if they are well in other ways. Rehabilitation is faster when you have a reason to recover. There is a strengthening of rehabilitation in this budget – an area that has long been a cross-political consensus in the Committee on Lifting. For SV, prevention is important, by focusing on children and young people, so that they become adults with faith in their own abilities and opportunities, with courage, ability and willingness to care and to participate in society, and at an early stage, by building interdisciplinary teams around health centres, so as to capture children and families with special needs early. SV also believes it is important to focus on drugfree arenas and good guidance and information work for young people, among other things. through the school health service and offers to psychologists. I want to spend the rest of my allocated time talking about the drug field and mental health services. Over 2,500 deaths of overdose have occurred in Norway in the last 10 years. I am therefore pleased that there is a cross-political consensus that there should be an emergency response for drug addicts, where those at risk of overdose can be brought in for detoxification and entered into a continuous treatment course. Overdose statistics are one of several signs showing that the drug field has been under-priority over several years. I am therefore pleased that the red-green government has lifted the drug field both through appropriations and also by putting the drug field on the agenda of the public debate. There is broad consensus in the Health and Care Committee that the measures in the escalation plan should contribute to better coherence in the provision of services and to a good follow-up and rehabilitation offer. In order to achieve this, it is essential that municipalities, together with non-governmental organisations, develop services providing housing, follow-up, rehabilitation, education and labour-oriented activities. At the same time, this is an area that needs to be further focused on through the interaction reform and new targeted initiatives in the coming years. A 2004 Fafo report shows that about 60 pst. Of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons, there are significant drug problems, often combined with drugrelated crime, and many are repeaters. The Committee and the entire Committee have agreed that it is important for the fight against both crime and drug dependence that these can be detoxified, treated and rehabilitated during settlement. SV is pleased to announce the addition of three to four new drug treatment settings in prisons in 2009 so that the supply is established in all regions. SV believes that those who are addicted to drugs need treatment and rehabilitation in the first place. Therefore, proper treatment needs to be provided, including: increased use of LAR and strengthening multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment. It is positive that the capacity of the LAR is now strengthened by 350 new patients. But it is also important to give a decent life for those who are unable to become drug free, among other things. through low-threshold services. SV is pleased that the injection room in Oslo, which was at risk of closure, was nevertheless continued after budgetary negotiations in Oslo. A number of objectives have been achieved and significant increases have been made in the assistance provision for people with mental health problems over the past ten years, but there are still significant challenges to be addressed. The appropriations in the escalating plan from 1999 to 2008 and the funds from the action plan will be continued in 2009. The earmarked funds for municipalities and health enterprises are now transferred as a framework grant. In order to ensure the escalation, it is of great importance that the funds be monitored from 2009 onwards through reporting by municipalities and regional health enterprises. SV sees that challenges remain both in the community health service and the specialist healthcare service before the objectives of the escalation plan have been achieved. Several studies show that people with severe mental health disorders are still among those with the weakest services in municipalities. The National Audit Office points out that the services interpret the prioritisation rules very differently. This means that many people who should get an offer, do not get it, while many who should get a discount are offered help. This means that resources do not go too far to those who need it most. This is serious. For this reason, we welcome the fact that the Health Directorate has now provided a national guide for the prioritisation of patients in mental health protection for adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e457	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e460	The government tried to introduce an increase in the proportion of physical therapy in 2006. It had to be removed after six months of major protests from the patients. The government has wanted to reduce costs and has now chosen to transfer more responsibility to the municipalities. I guess SV is also familiar with the lack of physiotherapists with agreements and long waiting lists as it is today, and that the consequences of the change that is now taking place are that the costs saved by the State will be transferred to patients – that is, another example of socialist health policy, where more and more people will have to pay themselves to get the necessary health services. Increased privatisation is the right word for it. That means that, in addition to the increases we've seen in proportion, we're now seeing a strong increase in self-payment. Does SV believe that it is realistic to believe that municipalities will ensure that patients’ rights are better fulfilled than today with the new funding system? And how will this be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e469	In the case of excesses, the SV would point out that the introduction of a roof 2 scheme, combined with better child protection rights and minor adjustments to the self-interest for roof 1 scheme, has resulted in far more than in the past being able to benefit from the protection systems for the protruding components of the health care system. However, SV has noticed a certain increase in self-employed persons 1 and self-employed persons 2 for 2009. We will stress the importance of keeping excesses at a low level, because the excesses have an impact on social health differences, as the representative points out. But at the same time, we have to say that the increase we have, and the bet on excesses that have occurred in recent years, are formidable in many areas, so we're going to keep going. But we also see that it may turn out a little unlucky, so SV is open to you to see if you need to take a full review of the facts, not only in the specialist health service, but also in the community health service, to make sure that it is not the weakest ones that are being burdened the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e476	In these times of financial crisis, the Minister of Finance, who is also the party leader in SV, has repeatedly gone out and asked banking customers to use their consumer power. Those who are dissatisfied with interest rates and other services should change banks, says the Minister of Finance. It is, in our opinion, a good advice, but we do believe that freedom of choice should also apply in more important areas than private economy and banking relations. The right has been a driver for transferring power from the health care system to the individual user. In Oslo, we have given young people and older people who need care services the right to choose who should help them, and the right to exchange when they are dissatisfied. However, in relation to issues as important as care services, SV is opposed to freedom of choice. SV has insisted on the free choice of home and hospital facilities. My question is: Why won't SV give help-trafficking the same freedom as bank customers to exchange services with which they are dissatisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e485	We are faced with a formidable age change in the population, which I also pointed out in my post. This means that we will need an amazing number of new hands in the care services in the municipalities. That means that we need a qualitatively good health and care service, which can actually do the jobs you're facing in the future. It is therefore important to have high quality health and care workers. We need a lot more people who can do these jobs. This is why the overall challenge is to get many more educated to enter these jobs, while at the same time getting those who are there to stand longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e490	The representative Saxi didn't mention dental health in his post, and that might be understandable. What we're seeing now is that SV is in favour of a comprehensive dental reform in its next party program, i.e. for the next majority period. I mean to remember that SV was also very high on the track before this pouring period with promises of free dental treatment. I record that SV promised a lot before this ageing period, and that they promise a lot after this ageing period when it concerns dental health. With SV in government, little has happened. My question is: is SV proud of what the party has done with regard to dental health while they have a seat in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e505	Dental health is still a very important field of activity for SV. We also follow up that matter in the Government, but also the representative from the Left knows that sitting in the government is about giving and taking. We also know that when it comes to dental care, it's a huge boost, not least economically, so it has to be an overall priority from more people if you're going to get an impact on this. But SV is very clear that this is one of the big bets we see for ourselves in the time that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e510	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e513	Equivalent health care to everyone is one of the general principles on which we build our health service. Unfortunately, the report from the National Audit Office, which was presented recently, shows that this is not the case for people with mental illness. There are different offers depending on where you live in the country. I think all the parties take this seriously. We also know from studies from SINTEF that the use of coercive measures to treat mental illness varies, depending on where you live in the country. And then we know that 40 pst. of the patients who are subject to coercion are people who do not have their own housing. Many have less education and lower income compared to those undergoing voluntary treatment. In other words, health services are provided depending on their place of residence and social affiliation. It has to change. Such findings show that better health care priorities and better governance need to be put in place. In response to the Riksrevision report on the health provision of mentally ill people, the Secretary-General of the Mental Health Council, Bjørn Lydersen, stated that this is a historic defeat for health policy. He further states: ‘Now it must be at the end of the time when health policy-makers and bureaucrats produce only guides and guidance to this part of health care. For eight years, a total of Storing and Health Ministers from several governments have seen that many of the objectives of the Plan of Action have not been achieved and have allowed specialist health professionals to take care of themselves». He now believes that it is important that the central health authorities and the management of regional health establishments take a tight line with the specialist health service in order to achieve the objectives of the escalation plan. In my opinion, this is a very important input. Earlier this year, the Christian People's Party, together with the Left, has called for measures to be taken to ensure that health professionals in areas where there is a great deal of coercion need to learn from health professionals in areas where there is little coercion. Actually, a lot has happened here. In the Government’s proposals for the State budget, measures are lacking to address the need for housing for people with mental health problems. About 2 800 dwellings in addition to the mental health escalation plan have already been estimated. The Sintef report, which I mentioned instead, shows that patients who have their own housing do not have suitable housing, or the housing situation is not satisfactory. Many people need more help and supervision in the home than they do. The group consists of serious and often long-term ill people. Only this need shows that the Government’s estimate of 1000 places, which is intended to meet the needs of all groups for housing, including nursing homes, is far too low. In this number there are also conversions to dementia places. Therefore, the Christian People's Party proposed in its alternative budget that a grant of 3000 posts should be granted. Furthermore, with great concern, I have to say that the earmarking of funds for mental health, both to hospitals and to the municipalities, with the exception of the big cities, which were modified during the consideration of the budget by the Municipal Committee, ceases. I'm afraid it's not enough that the Council of State hopes these funds will still go to mental health. When there is so much left, such as, for example, The National Auditor's report shows, still designating is the only right thing, believes the Christian People's Party. Let me take an example of what is about to happen now with the municipal budgets around the country, from a municipality in my own county, Osterøy municipality. There are now proposals for major cuts in mental health in 2009. Politicians are concerned, and many municipalities express the desire to retain the earmarked funds. So over to another field that the Christian People's Party is occupied with, namely, abusing. It is unacceptable that drug addicts are in line for treatment while there are vacancies in ideal drug institutions. The Christian People's Party proposes in its alternative budget to increase support for drug institutions by 50 million. kr. The government's tendering policy – which I find today is changing in a positive direction – framework and has affected institutions that are an important complement and corrective to public treatment provision. Several people who did not reach a new agreement with Health South-East in the 2008 bidding round are now fighting to survive. Several have had to reduce or phase out. It's also about psychiatry institutions. Important knowledge and competences have been lost. It hits patients first and foremost. I hope that changes here quickly come within parts other than child protection, which I believe have already been changed. The Christian People's Party believes that, within today's legislation, it is possible to pursue a different policy within the framework of tender law vis-à-vis non-profit institutions. It is also important to maintain drug institutions and others that do not have agreements with regional health establishments. When the Government has now said that they are to evaluate these measures, it is essential that the institutions concerned are able to make their contributions, including: the many powerful institutions, the Gospel Center and the Salvation Army, to name a few. Furthermore, treatment needs to be more coherent, from detoxification to treatment and follow-up. Among people undergoing drug treatment — LAR patients — we note that, unfortunately, interventions other than drugs are not available in the way for many, including those in treatment. social measures as an appropriate place to live, such as leisure activities such as: The Blue Cross and the Salvation Army operate, and network construction. The government should be betting on getting this in place, and I think one should scrape the journey to Switzerland right now. Heroin on prescription is for several reasons the wrong way to go. The goal of the drug treatment, as we have said many times, is the freedom of the drug, and that is the belief that it is possible, and thus the belief in the individual, who must control the treatment. Taking more drugs into treatment now will be a wrong signal. We see that medically assisted rehabilitation does not work after intention. Why should we start with another drug when we don't even do what we're doing, all right? In the debate on the matter, it emerged that the research results of Switzerland, Germany, England and the Netherlands show a modest improvement for a relatively small group of drug addicts. It is likely that drug addicts with long and heavy use will not be able to follow up such treatment, says some professionals. It has also been stated by one of the researchers at the State Institute for Drug Research that those who have received heroin on prescription do not have a lower mortality rate than those who have received other treatments and that crime has not been reduced by the measure. Some of those who are now taking heroin on prescription say that heroin is less dependent than methadone and can therefore be used. In my opinion, this is to put the arguments a little bit on the head, because if heroin gives less dependence, it has to be easier to stop it. Then these people must be given alternative follow-up and complete treatment as soon as possible. Then there's really hope for them. Starting with heroin use from healthcare will be very expensive. It is better first to sort out the measures we have, and make sure that those who need treatment and other follow-up get it. The Council of State is calling for an interaction reform. The Christian People's Party believes that there is an important reform, and that it is high time that we did this. Not least for a long time, we have called for changes in the funding system. A level-shared healthcare service is disruptive and uncoordinated treatment, and there are few incentives to prevent disease or harm. A better health provision for people with chronic disorders must also be ensured. Today there has been a rehabilitation operation outside Stortinget. In several budget debates, the whole of Stortinget has pointed out that rehabilitation must be the next major field of activity. It'll be a win-win situation for both patients and society if we can take this force together. We are very disappointed that nothing has happened in this area in the three years that this government has been sitting on. We also have to make sure that it is given rehabilitation, and not just on the basis of a line of work. There are people who actually need it, even though they may never get into work. Finally, I hope the Health Minister heard what I said, even though he spoke quite loudly with some others. I take up the proposals that the Christian People's Party has alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e566	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e572	I want to ask the representative Davøy if she is not very satisfied with the Government that is now able to rectify the imbalance between health companies in good time before what was actually planned by the previous government. This has been a very burning matter in the area from which the representative Davøy comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e582	Thank you for the question. I can say that I'm pleased that you're finally correcting the bias. Personally – I come from Health West – I would have wanted this to happen much faster. What I wanted was that we had managed to straighten out the whole division right away. Nevertheless, I note that the regions that have had this division have said that they are reasonably satisfied with what has now happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e589	I can join very much of what the representative Davøy said in his post. In the setting we see that the Christian People's Party follows many of the same lines as the Center Party, the Working Party and the SV, but with slightly different roles, so that you go something different. There is one field that the representative spoke about, which is very important. It's a rush. One theme in the field of intoxication that the representative spoke a little about is alcohol. It's the largest and most common drug we have. In my opinion, unfortunately, the Christian People's Party still says that they want to cooperate with the right-hand side of politics. If we look in the hall here, both the Left, Right and Advance Party are on a completely different planet in terms of alcohol policy, than the red-green and Christian People's Party is all about. Is it not a paradox for the representative, Mr Davøy, to go to the elections to cooperate with the right-hand side of the policy, when we see that it might help to liberalise and release the worst of all drugs in Norwegian public opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e598	If the representative has perceived it there that the Christian People's Party should go to the elections to the right in politics, he knows more than this representative actually knows about the Christian People's Party's ideas against the elections. So it's kind of taking a good look at it. I would like to refer to one of the comments that the opposition, other than the Advance Party, has together, which is very good in relation to alcohol policy and prevention. Otherwise the Christian People's Party will fight to reduce alcohol consumption. We want to take far stronger measures than this government has been in the vicinity of proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e605	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e608	The world is moving forward, and life expectancy is going up in Norway. Life expectancy has increased almost without exception in the last two hundred years, and the trend continues. According to Statistics Central Bureau, as a boy born in 1971, will live for 71 years, while a boy born in 2005 will live for about a year. 77 years. So even the boys live longer, and good it is. The generation of happiness, the ones born in the Russians after World War II, is now on the full path into the ranks of the retired. With age, more health problems, health problems and diseases are rapidly following us today, thanks to medical advances, much more capable of being treated — fortunately. More and more will in the years to come, be so lucky to get older, and the health problems that people get, we will have more and more opportunity to solve. The fact that health budgets are increasing is actually in many ways a positive thing. People live longer. We're dealing with more, and no one's sorry about that. But one main question is, could people have an even better life if we spend less on health, if we spend the money better, if we use the money to prevent disease instead of repairing disease, and if we spend the money locally instead of centrally? I think so. But regardless of whether we do a spin-off – where we go from repair to prevention, where we go from treating everyone in a hospital to getting treatment at home – we will need a moderate growth in hospital appropriations, precisely on the basis that we are getting more and more older in this country. It is a solid health budget for the hospitals that we are treating today. The economy of health enterprises is strengthened by nearly DKK 6.5 billion, DKK 6.5 billion in addition to the rise in wages and prices. The increased framework will allow for an activity growth in 2009 as well. Russ and mental health are becoming more important than somatic health. That's good. With the growth that has taken place, the framework for operating hospitals with a good economic balance should be present. For the Central Party, it's a primary goal that no matter where you live, or what economy you have, you have to have equivalent health care. This is why the effort to balance the differences between health regions is made by adding 600 million. kr so important. During a two-year period, all health regions shall have equivalent opportunities to make good offers. The need for people wherever they live to feel secure for their hospital services is vital. The Soria Moria statement stated that no local hospital was to be closed. This clear objective has been very important. The government has demonstrated through its governance document that it sees it as a national goal to have good local hospitals around the country. I'm brand new as vice president of the Health Committee. Until the fall session, I sat in the Municipal and Administrative Committee. Everything is related to everything in this world. In the Municipal and Administrative Committee, we had one main objective, and it was to strengthen local welfare through increased allocations to municipalities. Through strong increases in appropriations over the last three years, there were particularly two things we promised. It was kindergarten, and it was health. Full child care coverage is almost in place, and figures from the Statistical Centre show that municipalities have really prioritised health and care – together with 11,000 annual works during 2006 and 2007, i.e. a massive increase. Local welfare and community investment deliver results. The local politicians take responsibility, and they do the job. To achieve the goal of going from repair to prevention, I am convinced that it is the local health work that needs to be strengthened. 70 pst. patients receive their treatment with their doctor or local authority. It's the local health service that people meet. Ensuring good local health and medical care is essential for the control of health costs. In 2002, there were 4,150 playgrounds in the municipalities. In 2007, it was 4,400. That's a growth of 250. There were 1,840 more doctors in the specialist health service in the same period. It's a very disparate relationship with where the growth comes, and it's in the specialist health care, the healthcare that's removed from people, and most expensive. The goal of the Central Party and the Government is to reverse this trend, because with the age structure we have in the population, we should provide more health services where people live. We shouldn't build on a system where the patient always has to move according to competence. Competence should be moved where the patient is. For the Central Party, the interaction reform is a decentralisation reform, a reform that will help to strengthen local health care, so that people get a better offer in their local environment. If we do that, the offer will be both better and cheaper. In other words, a primary objective must be to strengthen local health work and get into a history of disease and through the strengthening of school health services, better medical coverage and a general public health policy locally to help more people stay healthy. By investing in local public health work at all stages through school and health centre, by ensuring that we put in place playgrounds, sports, walking and cycling routes, by being able to think completely in a local health course and get in place more doctors and also specialised health professionals locally, people will get better health. It's cheap, and it's wise, to use public funds in the municipality, near where people live, instead of later in the course of disease far from where people live. It's not just the municipality and state of Norway. The third sector, non-profit institutions serving households, represents a third and very important step in the wider health field. During the Committee's examination, we have re-prioritised funds to those activities where many volunteers contribute. We haven't allowed the big funds, but a few million to a non-profit enterprise triggers an incredible number of hard work hours, like the Church's SOS, which unfortunately has high seasons now at Christmas, the Church's Social Service, which takes care of people who often have drug problems, sports federations, who are going to work with widespread prevention, LHL, which has the coal line, and many more, to which we have granted small sums, but which trigger so much more. The fact that we have managed to raise these businesses and organisations in the budget is also a clear political signal that it is in the interaction between the ideal and the public we find many good solutions. If we are to solve the health challenges, go from repair to prevention, we need to bet locally, and we need to play with associations and voluntary sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e634	In the budget setting, the government has proposed to earmark funds for prisoners in prison, with a view to providing prisoners with the same health care as all others. The Progress Party fully supports this, and we support such a designation. Earmarking can be a good way to go in relation to prioritising a health problem. But if the government thinks earmarking is the right way to go, why haven't funds been earmarked for areas like psychiatry, rehabilitation and care for the elderly, from a health perspective? Or is it that the health problems on the outside of the walls are less than they are on the inside?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e641	Putting prisons and older people up against each other is a simple comparison. The world is not that simple. The most important promise we have made, for example: for the care of the elderly, we have given up on a further 28 billion kroner in income for the municipal sector. This has led to 11,000 annual works. Are state solutions best? One of the themes of today's debate is whether the health care system has improved by our government making it. It might not have just gotten better. There's a lot of local knowledge if we give funds to people locally. It has been shown by municipalities both through kindergarten reform and through the use of earmarked funds. We're going to label the bet when we're going to a new level. As a result, the Government is now using more funds to build care homes, elderly centres and nursing homes. Just as one did in psychiatry, one ear-marks in an escalation phase, and then the municipality takes responsibility and perhaps contributes even more to raising the common challenges we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e652	The centre party has declared itself to be a champion of the districts and of good health care, as we have heard. With the Central Party in government, agreements with training institutions in the districts have been cut off at 57 300 treatment days, according to the department’s own figures. It has, among other things, has affected Nord-Norges Kurbad, Skogli Health and Rehabilitation Centre in Oppland, Tonsåsen in Uppland, the Atfangscenter in Rauland, Beitosølen Health Sports Centre and Valnesfjord Health Sports Centre, Valdresklinikken in Oppland, among others, because they have been assessed as being too uncentered for the treatment of drug addicts. For addicts and their relatives in the Aurland region, Oslo is not necessarily easier to access or better to offer. According to the assessment of good health and good district policy by the Centre Party, is it possible to set up high-quality rehabilitation sites and drug treatment sites in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e662	For me, it is impossible to go in and comment on each and every rehabilitation site – no matter what kind of rehabilitation it is – whether it is good or bad. The main objective of the Centre Party in all policies is that the patient/user should be at the centre, and then we need to have good quality assurance systems to ensure that we get the very best treatment. Whether the institution should be in Oslo or in my constituency, Hedmark, is not the most important thing. The most important thing is that people get the best possible offer. The government and the red-green majority of the Stortinget have been concerned about trying to get the most rehabilitation possible and seeing it in conjunction with the overall health care, so it should not be an isolated island. I think that is a sensible policy. The main thing for us is that the patient/user should get the best possible offer, and then a find system that makes it safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e671	Amathea gets several million dollars less in support next year. Even the organisation feels this as dramatic. The provision of advice and guidance to women and some people to talk to in a difficult situation is getting worse next year. An overall increase agrees to reduce the number of abortions in Norway, and we are waiting for a new action plan from the Government in this area as well. How can we achieve this goal without a strong Amathea, and how can the Central Party help to ensure that an important offer for women who need society to set up is weakened in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e678	There is no doubt that Amathea is doing an important job, and as I said in my post, the Center Party and the other government parties are committed to supporting up to voluntary activity. We have done that very much in the setting, by lifting up voluntary activities. In the case of Amathea, a report considers that the funds can be used more effectively and at the same time have the job done, help girls who have come into such a situation and give good advice. I am pleased that the financial position has ensured business in relation to VAT refund, so that the plan did not disappear. It is therefore with the background in the reports that have come that an adjustment has been made. But at least it has been ensured through the financial position, and we will then be given a continuous assessment of whether Amathea has sufficient frameworks to run a good business.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e685	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e688	The budget we are discussing today is worth $131 billion. There's a lot of money, but the Left still thinks that more money could be directed at those who need it the most. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the Left proposes to redeploy 1 billion dollars to the rest of the world. nursing care, free dental treatment for delayed groups, rehabilitation and the strengthening of health care services. In practice, this is a commitment to prevention and rehabilitation/rescue protection. The left believes that our draft budget shows an important direction, and that it makes an important difference to those debts. I now want to talk about a group that has been dealing with our country for too much time – several have been involved, but I want to focus heavily on it – simply drug addicts. Six months ago, the Storting debated a proposal from the Left to facilitate a pilot project that would determine the specific competence and interest of Ruspacers to distribute free possession of medical treatment, corresponding to Subutex, Subuxone, etc. The proposal was lowered, among others. of the party of government. But today, exactly half a year later, the government has turned around and is in favour of the proposal. I just have to say that in this case there has been a very happy development during the budgetary procedure. The left may be a premiscuous provider of good proposals for which the government party first votes in favour, but for which they later go in, as long as there is a better supply for those addicted to the drug. Because what counts is actually action. Another important proposal, such as the Left, was put forward on 9 June this year, and the government party voted down, was the establishment of the so-called Stockholm model, i.e. that, within 24 hours of detoxification, detoxification should be given an hour to outpatient or other treatment. This period is found to be very critical of the newly detoxified person. The point is that after detoxification, it is very vulnerable, and only small doses of alcohol immediately after detoxification can be life-threatening. That's why this first period right after acute detoxification is so important and so critical. The left is disappointed that the government does not focus more on the rehabilitation of chroniclers and addicts. Lack of rehabilitation simply means that many people perish at too early an age. Of the billions that I call initiation, and as the Left wants to give priority to those who need it the most, about half are bets on increased rehabilitation and interventions for addicts – 250 million. SEK for increased rehabilitation and 205 million. to better care for the elderly. The left-hand side also wants to rethink when it comes to dental treatment. We think it's unimaginable that dental treatment is separate from other medical treatments. Bad dental health is socially stigmatizing and causes great pain. Bad dental health can also be a contributing cause of cardiac and mania. But those who come out worse here, too, are the weakest, for example. drug users. But also other poor labor seriously to be able to prioritize own dental health due to poor economics. Left wants a gradual transition to a public reimbursement scheme to prioritise deferred groups. In our alternative budget, we've seen 150 million. kr to increase public funding of the costs of these groups. I've previously said that the Left believes in increased bets on prevention. This is not least important to the growing family. Health oysters are a good, preventive and socio-economical way of providing health advice and services to young people. Many young people today have problems with their own body images and the need for advice and guidance through youth. There are many young people who are struggling with mental problems and who should be met at the lowest possible level before the health care system. Health care services capture many problem settings through the trust relationship that is established with young people and that other parts of health services often do not. The health care provider and the health care service have great potential to operate the outreach activity entirely from the infant stage and thus have the opportunity to apply relief measures at an early stage, before serious problems develop. In the left's alternative budget, we're strengthening the health oyster service by 50 million. kr. To the left, we need to rotate from specialist treatment to low-threshold treatment. Then more attention needs to be paid to prevention. The notified interaction reform will not be closed without further preventive action. Otherwise, I would like to make it clear that the Left is looking forward to the proposal for interaction reform between all levels before the health service is presented. The left agrees to focus on interaction, so that one, as far as possible, can avoid hospital entry. But here, there has to be a resource redistribution from the specialist services to the primary services. In particular, there needs to be a proper commitment to better health care and medical care in hospitals. I think everyone needs to understand more about the realities we have in the hospitals today. An investigation by the Bergen Red Cross Hospital showed that the average age of patients was 85.6 years, and that each patient had an average of seven different diagnoses. We probably have parents that can be that old, but most of them may be gone when they're 85.6 years old. But it tells us that hospitals need both more medical resources and, not least, health care resources. Before the specialist consulting service, today more and more advanced technologies are being used. The new technology is, of course, positive in terms of the cure of disease and that life can be extended. However, new and advanced technologies are often very expensive. The result is a question of how new, advanced and costly treatment should be prioritised in the light of other treatment needs. I have registered that the health director has been on the path in this priority dilemma. I think this is a problem which should also be discussed in this Chamber. Not least, we need such a discussion in connection with the fact that there is still a complaintable treatment within what I would call basic services. I will show you, among other things: to what has previously been mentioned in this debate, namely the Riksrevision's very critical report on the supply of adults with mental problems. We know that the use of coercion within Norwegian mental health protection is too high. Before care for the elderly, we also have many examples of unworthy treatment for the elderly. We know that there are serious violations of many older people's dishes on hospitals, and that older people are also in some cases subjected to coercion. The reason for this is often low staffing, but also lack of knowledge. Tomorrow, 10 December, human rights will be 60 years old. Understanding human rights needs to be given a greater place in the training and education of all health professionals. But this is also a leadership issue and a social policy issue. The left in our proposal for a reduced use of coercion in psychiatry, as well as a proposal where the Left, together with the Christian People's Party, asked the Government to facilitate the development of educational material focusing on human rights, for use by health professionals in the care of demented persons, mentally retarded persons and mentally ill people. During the debate in Stortinget on 19 June this year, final proposals were made for a transmission proposal. The reason was that all the parties in this room expressed a positive opinion on this proposal. I perceive a mass increase so that the Left's proposal was considered important, and I would therefore like to ask the Council of State at the end of the day about the status of this transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e721	The representative talked a lot about care, and for the Workers' Party, care for the elderly on many fronts. When the Left is looking for voluntary action and often says that non-governmental organisations get a lot of the money that is being allocated, it's going to be a contradiction to what we see in the budget. Here the left selects to cut in the cultural spa, just based on volunteering, to create a culture for the elderly, put in a system, which offers an offer to many and something to live for – a joy in everyday life. There's a lot of good care in culture. What does the Left actually mean by cutting the cultural spaser stick by 10 million. kr, and what does the Left choose instead of direct action for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e728	I'm very busy that the elderly in hospitals and the rest of those who are at home have a good range of activities. I think that it has to come primarily through the municipal budgets. Local authorities are responsible for providing good business services to patients at the hospital, and they must also be able to offer them to the elderly in other ways. Such token money, like those associated with this famous stick, often called the culture stick, in my view, becomes just a little bit of a comical thing. I think that we should rather be serious and look at what the hospitals do, look at what the old people around the municipalities do, and then we have to support those who have been doing this for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e735	It's probably a little bit different what we think of as comical here in the hall. I have a follow-up to the previous line. The representative said it was funny with the cultural spaser stick. Does he also feel that the cultural school bag is comical? The cultural walking stick is a follow-up to the cultural school bag that first came to primary school, and now has been extended to secondary school, which allows you to get out professional art, first to children and young people, and then to high school students. Therefore, the Government has increased the funds. So one has seen that it's been a huge success, it's been so popular in schools and institutions around the country that you thought that this was going to make the jam older also enjoy, getting professional art and culture into their everyday lives. Does the representative Ludvigsen think it is still comical – to give art and culture to children and young people in the first place, and so that older people will also have the same joy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e746	I think I'm going to say it so that the Left is at least not a party that is opposed to culture, not for children, young people, adults or the elderly. We're going to help give cultural experiences to the whole flock, at all levels. And I think everyone knows that the Left is such a party. When I used the word "comic," it might seem pretty comical, but what's my point here is that the cultural spaser stick becomes a symbol. That's not what's most important. I think that the most important thing for all groups, not least the elderly, that we're talking about now, is that they're going to have activity, they're going to have experiences where they live, and they're going to live in hospitals, and they're going to live at home. We have to be able to solve it without creating such symbol solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e753	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e757	I think I'm going to start my contribution to the budget debate that most health ministers have done before me: the government's proposal for the health and care budget is the best one ever. The overall draft budget for my department is over NOK 130 billion, and I have no doubt that it will give the sector a big boost. But I'm painfully aware that it doesn't just keep giving increased appropriations. Even with the greatest health budget of our time, we still have major challenges in Health-Norway – challenges that have been there through all the major health reforms and all the budgetary records we have put under various governments in the last 10–15 years. In order for the expansion to have some effect, we don't just have to do more, we also have to do it differently. I will bring forward the six areas of activity I see as the most important: prevention of health work, hospitals, care services, the drug field, mental health and rehabilitation. To take prevention first: this is where all health work must begin. I am pleased that the Health and Care Committee has found room for a special focus on physical activity directed by the voluntary sector. We know that preventing disease is a profitable investment both for society and for individuals. The Committee's proposals are entirely in line with my own position. The most important thing I can do for my health is get me out of the 'go' chair and touch me. I agree with the Committee that the sport movement is, in the first instance, the right address for this grant. In addition, we are working with a new, major health reform – the interaction reform – as among others. will enable the municipalities to prevent better, so that we need to repair less. I'll come back to this later. The government is following up its promises to strengthen the hospital economy. Several patients should be treated, and waiting times should be kept down. We are proposing to increase the funds for hospitals by DKK 6.5 billion compared to the 2008 budget. We provide 1.5 pst. activity growth. It is important to stress that this will include all patient treatment — somatics, mental health protection, drug treatment and rehabilitation. And then we add 500 million. kr to facilitate the migration challenges for hospitals. We propose to correct imbalances between health regions. We're doing this so that Health Mid-Norway, Health North and Health West together get $12 billion extra in 2009 and 2010, while we don't cut off the funds for Health South-East. We propose to cover increased pension costs in healthcare companies and private health institutions by DKK 3.9 billion and a long-term approach to tackling this. Operational credits raised by regional health establishments in private banks are converted into operational credit in the country and all future changes to the credit framework are to be included in the government budget – and treated by the Stortinget. The government follows up the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party on the follow-up to the Health Plan 2015, with a strengthening of 235 million. kr. We are proposing a commitment to 1 000 new health homes and nursing homes, with a total state allocation of approximately 500 million. kr over the next four years. We're proposing another 55 million. to various care services, with a high focus on education, education and knowledge. In addition, the growth of free revenues for municipalities in 2009 should allow for the launch of day-to-day activities for dentures. People with drug problems are the stepchild of health care – I stand by that. The escalating plan for the drug field should continue with increased strength. The government is proposing to strengthen the field by 300 million. kr. Nearly half of this is proposed to increase the treatment capacity of specialist healthcare. Drug addicts shall be offered more fully the assistance they need and the right to. At the same time, the prevention of drugs must be strengthened. I'm very pleased with the one that comes to terms in the setting, about further betting on the rake field. In 2007, we spent over 20 billion kroner on mental health work in municipalities and health businesses. There are twice as many people with mental health disorders who are assisted by specialist health services this year, compared with 1998. Mental health work has been reinforced by nearly 10,000 new annual works. More than 3,000 of these are in district psychiatric centres. We now have 75 district psychiatric centers all over the country. Services are built up in all the municipalities. These include housing, employment, school and work activities and cultural activities as well as treatment and follow-up. There is a particular effort to build a solid low-threshold service in municipalities. However, there is no doubt that we still have major challenges with availability, competence and coordination of mental health services. That is why I am now actively following up the criticisms made in the National Audit Office's reports on the offer to both adults and children in mental health protection. Many of those with, or at risk of, mental health problems, drug problems, dementia, diabetes, coal and other chronic diseases are losers in today’s health system. They do not receive the services they require, not least because they need long-term close follow-up. I have asked for answers as to why it fails in the transitions between services and what is needed for patients to get proper help at the right level at the right time. Yes, we must strengthen the work of rehabilitation. It's primarily about a complete patient history. The patient must be rehabilitated in a health service that interacts. It becomes increasingly clear to me that the forthcoming reform will be a community health service reform. We need to do something quickly to strengthen primary health services and develop comprehensive services through all stages of the service. This is about system errors. If a municipality today relies on prevention and good solutions to keep people away from hospitals, it is a clean expense for the municipality. If the municipality closes its eyes to wise solutions, they save money. The government takes the bill when people need hospitals. We use enormous sums to repair disease instead of preventing them from occurring. There are more than 11,000 doctors in the specialist health service and about 4,400 in the municipalities, when we count on regulars and local councillors. When we know that 90 pst. Of all consultations taking place in the primary health service, it goes without saying that we need to assess whether the resources – both money and personnel – are properly distributed. We need to look at how the future growth of the budgets is to be distributed in order to obtain good competence, high quality and sufficient capacity in which the patient first seeks help – in the municipality. In April 2009, I will present a proposal for an interaction reform. It shall respond to the financial and legal changes needed to achieve good interaction in all parts of healthcare for the benefit of patients. We're going to get ahead with putting in place national ICT solutions. In particular, I would like to stress that common electronic patient records are being used everywhere, whether the patient is receiving help in primary health care, in specialist health care or for rehabilitation. I have notified that I will try to get a significant clean-up in Health-Norway, and that it will be demanding. While injecting more money, we warn structural interventions to ensure that the total amount of health money is used for the benefit of patients. Here in Norway, we have the best prerequisites for achieving the goals we have set ourselves, and I believe that we are in the process of clearing well together.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e797	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e800	I will start by giving tribute to the Minister of Health and Care for what we got acquainted with through the media on Friday, that effort-driven funding for services provided outside the hospitals will now be possible. I think that's a very good initiative, and I look forward to the way this is being used. However, there is a problem that we see out in the municipalities: in today's VG Net we can read about Borghild in 95 years who now lives in the meeting room, and have done so for almost three months. At the same time, we are in the midst of a financial crisis that has caused a real blow, especially in the construction sector, and more people are now unemployed. My question to the Council of State is this: will the Council of State try to be proactive here and look at how we can build more hospitals than it is set up in the budget, also as part of meeting the challenges in the construction sector? It will also have a positive impact on the provision of elderly caregivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e809	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the representative Nesvik agrees that we are now making some changes to the effort-driven funding system. I believe that this is something that the committee has been working on for a long time. I think it's very important that we now, as soon as we can get there, show some directions for where we want to go in the construction of a future Norwegian health care system. This is at least an attempt to get the hospitals to think more outside the hospital body, that is, to help change the idea that everyone needs to come to the hospital. When I spent so much time commenting on what the representative said, it is because the answer to the question is simply yes. We are now considering this in connection with the Government's decision to make an additional proposal in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e816	I have a small and a big question for the Council of State. First of all, the Council of State welcomed the fact that the government parties in the Committee have increased the appropriations for physical activity by 7.5 million. kr. Does it also mean that he is happy with the discovery that you take 1.5 million? kr from livestock measures and 1,5 mill. kr from user-driven assistance to disabled persons? So the big question: Biggest isn't necessarily the best. I think the Council of State was injured to confuse the two concepts when he characterised his own draft budget. In all material terms, this draft budget is in the old tracks; money is collected into the specialist health service, partly to cover old fun — bills to be paid — and partly to increase activity, unspecified and unpriority. The right has proposed to label 400 million. D within this framework for appropriations for increased activity, hospitals, district medical centres, outreach and interaction actions — all the purposes in which the Council of State, as far as I understand it, agrees. Does not the Council of State feel that the governance of regional health businesses requires stronger lye?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e825	To the first question, in order to answer the representative's salary properly: when we spend these tens of millions of people in the Sports Association, on physical activity, it will be emphasised in my letter that not least the offer to drug users, i.e. increased activity associated with people who are struggling with drug abuse, and increased activity associated with people with disabilities, are important premises for the money. It has to be clear. So this is not to take from these groups, but to spend the money on these groups in a different way. To question No. 2: I think I will answer briefly and say that yes, but there is something more than stronger lye needed. We also need a plan. You can't uncritically just grant or redistribute this money, you have to think very critically about how to get their effect. So we'll always agree on the slope, but first we need a plan for the use of lye.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e832	These are the changes in the physiotherapy system. From 1 January 2009, the municipalities will take over parts of the population benefit suspension, which will be provided for each patient. Although the operating grant rate of municipalities can be increased, physiotherapists with small agreements will be less likely to come out because they have had the main weight of their income from popular interest, which is now considerably reduced for their part. Physiotherapists with small operating arrangements will have their income base severely weakened. As a result, many people are driven into complete private operation, patients have to cover all costs, chroniclers can fall outside, and only those with good advice can take care of them. The cows I'm afraid will grow. A report made to assess this change points out that the consequences for physiotherapists with small operational arrangements and the consequences for patients have not been established. My question is how the government could propose these changes without knowing the consequences for patients and physiotherapists. So this starts from 1 January 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e839	What I think is important in this case is to discuss the purpose of operating grants. The fact that we've had the starting point at 40 pst. In fact, income should be based on operating grants, because we are going to try to use physiotherapists to a greater extent in hospitals and in the school health service, i.e. to participate in the more community-based community health service. Then we see that there's been a failure because you've split these operating grants into smaller and smaller units. The only way physiotherapists have been able to compensate is through increased patient treatment and less participation, for example. in the school health service. So I think it's very important now when we think about the health care of the future, that we again say very clearly that physiotherapists have an important task in preventing people from having back problems, for example. in the school health service, instead of allowing more and more one-sided emphasis on repair — and not prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e844	Russorg was one of the six bet areas listed by the Council of State. We need more money, and we probably need more human resources, but not least we need good solution models. We in the Left believe that this Stockholm model, as I mentioned in my post, is such a model that can contribute to a solution when it applies to the critical time after detoxification. That's what the Stockholm model actually adds up to. Sweden has good experience with such a model, and the number of overdose deaths has decreased. After all, in my view and in the view of the Left, the Council of State has been open to good ideas, so my question is: Why did the Government vote against this proposal when we discussed the proposal for a representative on 9 June this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e851	The government is not voting in Stortinget, so I think you have to ask representatives from the government parties why they voted as they did. However, let me tell the representative Ludvigsen that I think it is very wise to try to gain experience from different countries. There are many things that have been tried with mixed success also in the world outside of us. We have experiences from Norway with things that have gone well, and things that have not gone well, and there are experiences from other European countries with things that have gone well, and things that have not gone well. That's why I think we're going to be a little bit ‘karåt’, to say it in trändersk, in Norwegian Russian policy – that's how to beat ourselves on the chest and think that we've really found all the answers here in Norway. What's happening out here on the street shows that it's not right. That's why I'm very susceptible to the kind of recording that, for example, the model from Sweden can contribute. And this very moment between detoxification and further treatment I think is also very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e858	In fact, as far as signed memories are concerned, it was that decision-makers with special competence and interest within the drug field should be able to print Subutex and Suboxone, originally a proposal from former staging representative John I. Alvheim and the then big-time representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – so it is important to have history in certain contexts. I think it is very positive that the Council of State has the approach to the drugs policy that he has. That's very good. Another area of concern to society is that we are now getting messages from several municipalities about proposals to remove sick homes and turn them into bookhouses and nursing homes, so that each individual becomes responsible for both food, medicine and support services. Will the Council of State take an initiative with regard to the Husbank so that the guidelines are clearly followed, that if investment grants are provided for the construction of nursing homes, they must be repaid if they are to be abandoned?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e866	The most important thing is what Mr Nesvik has just said, namely that the legislation in this area is clear. You can't get a grant to a nursing home first and then, once you've got it, just redefine it and move on in the world as if nothing has happened. It may well be that the proposal that Mr Nesvik here suggested in his reply is good that in dialogue with the House Bank we should consider whether to clarify this to the municipalities in such a way that everyone is aware of what happens if you go in that direction. I'll take that with me and discuss it with the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e873	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e876	There are many who have been in the field of drugs in the debate. It seems to me that I agree to confirm that it is one of the most challenging areas for Norwegian health care and Norwegian society. So in one of the world's richest countries with one of the world's best health services and one of the world's best welfare systems, we have failed in our drug policy. I think it's very tough of the Council of State that's gone a long way in admitting it. We have improved in many areas, and the government is paying more than ever in the drugs field – it is also reflected in this budget. Nevertheless, the challenges in the drugs field are great. It will require a formidable effort in the years to come, and it is a strength that the entire Health and Care Committee agrees on this. We are all concerned that overdose deaths in Norway do not go down. We are concerned that so many thousands of people are dependent on heroin, that so many use cocaine and amphetamines every day, smoke hash, chew khat and eat pills. We are also worried that people are waiting for help. In the public debate on drug and drug addiction, it is the illicit drugs that are the most focused. Of course, it's not that weird. Alcohol is a legal drug, but it is also a substance to be taken seriously. It's alcohol that's the drug that hurts the most and hurts the most. It is well known among us that, according to WHO, alcohol is one of the most common causes of illness and early death — ranging from traffic damage, domestic violence and street violence, not to mention all the mental stress in children and young people who have people who abuse alcohol in their immediate family. The vast majority of those who become drug addicts start drinking alcohol. It is known that when access increases, alcohol consumption increases. More poles, more restaurants, longer donations and more money among people make us drink more than ever. New figures published yesterday show that we drink more beer, we drink more wine, we drink more spirits, and we drink more raisins. I don't think we can turn off the light and close the tap. But we might want to think about some obvious developments. Just one small example: in many cities there are no longer places for 18-year-olds. Is it because you make more money on liquor? At least it can't be a prevention measure, because the result is that young people sit at home drinking until they get drunk, and of course they have to go out into town and meet others. It's not safe it's so clever. This is not very preventative, given neither harm nor violence nor excessive intoxication. It is possible to prevent and prevent so many from becoming addicted to drugs, but efforts are needed on several sides. There has been a lot of focus on pregnant women and alcohol. I think that's been very effective. There's going to be a big impact on that information, but we need the parents, we need the midwife, we need babysitting, the kindergartens, the school services, and the primary health services — and here at least everyone has to go. The municipality must take responsibility for its search policy, for the number of sites, opening hours and controls. If there's a place where interaction is needed that will produce results, it's here. It's not to make it difficult for people, but simply in solidarity with those who don't deal with rushing. I think there's a limit to how much addiction a society can tolerate. Many children and young people find it difficult. There are countless reasons for that. In any case, it often results in many people not dealing with their school days, perhaps not everyday life at all. Maybe you don't get a job either. It's not hard to understand that you're fleeing to something – it could be a rush. Measures to prevent drop-outs in schools and youth guarantees will be measures that have a preventative effect. I'm glad the government's taking hold. Within the drug field, we're not in the situation that we can be obtuse of anything. There are so many unanswered questions, and get clear answers. We have to turn all the stones, or we won't move on. Even the debate on heroin must be taken. I am very pleased that the Government is now considering setting up mental ambulance teams in healthcare companies, as the Committee has requested. I hope that one of the most unworthy things we've witnessed in the health care community, will soon be history: that police cars and uniformed policemen will pick up mentally ill patients. It has to happen in very special cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e895	Psychiatric health has received a lot of attention lately — not primarily because we have had a ten-year escalation that shows very good results, but perhaps primarily because the results are not as expected. There is reason for reflection when, after ten years of earmarked funding, an important sector has been strengthened, and it is still seen that there are so many serious shortcomings that have emerged recently. The 2007 National Audit Survey on Children and Young People, and a new report on adult mental health issues, show major shortcomings and weaknesses in all service areas, including the target indicators used to measure quality and development of services. You obviously didn't know where you were when you started. You haven't reached the goal you'd set, and there's now a lot of uncertainty about where the road goes. The acute psychiatric supply is perceived to be unsatisfactory in many places, with serious consequences especially for the most ill. We also see great differences in the offer from municipality to municipality, from district to district, and also from doctor to doctor. It's probably the most serious thing. It is by chance who is being treated in the specialist healthcare system, and it is no longer the patient’s state of health that determines, but often the offer offered by healthcare companies. There has been a much greater closure of institutional sites than was intended for the escalation plan. Many of the worst with serious mental disorders now live in the municipalities. This means that even greater demands must be made, both for the district psychiatric centres and for the competence of the municipalities. It has not been followed up along the way, this has not been as it should be. Today, too, many mentally ill people live in ordinary homes. It turns out that the elderly are forgotten in this escalation plan. The situation is not strengthened for older mentally ill people in the municipalities, and it is not professionally competent to deal with those who have serious problems. The Progress Party will also express strong concern that the daily metering of the escalation plan for children and young people was reduced from 500 to 400 places. The 400's aren't fulfilled either. We know of many young people who do not receive suitable daily services. I would like to mention the many anorexics, and Capio Anorexics Centers, which are a treatment site with many vacancies. They have almost seven patients for treatment, and they can accept 17. This is a treatment site with very good results and which the entire committee believes should be available to all anorectists who need daily treatment. But the government makes sure that it doesn't, by refusing to enter the clinic under free hospital choice. So here, the ideology is in front of patients. We also see that in many other contexts, and that's sad. There's something patients don't understand. There's something that the relatives don't understand, and there's something that most politicians don't understand either. Nevertheless, there are many red-green politicians who find themselves in it. The Progress Party sees that there are major challenges that remain. We see that they will not be met by adding money to the framework funding this year. So we're still choosing to designate the funds that have been allocated over this period. We also strengthen the supply of a total of 200 million people with mental illness. SEK, of which 160 million. kr should be used to strengthen measures in the municipalities. In the case of older people, they should not be forgotten. There is a similar challenge today in the area of care for the elderly, as it was three, four and five years ago — or perhaps one might say that the challenges have become even greater. There is a great shortage of nursing homes, and there are a lot of elderly people living at home, who are too sick to live in their own homes. There are also a lot of sick people with special diseases who don't get the professional follow-up they're going to have in a nursing home. There has been a lot of talk about creating special departments, but it happens very little. It's too late. We see that in terms of dents. You know, for many, many years, there's a lot of need for special departments, but it's going too late. The same applies to the construction of nursing homes. The government has now given a signal to strengthen the grant. The Progress Party believes that 3,000 seats are a minimum of what you can start building this year, and we have included that in our budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e912	Emergency medicine is getting better and better, and fortunately more and more lives are being saved after heart attacks, strokes and accidents. But when the blue lights are turned off, many people experience being forgotten. As early as 2005, there was a report from SINTEF that showed a major failure in the provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation in municipalities and health businesses. In 2006, the Health Authority called for a major failure in the provision of child rehabilitation services. This means lost opportunities for many disabled children and a demanding everyday life for their families. As late as during the budget consultations in the Health and Care Committee in the autumn, we received evidence that the offer is very poor. Investigation by the Directorate of Health shows that 51 pst. by the scratches indicate the need for training, while only 10 pst. receive such an offer. Only one in five cardiac patients receive rehabilitation, although this will mean significantly faster improvement. Lack of provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation means lost opportunities for many people. 750,000 people in pre-age employment are out of the labour market. For many of them, better provision of habilitation and rehabilitation will be the way back to work. The scheme Back Back is good, but it does not help all those who are out of work for different reasons. Children, young people and older people also need a better offer. For young people, there are specific challenges in ensuring an offer that is well adapted to their needs and living conditions. Therefore, the right considers that a separate plan is needed to ensure a better provision of rehabilitation for young people. For the Right, it is essential that health services provide people with the opportunity to manage themselves in everyday life and to participate actively in working and social life. A commitment to habilitation and rehabilitation is an investment in greater freedom and better quality of life for many people. At the same time, reducing the need for care and social security benefits is a good social economy. This was well illustrated during the budget consultation, where we were presented with the results of a patient training programme for asthmatics in Finland. The results were that the number of hospital days was reduced by 54 pst, and that sick leave fell by 80 pst. In the 2007 draft budget, the Right-wing Initiative noted that a commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation had to be the next major field of action in the health sector. We got support from all of the parties. The problem is that the government parties, who have historic opportunities through the majority of the Storting and the economic space of the times, have not been willing to follow up words of action. On the contrary, the government parties voted in favour of our proposal for a phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation which was discussed last year. On the right, we have proposed about DKK 0.5 billion in the budget proposals in recent years to implement this escalation plan. In our 2009 alternative budget, we put a total of 600 million. kr for this purpose. We believe that this must be given priority, and therefore earmark funds for rehabilitation in the framework of the appropriations for increased activity. We believe that clear political governance and earmarking of funds are essential if we are to succeed in giving a boost to the rehabilitation field. It is not only useful to refer to increased appropriations to health businesses and hope that a neglected area such as the rehabilitation field will win the internal battle for the budget crowns. We note that the government parties have not supported such a priority this time either. On the contrary, there has been a reduction in the number of days of rehabilitation in private training institutions during this government period, according to the department’s own figures. So it might not be so strange that the slogans of the government parties met on the Lion Hill today, were: «...blah, blah...» and «Now we believe more in the Christmas Eve», because today 40 organizations demonstrated on the Lion Hill against the government's broken promises in the rehabilitation area. The organisations represent large patient groups among heart and lung disease, cancer, traffic damage, disabled people and mentally ill. Professionals and non-governmental organisations are also behind the action. When the Right confronted the Council of State with the broken promises in the rehabilitation area in the Questionnaire on 26 November, he thought it was wrong to claim that this field was not a priority. Well, patients and professionals are of a completely different opinion. In the budgetary hearings of the Committee, the clear feedback has been that patients are in a desperate situation because of lack of training. Hanssen State Council has asked for advice and recordings via its online blog. There is hardly any advice that is more unambiguous than the advice that the Government must fulfill its promise of rehabilitation to all who need it. It's fine with a state council that listens, but it would have been even better with a state council and a government that did something to follow up. However, it is gratifying to see that the civil opposition parties are united in demanding earmarked funds for rehabilitation and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e929	Prevention is cheaper than repair. The problem is that the impact of interventions that we take in the prevention field is difficult to document in the short term and is therefore easy to deprioritise. The working party is concerned with prevention, as shown by several small and large items in the budget. I want to develop a field that is broad and complex in terms of prevention, namely health care and school health. They're important in many arenas, and I'll get into some of them. It is the health care sister who is going to vaccinate young people with the HPV vaccine, which is now being introduced from the school year 2009, which we are very pleased with. The knowledge base and recommendations that have concluded that vaccination against the HPV virus is an effective prevention strategy against cervical cancer have been taken as a result of the red-green government. Thus, we follow a number of countries that have already started or are in the starting pit. The HPV vaccine must also be viewed as part of measures that we have taken against social inequalities in health, as screening is not always as accurate, and not everyone is involved. Here everyone gets an offer and the same opportunity to prevent a serious disease. School health services, on which there is a cross-political consensus in the Committee that more attention needs to be paid and which in many places do not have sufficient resources, have a large and comprehensive impact area. They meet children, youth and relatives in the different situations of life. That is why we wanted to strengthen that offer. In the 2008 budget, we gave special priority to some schools, which received additional funds, for example: in Bodø, Drammen and Halden. In the 2009 budget, we are further increasing efforts against high-tech schools, which need additional measures, by 3.5 million. kr. This means that even more young people get even better offers. Good, up-to-date competence for each individual health sister is necessary. Work on information and counselling for young people in terms of sexuality, sexual health, borders and pregnancy is important. This requires continuous filling and knowledge and new methods to reach more. In this regard, I would like to refer to the job that Sex and Society, more known as KSO, here in Oslo, are doing, in terms of offering this precisely to the health care provider across the country. They have hospitation of about 500 health sisters per year. years, and they issue a methodological book that can be used in school. That we now strengthen this ministry and grant 2.5 million. kr for 2009, will contribute to this work, and will be done, even better. It is also important to focus on the mental health of young people in this context. Providing psychologists at youth health centres, which are open and available at night, is good prevention and a good low-threshold service that we need more. For example, I can. show a good example in Skien, where you have good experience with this. I also want to develop the initiative that is being made at the health stations in Groruddalen. They got $3 million. in 2007 to run three projects, with a continuation in 2008 and 2009. Measures aimed at children, young people and parents are provided here, and are related to diet, diseases, physical activity and much, much more. Elsewhere, health centres carry out prevention work, such as in the LARvik interaction facility, where parents of children from two to six years of age are recruited from the health centre. The same municipality also provides brochures on the first home visit after the birth of alcohol and on alcohol use and children, who are involved in the prevention of drug use, to show parents the responsibility they have when they become role models and caregivers. The health centres, the health sisters and the school health services do a lot, much more than what I've had time to figure out here. I have pointed out in my article the diversity, breadth and need for a strong school health service. If there's someone who can hit youth where they are, and deal with problems and challenges, it's just them. It is a low-threshold offer that I believe there is a cross-political agreement that needs to be developed even more. I am pleased that we are strengthening this sector slowly and specifically, both in terms of access to more money through increased municipal transfers, by earmarked funds for special measures, as I have mentioned here, and by giving them the opportunity to acquire even more knowledge, for example. through KSO.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e955	I want to start from a everyday example. I am pleased that the majority of the committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, are concerned that there is a good offer for physical activity in the Russo. In 2006, the football team FC Hveita United, a low-threshold offer under the auspices of the Salvation Army, was launched. The purpose was to activate drug addicts who do not have any recreational services. Here, drug addicts can meet twice a week for training and physical activity in a social and drug-free arena. The football team is currently playing in the company series, and the offer leads to great motivation to run less and not least to perform better. The offer is being offered today through cooperation between the Salvation Army, Trondheim Municipality and Rosenborg Ball Club. The United League isn't like any other footballers. They are struggling with a drug addiction, and in this context they face many challenges in everyday life that are more or less difficult to deal with. Some of the players have been drug free for a period of time and are working to get out of a drug environment, while others are in active rush and are struggling with other problems such as bubble and other day-to-day challenges. In a everyday life where it doesn't always feel like the auxiliaries are there to help, players have applied to trainers and volunteers in Hveita United for advice and help. The United has from the beginning had a 20 pst. position, covered by the Salvation Army. The rest of the time has been covered by voluntary efforts. Bjørn Hansen, former landscape trainers, trainers of Rosenborg, etc., are together with several of their trainers. On Saturday, Bjørn Hansen received the award under the Trøndersk Sportgalla, among others. for their social work and commitment. Getting into an environment where you're equivalent is new to many. Here, players meet equivalents who understand what they're going through if they have a bad day. Here they are always welcome – in any case. In Wheat, no one stands alone. Many of the players have never experienced being part of a team. They haven't experienced having many friends outside the rush. In Wheat they meet people who don't judge them for what they've done. Here you can be yourself, and you learn the processes that a group belongs to. There are always known faces that are happy to see you, and to have one to share experiences and impressions with. At the same time, Wheat represents something you can always look forward to. Many of the players have a lot of time; it's really the only thing they have too much of. They want to fill leisure with something positive and something meaningful, as all other people also want to do. Most players have struggled with drug addiction since they were young. There's been a lot of bad things about physics. The body is worn out by all the rushing, and in addition physical training has been at the absolute minimum for many, many years. Wheat United has turned this around. Now many feel that they get used their body to something positive. As one of the players expressed it: “I now feel that the pumpkin knocks like a madman because I have jumped after that ball for an hour. I'm tired because I'm training! Not for everything else. And I have never trained a day in my life." They experience getting in better shape, which helps to make them feel better. More people experience that they have abused the body so much that it is incredibly good to know that you are using it for something positive. Wheat is also involved in stimulating mental development. As I said, many became involved in the drug addiction from a young age. They have fallen outside school and other social institutions. In these environments, the focus has been on baptism. At Wheatia they talk to other people about everything other than drugs. Through various chores, tours, events, etc. is often created in a social context. This is valuable experience for people working to reintegrate into society. Through a life as a drug addict, most have developed a more or less poor self-esteem. They experience that society views them in many ways as second-class people and a social burden. They must constantly ask for help for housing and daily life, and they have experienced fighting against the aid that is initially there to help them. Through Hveita United, many people experience being taken seriously for the first time and being valued for who you are. Here you meet people who are happy to see you, and you've been away from training for a while because of rushes etc., people are happy to see that you're back, and not disappointed for the time you've been gone. Even the auxiliaries are considered part of the layer. Under the theme, all of them are equal. Now it's also talking about starting a girls' team for drug addicts. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee see the value of this offer, and that one will ask the Health Directorate to give priority to applying for support for the low threshold offer FC Hveita United in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e986	It is now the fourth year of the Grand Duchy to adopt a health budget from the red-green. I have to ask: what health areas are the red-greens able to solve with almost four years in position? Little or nothing has happened that has improved the situation for those who are in need of good health care. As I see it, we have the same problems in the care of the elderly and the health care system today that we had in 2005. You hear about historical bets and that you've never spent more money on health. But little has gotten better. On the contrary, much has actually become worse, with more than 250,000 queues, with more than 35,000 people in health queues in the current period, with almost 4000 drug addicts in line for weaning, with increased abstinences for chroniclers and allergy sufferers, with Corridor Asians – still a navigable view of using skills and technology in other countries, and a lack of policies in the area of rehabilitation and rehabilitation, otherwise an area that the majority of the Committee believes should be a clearly defined area of activity. None of the major challenges are solved. It's said that it has to be dark before it gets black, and everything isn't really black yet, but you can wonder where the context of the red-green policy is. The progress is very satisfied with the commitment to more physical activity. This is a good, preventive policy, but at the same time it gets weird when the government doesn't want to bet on a follow-up to the diabetes plan with drugs. Ergo will prevent inactivity, obesity and diabetes problems, but you do not want to treat those who have already had a health problem. Understand who it is who wills! I would like to refer here to the alternative budget of the Advance Party, where we put 35 million. DKK for diabetes and coal – for research, treatment and identification. Another area in which we are based is dental services — both in terms of the rate of dental specialist training, where the Advance Party in its alternative budget allocates 30 million. kr, so that dentists can train as dental specialists with support during their training period, and in the general view of oral diseases. It is unreasonable that dental treatment is separate from other medical treatments and that oral diseases should not be treated in the same way as other diseases. Furthermore, the Advance Party wants to grant 10 million. kr to the establishment of a core research centre for ADHD. We want to strengthen stem cell research at the Radium Hospital by 10 million. NOK, and we want to significantly strengthen medical research, by $70 million. in addition to the Government's proposals, where priority areas are cancer research, ME research and dementia research. Furthermore, the Progress Party wants to strengthen pandemic preparedness through a stepping-up plan of 10 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. The party is disappointed that treatment travel abroad has a real decline for 2009 and is strengthening this by 15 million. kr in its alternative budget. It is good that the Committee was able to reach an agreement in the comments on strengthening the treatment offered to our war veterans. Today, Norway has over 100,000 veterans, and there is a relatively high risk of mental sensitisation. This requires a special follow-up of the soldiers, especially and in general. The defense follows up the veterans for one year after duty. Then civil Norway takes over. Societies have a greater residual work to do, in which case competences need to be built up both in the primary health service, in the specialist health service and in the labour and social services for follow-up and rehabilitation. There is also an overall committee that believes that there is a need for more trauma research and research on pressure wave damage, the Traumatic Brain Injury. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party has set at 4 million. In addition to the Government's proposals to follow-up mental illness and rehabilitation of veterans of war and relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1007	As the rapporteur for the chapter on research, I will start by mentioning two areas that the Committee has mentioned, and where I am particularly concerned that we need more research. One is poverty-related diseases, which are central to the global picture of disease. Among the main causes of death in developing countries are AIDS, childhood diseases, malaria and tuberculosis — diseases that take far fewer lives in developed countries. Internationally, too few resources are used to research in areas where progress and development will have an invaluable effect globally, but less effective in rich countries. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee writes that the objective of strengthening the research effort aimed at the global picture of disease must be an important objective of the Government's efforts in the field of health research. The second is cancer research and, in particular, research on large cancer types such as prostate, lung and colon. Cancer is the second largest cause of death in Norway following cardiac arrests. In some areas, there have been many decades without great progress. Cancer research is also something that the Committee has mentioned, and I hope the Council of State will take into account that it is a topic on which the Committee is concerned. So a little bit about hospital economy. I think it has facilitated the hospital operation that the government in this period has cleared up structural challenges that have to do with funding. Renewal of hospital buildings and equipment has already increased. Large pension costs are now covered, and funds are allocated to facilitate hospital changes. The most important thing is perhaps that increased patient treatment is funded both in the budget for this year and in the budget for next year. That means that more people can get treatment, and I'm very happy that the government has got this done. As a Westerner, I am also very happy that the Magnussen Committee's attitude is followed up, and that we get fair distribution of funds between health regions. I think the hospital reform was crucial for us to get a fair distribution now. In the past, each county finally decided on the budgets, and then, in the fullness of time, there were differences between the regions. When hospitals became state-owned, there was a need for a review of it. Based on the setting of the Hagen Committee, a bias was adopted in 2003 under the previous government. But here, first of all, only half of the bias that the Hagen Committee had anticipated, and then a separate Health North supplement – reasonable enough in itself – was to be introduced, but it was to be financed by the sub-funded regions of Health West and Health Mid-Norway. In retrospect it must appear unreasonable. The previous government proposed a five-year correction period, from 2005 to 2009. If this hadn't been speeded up later, we still wouldn't have finished that round. Fortunately, we have come further. The size decision of 2003 was completed two years earlier, and the Magnussen Committee was set down. Instead of 2009 being the last year of creation after the Hagen Committee, 2009 becomes the first year of creation after the Magnussen Committee, and already in 2010 this division becomes history. Finally, as the previous speaker, I would like to highlight a special area in which the Committee has done something common and cross-political, namely in relation to the damage caused by war veterans and psychological damage, a subject among others. SIOPS, the association for damage in international operations, and the newspaper Bergen's Official Journal have focused on the recent past. Today, Norwegian soldiers are taking part in Afghanistan. The Committee notes that participation in international operations today is a central and integrated part of Norwegian security and defence policy, that soldiers involved in such operations often live in a stress situation over a long period of time, and that the length, threat level and intensity of their stay increase the risk of psychological damage. Now it is important that more competence is built on, among other things. this type of damage to the health system and that the veterans of the war meet an offer that is available and coordinated.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1028	As much as every three crowns of municipal budgets are used for care, care and health care. The sector employs a total of more than 160 000 people. Relatives and patients are dependent on good services. Municipal health and care services affect the lives of many people every day. Care in municipalities is not just care for the elderly. In some municipalities, the other care tasks are about the same level as care for the elderly, some of which are actually larger. More than 67 years of age are still in need of services from the municipality, in some cases very costly services to ensure the necessary assistance and follow-up around the clock. In order for municipalities to be able to make a good offer, it is important that the state prepares with good framework conditions and arrangements, which are also fairly fair between municipalities in relation to the different challenges each municipality faces. Predictability of the conditions is also important in order to be able to plan good overall offers to the individual user. This is precisely what the red-green government has done by strengthening the top-level funding mechanism for resource-intensive services significantly in the last year’s budget. During the current year and next year, the appropriations for this scheme will be increased by approximately NOK 1.3 billion – a lot in two years. All parties end up about this now, but I cannot help but remember that the previous government made the conditions worse for the municipalities, as the need for such services increased. I know that someone doesn't like to hear it, but it's okay to be involved in increased appropriations when you can participate in our welfare bills, when it didn't happen to be any of the taxes. Better interaction between hospitals and municipalities are important measures to ensure a better supply for patients and to get more out of each health budget. Therefore, it is good that the Minister of Health has a strong focus on such interaction. Various studies show that 400,000 laydays in Norwegian hospitals could have been saved last year. Many of the patients involved could have been offered at least as well in the community health service, and not just in the case of care services. Also services such as drug treatment, psychiatry and rehabilitation should be provided more widely where people live, with closeness to users and their relatives. For most people it is important to be close to their closest when you are ill or caring. This is achieved by strengthening the offer outside the municipalities. As a bonus for society, estimates show that the price per cent. days of hospitalisation are lower in the municipal health service than in the hospitals. When the individual patient receives a better offer and society a lower cost, there is little doubt about what to do more of — a stronger interaction between hospitals and municipalities, or the first and second line service, as it is called in the professional language. It is obvious that new tasks for municipalities need to be followed up with additional funds for municipalities, especially when the municipal health service is to do more of what hospitals do today, such as: must result in a significant increase in the medical coverage of hospitals. Municipalities have given priority to strengthening the care sector in recent years. There is reason to give credit for building new nursing homes and providing nursing homes with staff, and for hiring more people to strengthen the services. A formidable effort is being made for which the municipalities deserve praise. That is why we must also address the seriousness of the concerns we are now receiving, about lower efforts and less ambitious efforts next year, among others. as a result of the financial crisis. The government has announced that it will deliver a fiscal policy package early next year. I am sure that many rapporteurs, local politicians and employees are ready to spend extra money on behalf of their citizens when the local community sector receives its share of the package of measures. There are major needs, both on the investment side and on the operating side. Both construction workers and health professionals are needed in this way. The 2009 State budget proposes to include the earmarked funds for the operation of municipal mental health work in the free revenues. For the vast majority of municipalities, this has no distributional impact, but some of the largest cities in the country have specific challenges and have therefore received a major urban grant. A unanimous municipal and management committee is in favour of the maintenance of this grant by major cities. This is significant in large budgets in large municipalities. We will return to this tomorrow in the consideration of the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs. Who cares about the level of administration that the service provides, provides help and treatment? The most important thing for all of us when we need it is that we experience security, warmth and good services. The money affects the interaction. Therefore, the financial arrangements must be smart and stimulate the best solutions. Here we can get better, and we'll get better in a short time. We're going to get more momentum on the interaction and so are fewer swing door spaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1055	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1058	I listened with interest to Gunn Olsen's comments, and I think it was a very timely reminder that the Norwegian alcohol debate has been to a very small extent a health policy debate and, to a great extent, has been about things other than health policy. I don't think the challenge in this area is primarily to come up with new rules. We have rules more than enough, if they're just being observed. But it's per. today, too many minors who are given the opportunity to rush are in breach of the legal provisions in force. There are too many obviously overwhelmingly intoxicated people who are still being donated, despite the fact that the law prohibits this. If we could manage to find arrangements that would create respect for the legal provisions in force, we would have won a lot. There is also reason to recall that an overwhelming proportion of the episodes of blind violence that shake us through the media are related to the misuse of alcohol or other forms of drugs. Let me also take a little visit to the drugs policy in general. It is, in my opinion, a paradox that we have had a debate on whether we should have a debate on the drugs policy. It's always an expression of conceptual confusion. I would probably like the Council of State to do it on a slightly wider basis than one conversation with one person with experience in drug abuse. If there is any area where it would be advisable to invest in a national consensus conference with all the professional environments we have in Norway that conduct research in this area, it must be here. Then maybe we could have a debate with the earth's pipeline, and it can never hurt. Finally, a small note about my small exchange of lines with the Council of State earlier in today's debate. I called for a profiling in the budget of the thoughts that the Council of State now travels around the country and the beach, namely that there is a need for a sharp shift in the focus of Norwegian health policy. The right has taken the consequences of this by having earmarked 400 million. of the general increase in what is involved in outreach treatment where people live. The draft budget of the Council of State reminds us of the confusion about the classic that Norwegian television has now made even more known during Christmas time than the Christmas Gospel itself, namely «The Duchess and the Lord Master» – «Ssame procedure as last year, Miss Sophie? – Same procedure as every year, James. Why doesn't the Council of States take the consequences of their own understanding? Why should he wait until he gets expert help to know what we all know – a long time ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1067	A little back to this with physiotherapy: I understand very well the intentions of the proposal and agree with the Minister of Health that it is incredibly important to get more physiotherapists in the municipalities of hospitals that deal with rehabilitation, etc. This conversion probably began last year with the new agreement of at least 40 pst. to the new physiotherapists. It's all right, even if it can be small for someone. But there are too many people who only have 20 pst. In the structural change, it is not suggested that the municipalities are charged with an increase for those who may now have to continue with 20 pst. It's these I'm particularly concerned about. If they fall out, there will be longer queues, and the chroniclers will be hit. If it is possible to be a bit creative and allow me to make a proposal, I could have thought – if it was possible – that the changes in the municipalities that had 20 pst. agreements could be awaited. In our ICT world, that should be possible. Or perhaps another proposal could be – if the Minister of Health would at all think about it – that a deadline for municipalities to increase and say that they should no longer have 20 pst. agreements, whether they do it alone or intermunicipally. I think it might have been a good idea. If it is possible for the Minister of Health to comment on it, it would have been fine. Otherwise it's up to you to come back to it later. As far as school health is concerned, I am very pleased with what Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen says, that it is an incredibly important sector, and I very much agree with all the representative said. The previous Minister of Health said that she was willing to look at a kind of reference offer at the school health service, because there are many places, especially in secondary and secondary schools, that are offered. This is particularly important in secondary schools. What I could have thought we'd been looking at was that you had a fixed opening time, so in all the municipalities, the young people knew that Wednesday at 4 p.m. 8–10, or maybe three days a week in large municipalities, there was an opening time where everyone could go to health care. She promised to watch this, but we have not received any feedback as to whether it is possible to do so. Then there's another thing, this is the crisis package coming from the government. It's very important, and it's something that many people look forward to in the municipalities. I hope that the Health Minister will take an assessment of some investment projects, I think, for example. in the West Health, where you have a children's clinic which is about to expire. There are complete plans, but problems with implementation. I think it's very important, and we like to get input into many more actions, which are actually clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1076	Few things are worse than when young children die. It is a personal tragedy for everyone who is affected. It is therefore important to strike the balance between the fact that society is conducting the necessary studies to find out what has happened and the fact that it is dealing with people in grief with respect for the situation. An overall health and care committee has been closely associated with the proposal to launch a site-of-death study in case of sudden and unexpected child deaths. We are pleased that there has now finally been such a study based on the thorough work of the Rognum Committee on the Child Death Project. This was an important and successful project to gain more knowledge about how these deaths should be handled by authorities and professional bodies. Seeing the place where the child died is one of the prerequisites for using the diagnosis "Sudden Infant Death", or creepy death. In cases where there is doubt that there is a shortage of life, or whether the child has died as a result of a care failure or a killing, the scene must be investigated in order to establish the cause. The studies must be carried out by a special-interest group with different but important competences in a so-called expert model. There must be forensics, and it is important that the person who has obsessed the child is the same. Within the group, both persons with special competence in the anatomy of children and with general investigation competence are needed, although this does not mean that they should be employed by the police. It is therefore positive that the Government is now imposing an obligation on the specialist health service to offer parents and to carry out site-of-death studies in all cases of sudden, unexpected infant and child deaths with these prerequisites in place. An overall committee has also asked the Government to assess the constitutional aspects of the investigation into a mandatory system that cannot be denied. In any event, any refusal of parents to accept the offer shall be recorded. The record shall accompany the child and the refusal shall be clearly stated in the information provided to the parents. Autopsy of a child who has died must be performed as soon as possible. If a criminal is suspected, it shall be reported promptly to the police to initiate regular investigations. In the event of such a suspicion, regardless of the suspicion, no provision for a site of death screening will be made. In that case, ordinary investigation procedures will be initiated by the prosecution authorities. There shall be a low threshold for what health professionals or police consider suspicious when young children die. The Committee has asked the Ministry of Health and Health through the mission document to ask health establishments to comply more closely with the obligation to notify health professionals, where possible with a view to suspecting that children are subject to criminal offences. Similarly, we would ask the Ministry of Justice to ensure that the police are given a greater priority over the investigation of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1093	I am pleased that the majority of the Health Committee, on the initiative of the Workers' Party, is launching the great work of the Sammen project in Norway. We talk about extensive activity in Haugesund, Sauda, Karmøy, Stord, Flekkefjord, Kvinesdal, Kristiansand, Grimstad, Porsgrund and Sandefjord and some activity in Larvik. The project is managed by IOGT Norway and has extensive cooperation with municipalities, non-governmental organisations and businesses at the various sites of activity. The aim of the project is to give drug addicts a better life. The project contains a broad range of measures for some of those in our society who are struggling the most. Keywords in this context are a low threshold of healthcare provision for heavy drug users, food delivery and rehabilitation. The ‘Sammen’ project is an excellent example of how voluntary sector, public and business take together social responsibility. Not least this is a non-profit project. However, the problem is that the activity and potential of the project have been underfunded. Here, a lot of money is left, little goes to administration, and a lot of people are helped. Therefore, it would have been desirable to have a slightly larger state contribution in the years to come. In this respect, it is particularly gratifying that the majority of the Committee, on the initiative of the members of the Workers' Party, is clear in its budgetary statement for the following year: ‘... request that a special priority be given to the application to the Health Directorate for support for the «Sammen» project.’; I am pleased with the clear comment, and I am absolutely sure that it will lead to the project reaching even more in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1108	It is a joyous day for all those who have worked to correct the imbalance between regional health businesses. The position of the Magnussen Committee will be followed up in the 2009 budget by 600 million. NOK and another 634 million. kr for 2010. The hospital economy is strengthened, and the distribution of inequalities is corrected. The government of Stoltenberg demonstrates both the will and the power of action through the submitted State budget for 2009. The hospital economy is strengthened by SEK 6.5 billion in addition to the price and salary rise, and is now up to over NOK 102 billion. It will provide more patients with treatment, lead to shorter waiting times, and help hospitals to keep their budgets. For Health Mid-Norway, this is $224 million. NOK 2009 and SEK 237 million. kr for 2010. This is done without any cuts in the appropriations for Health South-East. It's fresh. The distribution of scrolls is history from 1 January 2010. The launch of the Magnussen Committee is being followed up in full, as I said, with the exception of two proposals, concerning the financing of guest patients and the proposal for increased activity-based research grants, which will be evaluated before possible inclusion later. The redistribution takes place within the growth of the hospital budget. This means that Health Mid-Norway will get 436 million. SEK more over a two-year period instead of SEK 324 million. kr, which was the original proposal of the sample, when the redistribution had to be corrected without having to grow in the budget. Fair funding for health regions has been a very important issue for many who are involved in health policy. That's why I'm glad that the bias distribution is history. It gives Health Mid-Norway the opportunity to realise other important construction projects, including: new children’s ward in Ålesund, new hospital in Molde, etc. Today, a total of DKK 3.6 billion is allocated to public hospitals in the new budget and SEK 320 million. kr to private to cover, among others. the cost of pensions, i.e. the actual pension liabilities incurred for the future, as opposed to the pension contribution, which is the obligation for hospitals to pay in the current year. For Health Mid-Norway, this increased appropriation is 680 million. kr. The pension premium for 2008 amounts to DKK 2,3 billion, increasing the liquidity of hospitals by DKK 1,3 billion, which is the difference between pension costs and pension contributions. Twenty-four million. 36 million for prevention. SEK for research and competence enhancement, 5 million. kr for interaction and 7 mill. kr to increased user influence. In addition, alcohol is included in the coverage of 1.5 pst. treatment of patients in hospitals. I think the Council of State and the Government here show the willingness both to look ahead and to take new measures and to increase appropriations in important areas, which means that more people get good treatment in the right place and at the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1125	Still, some remains before we can be satisfied with the treatment offered to women and men who have been incested. Many of the stories incestuated tell about how they have been met by the auxiliaries are to cry off. Unfortunately, many are still being interrogated by treatment when trying to tell their history of abuse. They are forced to continue to carry their cruel secret, and in the meantime they develop complicated mental and somatic disorders. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee in its position is concerned with the treatment offered to those incestants and in particular mentions the provision of trauma established for sexual abuse at Betania Malvik. This treatment offer is in many ways quite peculiar, because it is built on the initiative of the incestuous mariners and is an offer tailored to sexual abuse. Treatment is a 24-hour offer where you receive intensive treatment of your own trauma history, i.e. processing the traumas you have suffered so that the health damage they have caused can be healed. The financing of this trauma offer is ensured in 2009 through a research and development agreement between Health Mid-Norway, St. Olavs Hospital and Betania Malvik. What happens after 2009 is highly uncertain. I believe it is important that the project is now further developed and quality assured. The feedback from those incestants who have been treated by Betania Malvik is unisonably positive. At the moment, there are long waiting lists for people who want treatment at Betania Malvik, up to two years waiting lists. I am concerned that this offer will continue even after 2009, and that the possibility of an offer that could become a nationwide one will also be considered. Today's offer to this group is too random, and still some of our health services lack knowledge of how to treat this group. In such a perspective, it is important that we continue treatment arrangements that have been shown to be as successful as the trauma offer for sexually abused people at Betania Malvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1138	I just want to take the opportunity to comment on a couple of issues that have arisen in the debate. First, I would like to make some comments on the last article of the representative's salary. There the representative launched the opportunity to organise a consensus conference in the field of drugs. I think this is an exciting proposal. Of course, I have noticed what the committee says in the setting on page 41: ‘The Committee therefore asks the Government to put forward such a strategic approach to drug addict interventions after 2010.’ I very much agree with that. I think it is important that we now follow the plan we have in the budget for 2009 and with a further strengthening in 2010. But then we will also use the period up to the end of 2010 to build up a new strategic commitment to the drugs field, for of course everything will not be completed there in the context of the 2010 budget. There's been a failure at all stages of care. There are failures on the knowledge side, as the representative on the pay side, there are failures in emergency measures, detoxification, treatment sites, after-care, overall patient progression — yes, mostly. That's why I think we should be inspired, for example. the stepping-up plan for mental health. Although we are not in goal there either, I believe there is no doubt that we have come much further now than we were ten years ago. If we can get a corresponding long-term, concrete bet on the drug field, I believe in that kind of good old-fashioned political craft, that we're building stone on a kind of consensus in the hall, and thus going in the right direction. I believe that the proposal that wages come with here, that of organising a national consensus conference to challenge the subject, can be an important tool in the design of such a plan. Then I just want to say to the representative that it is probably not the same procedure as last year, this budget. So first of all, it's almost 100 million. kr to interaction measures in the budget. But unlike previous years, there is also funding for what we actually expect from patient growth next year before we get new interaction measures to work. It is financing of pension costs, unlike previous years. It's funding for conversion, as opposed to previous years. So yes, that's part of the same budget line, but for example. on pensions, unlike in all other previous budgets, we are now adding an actual funding of what it costs. So finally, I heard well what Davøy said, both in his first and his second posts, and took it with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1154	First of all, I will be allowed to say that I think the debate has been so marked by what we can also see in the position, that it is not necessarily the disagreement you are cultivating, but you are actually trying to find solutions. The Committee shall be honoured for that purpose. But I have a few small comments, first to the Council of State's final articles. No, unfortunately not all of the pension costs have been solved, because private pension costs, including: for Diakonale Hospital in Bergen, not resolved in the 2007 figures. Here, there's actually a remainder of 150 million left. kr, for which no solution has been found, which jeopardises some of these offers in terms of both developing and reinvesting. So it's a little bit important that you come up with a solution also for the private ones on what's hanging out again. And then just a little question. When I heard Saxi's posts in the room instead, I got a feeling that the representative of Saxi – and then I get the expectation from the government party SV – would go away from effort-driven funding. I wonder about it, because at least I haven't seen anything in the government's budget. But now the Minister of Finance is just coming from the Socialist Left Party. So then it could have been interesting to hear if this is the government's policy, or if it's highly thoughtful on the part of the Socialist Left Party. It's actually an important signal out to the hospitals about what this is like to look at in the future. There's a lot of good in the budget. And then you can take one or the other variant in terms of how you choose to see it. To Jorodd Asphjell's post that now it's going to be amazing, because now the Stortinge grants the money that at least corrects half of the bias, and that's a saying: Yes, you can see it that way, and so do I. That's a positive contribution in the right direction. But at the same time, it is said that for one more year, patients from western Norway, from central Norway and from north Norway will be worth less than those in the south-east. So I'm saying that there could be different incidence portals. But that's what you've said, because you've recognized that it's a biased distribution. So you say we're just going to raise half to next year, and take the rest of the year after that again. But I choose to look positive at it. We're in the process, and we're looking forward to all patients being equally valuable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1165	The representative of Inge Wohnung has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1168	I need to get back to the Council of State's response. I appreciate that very much. Since we're now in the Christmas mood, I'd like to sign back a little bit, so do I. I see all the things he pointed to as positive in the draft budget he has presented. Nevertheless, when I found reason to remember the «Dutch and Chief of Staff», it is because, after all, the budget bears the mark of the superthinker principle, it takes a very long time to change the course. That's the situation when we had the general budget debate on 27 November in this room. Despite the fact that everyone knows that the assumptions have changed fundamentally, and despite the fact that everyone knows that the budget the Stortninget then dealt with is not the real budget for the coming year, the Government insists on pretending that nothing has changed. That's what I'm putting my finger on. When the Council of State says that there is now time for change, and there is a fundamental shift of the centre of gravity, I think it would have been reasonable to see a clear fingerprint in the budget of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1178	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1181	I am pleased that the representative, Mr Nesvik, too, thinks this is a relatively good budget, and the Committee is, of course, in all, in agreement with most of the points. But I would also like to remind you that the Hagen Committee, with which the Advance Party was fully supported, was to correct the imbalance by 50 p.m., and that five years were to be spent on it. The Labour Party Government fulfilled it in four years – and not just that – they reduced a new sample. The report was submitted this year, and this is already achieved during the 2009 and 2010 budgets. I think it is very good in relation to what the Progress Party in its time was involved and joined in connection with the Hagen Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1186	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1189	History is obviously not the strongest side of Asphjell's representative, because in fact the Workers' Party has not made a single proposal until the Magnussen Committee was set up and started to work. So the Workers' Party has not had a different policy in reversing the bias, than the majority in this Chamber has actually had. I think the representative Asphjell will go back a little bit in history. The Progress Party has not said that everything in this budget is good – there is considerable reason to point it out. What we've said is that it's important that we don't necessarily cultivate the disagreement, but that we try to reach agreement where possible. But keep me well, there's a lot to fix in this budget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1196	I would first like to comment on something the representative Davøy was interested in when it came to following the care plan. I think it is important that the 2015 care plan can also be improved on the road. It was a very positive comment the minister came to what Davøy mentioned about the estimate of housing construction related to the care plan, and also what was said about housing where investment grants were used. As regards the improvement of the care plan, I would also like to add a question that is supported in the budget in terms of training 10 geriatrics per year. years. When we talk about the interaction reform, I think we should be aware that geriatri is going to become increasingly important. It is the case that a large proportion of patients who are now entering hospitals have complex diagnoses. There are older complex diagnoses, and they can be sent in and out of hospitals in a rapid order for various disorders if there is no way to better coordinate the measures both in hospitals and in hospitals by means of strong geriatric units. So that's something we should also look at when we're going to improve the care plan in the future. I think it's nice that the Right at the representative's Wage is moving in the way of the interaction reform. We have already addressed the implementation of important changes, including: the changes in the ISF outside the hospital presented on Friday, and the Minister said that concrete measures would also be put in place. However, when Wage and the Right now go in to withdraw DKK 1 billion from the budget and earmark it for rehabilitation and interaction measures, while the Right attacks the government parties not to do anything about hospital waiting lists, then you do not fully pair your feet, because an increased effort is required in hospitals to manage the reduction of waiting lists and to be able to treat patients in areas other than those related to rehabilitation and interaction. So we have to pair our feet. It is difficult to achieve the interaction reform if we are not able to keep track of the hospital economy, and then it is inside that, in order to conduct responsible policies, one must also look at the growth of activity. What I thought was very positive now in Inge Wohnning's final post, was what he said about prevention, which is an important part of the interaction, and what was said about alcohol policy. I read with great joy from the Right Programme Committee, where both the representatives of Sjöli and Wohnning are sitting, that one will go away from liberal alcohol policy and no longer fight for wine sales in shops, cheaper spirits, etc. It is a pleasure, and that means that there is a broad majority in the United Kingdom who will now be strongly involved in alcohol prevention. Alcohol abuse is one of the leading causes of disease in society. Well, it's obvious that the next question might be whether you'll also be looking at gift times in view of blind violence in our cities, which is a topical debate. I am pleased that, in today's budget debate, we have moved on to a number of points and look forward to further work in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1209	The word interaction is probably the word we've heard most from the Council of State after he took over this summer. It's an important word... [[The fire alarm goes off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1216	It wasn't such a glowing post, was it? Then we have to get out of the Storting. Vigdis Giltun continues when the fire is extinguished. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 13.36 The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 14-17.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1225	I'll try a little less glowing post now, so maybe we won't go out again! But we have now seen examples of good interaction. We got out all the man, but there was a little worse interaction when we were going to come back. Interaction is what the Council of State has talked a lot about, and on which he focuses a lot, and that is important. 90 pst. health services are provided in municipalities. More and more of the services are being provided there, but unfortunately it turns out that the municipal health service is not properly built to do so. The promotion party has chosen to earmark DKK 1 billion for the care of the elderly in the municipal health service this year, just to build up this care, and to strengthen it, so that they will be better able to care for sick, elderly people who are often released early from hospitals. I am a little surprised that the government has not chosen to do the same. Building up before tearing down is one of the most important things. It doesn't help with a good reform of the paper or a lot of good ideas and seeing the weaknesses, if you haven't built up an offer in advance. Now you can do that. You're actually a little late. You can also see that within the psychiatry. In the municipalities, it has not been possible to reconstruct what has been torn down – or removed – in the specialist health service. In terms of prevention, it is also very important. Everyone agrees. In fact, it seems important to show it by giving money to prevent it. In the case of diabetes care, it is particularly poor in Norway. I was at the Health Economics Conference yesterday. Statistically, it was shown how badly we care for diabetes compared to countries we can compare with, like Denmark, Sweden and other Nordic countries. We're way behind. It also shows up in the late complications and state of health of people with diabetes. It has been said for at least three years, or since the diabetes plan was presented, that we need to find the undiagnosed and give them an offer. Still today, there's the same number of people we don't know about have the disease. We can't give them an offer to prevent late injuries. The government has not now submitted additional funds in this year's budget. It's a cross of thought when the Council of State is so concerned about these things, that he doesn't already show how he can do it by granting money directly where we know that there are gaps. There's a lot we think, and a lot we want to figure out how to do the best we can, but there's a lot we already know today that we have to do. At least the Progress Party has shown that we want to go in with funds. We now want to strengthen the places we know are weak. Then we hope – we had actually believed it – that the government will come up with something more concrete, which shows that they will do something with these things, and that it is not just talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1240	Jan Bøhler has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1243	I just owe the representative Nesvik an answer to the question of effort-driven financing, ISF. The parties to the government are, of course, in terms of effort-driven funding, as indicated in the budget and budget. We are to develop the system, which the minister presented on Friday and also here in the debate, and to use it outside the hospital. Although we are in favour, we are not in favour of what the Progress Party is in favour of, namely, increasing effort-driven funding from 40 p.m. to 60 pst. We think they're going too far. You will still get a drawing paper against the specialist health service and have difficulties interacting with the first line. I also believe that the proposal of the Progress Party to withdraw rehabilitation and finance it through Nav will go in the same direction, away from interaction, away from being able to build rehabilitation throughout the patient cycle. There are a few proposals from the representative, Mr Nesvik, which I think are a step away from interaction. But in the series of Christmas greetings, I would say to the last speaker, the representative Giltun, who was occupied by Capio in his previous post today, that there have also been government parties on a common note that that offer is good and must be used by patients throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1252	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1224]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1268	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1277	In Document No, the proposers: 8:106 for 2007–08 addressed a number of challenges related to maternity care, safer provision of food and a better follow-up during childbirth. The Committee welcomes the fact that these issues are put on the political agenda. When the government parties have chosen to stand outside the majority of the Committee's comments, the reason is quite logical, for the Government will present in the new year a big message entitled "A Happy Event". The government parties want the best possible way of dealing with the important matter, and we believe absolutely that we do not achieve it by dealing with these questions piece by piece and division. For the government parties, it would be natural to see the representative proposal, which contains many important and relevant issues, along with the big message. We understand that the opposition is impatient. It may be that we are too, but it must be the reality and the will to arrive at the best results that must govern this matter as well. We believe that this big message will be far wider and will deal with much more than what is stated in the draft representative. Now I could have chosen to comment on the suggestions, but I'll take it away. In the new year's announcement, we in the government parties expect that all of the challenges will be part of a comprehensive growth report. We are very happy to work with that big message with the proposers and with the rest of the opposition. That is why we hope that the proposals will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1286	I hope the government parties are as impatient as we are, because as early as 2006, the government announced that they would present an action plan for better maternity, maternity and maternity care. After two years it became clear in ours that there was no action plan, but a big message was later announced that would come in the autumn – now it is postponed to the end of the new year. This is why, as early as April, the Right presented proposals with 13 concrete measures to improve food supply. State health surveillance demonstrated a quality defect in maternity and maternity care in 2006. The Earth Mothers' Association, the Medical Association and user organizations have also been calling for a long time. As is well known, the members of the National Council for Paternity Care, which consisted of the country's leading professionals in the field, dropped their jobs in protest in November 2007 because of poor follow-up to maternity care by the Government. The right and other parties have raised the matter several times in Stortinget. The problems are well known: summer-related maternity wards, the closure of maternity wards, too little capacity and overcrowded maternity wards, reports of near-accidents and a large increase in aberrations in the maternity wards, and lack of midwifery both in the maternity wards and in the municipal health services. I do not know about any other area of healthcare where emergency departments are shut down or when patient inflows are greatest. That's what happens in maternity care. I believe that this is both irresponsible and unworthy, and it must simply end. In fact, Norway is one of the world’s best countries to live in, but there is evidence that there is still much to be done to ensure that everyone is offered a good and fair offering. Lack of professionally sound provision may have dramatic and tragic consequences for those concerned. There are very small margins in maternity care. I can sign that from my 20 years as a midwife. The right today promotes 13 concrete proposals with full support in the professional community and user organisations. Time does not allow me to go into the individual proposals, but there are a few aspects I want to elaborate on. Firstly, the lack of capacity of some maternity wards in the context of holiday settlement, which professionals have described as irresponsible. Even in the ordinary course of life, the lack of consistency between the dimensioning of food supply and the real need for food supply failure, more stress and poor follow-up of women who, according to professionals, may lead to complications. It is very serious, and I hope that the Council of State takes this situation seriously and, by virtue of its ownership role, obliges regional health companies to ensure better capacity and quality of the offer both in the event of holiday settlement and in the event of regular operation. I would strongly encourage the Council of State, when he is on his journeys in Health-Norway, to take a tour of the maternity wards and talk to the midwives, talk to the doctors and to the trustees. He'll get a completely different idea than if he's just talking to the directors of health companies. It's my clear opinion and experience after having hospitated at several food departments both in the spring and in the summer. The other concerns the accompanying service. A good follow-up service is essential in order to ensure the safety and safety of women with a long journey to the maternity ward. The right proposes the introduction of an individual right to a qualified follow-up service for midwives with more than one hour’s travel to the maternity ward, if it is necessary on the basis of a professional judgement and if the woman so desires for reasons of safety. It is also important to draw up a plan to strengthen the service of midwives in municipalities, both in terms of quality and capacity. And it is necessary to establish grant schemes to facilitate the testing of different models of overall follow-up through maternity, maternity and maternity. I now hope for concrete signals from the Council of State on what he will do to improve maternity and maternity care, and that he here in the Chamber can give some positive feedback – I hope – on the proposals that are available. Finally, I address our proposal and recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1309	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the proposal she referred to. The President will give the floor to Mr Olsen before the Council of State receives the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1314	I was a little quick at the lab. I should have mentioned on behalf of the government parties the proposal of the minority in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1319	The representative of Gunn Olsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1322	I want to start by saying that I understand that the Storting is impatient about this area, and that you now want to get a document from the Government so that you can get a complete review of the maternity, maternity and maternity care in Norway. In the Department and Government, we are at the very end of the work on the big message that has been mentioned earlier in the debate. We aim to present it at the end of January or in the month change of January/February. I can assure you that this is what we intend to do. Then, just after the well-deserved Christmas holiday, Stortinget has the opportunity to take a debate on this matter in its full scope. I am asking for an understanding that I will conclude in the message, which is therefore just a few weeks ahead. What I can assure the representative, Mr Sjéli, is that several of the proposals in the vote are certainly proposals that we consider important and good input into the debate. In the communication, we will follow the proposals in full or in part. Now I'm not going to interfere in how Stortinget votes, but it's clear that we will look at these proposals with great interest when we go over the last few rounds of work on the message over the coming weeks, and hope that we get a good opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1331	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1334	I want to come back to the proposals, but I have a challenge for the Council of State. Several food departments around the country have been shut down or run down in June, July and August due to economic savings over the last three years, despite the fact that former Minister of Health, Brustad, here in Stortinget, on several occasions, stated that no food departments were to be closed because of economics. The food department at St. Olav's Hospital in Trondheim was an example of the horror last summer. I believe that the Council of State is well aware of the unworthy and irresponsible conditions that many birthing women were exposed to. We expect, of course, that pregnant and giving birth will not be exposed to the same problems as we approach in the summer. My question to the Council of State is: what will he now do to ensure a professionally sound supply of food at the country's food departments for the summer? Can he guarantee that no food departments will shut down or reduce operations due to financial savings? We now know about how many will be born in June, July, and August. It must be possible to plan better than has been done in the last three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1343	I agree that there are very few reasons for shutting down maternity wards during the summer with economic justification. I actually allow myself to be very doubtful about how much money there is in it. The only reservation I have to make when I answer concerns what I experience when I am travelling and visiting maternity wards – something that is both pleasant and interesting – namely that many, both midwives and doctors, are concerned about the possibility of having a professionally sound arrangement during the summer. Holidays are to be completed, and temporary workers are often to be included during the holiday break, and there are as many quality on them as possible as temporary workers. If that's the starting point, I think it has to be really to discuss whether it's right to run a temporary ward, or to find other solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1349	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1354	I agree with the Council of State in what he now said in the reply, that if there are not enough qualified people to mann a maternity ward in summer time, you have to consider reduced operation or maybe shut down for periods. Looking back on the last two or three summers, the main motivation of hospitals in such cases has been financial savings. This concerns St. Olav's Hospital, and there are several other maternity wards. So to the Council of State's comments on the proposal itself. I think he gives a lot of positive signals. Now this proposal has been in Stortinget for six months. I believe that the department has been familiar with the content, so that they have had the opportunity to evaluate it in the course of the process. The council also said that there were good recordings, and that they were far on the way, in whole or in part, included in the big shot. That's what I think is very positive signals, so I want to re-do the proposal for a transmission proposal. We are looking forward to the big shot coming, and to a thorough review of maternity, maternity and maternity care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1363	The representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli has referred to the proposal for a transmission proposal. The proposal will then be discussed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1237]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1381	Sorry about the voice, but in the middle of the health debate, the president got cold. At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1392	I hope the cold passes quickly. It's a little chilly in here, but we have to take our share of the responsibility for the environment, we too. It's about putting up with it a little bit. Predictability of operation, maintenance and investment is of great importance also for Norwegian hospitals. Therefore, the intention of the Progress Party proposal is good, as it is a desire to increase predictability. Nevertheless, within today's system it is possible to provide such predictability. Changes may be notified in good time before hospital budgets are allocated. If the Storting had treated the hospitals through a separate hospital proposal, according to the model from the municipality proposal, which was treated before the summer, it is clear that some more leaders could probably have been laid before the case today. However, all parties, except the Advance Party, believe that if the specialist health service were taken out and treated separately, this could further weaken the objective of overall health care, since the specialist health service and community health services would not have been sufficiently viewed in the context. This would be unfortunate, and that is the main reason why no other party joins the proposals of the Progress Party. For this reason, all parties outside the Advance Party agree that the draft representative should be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1401	The specialist health service is one of the main chapter areas of the annual government budgets. For 2009, the appropriations for regional health enterprises will amount to more than DKK 102.5 billion. A change in the framework conditions that could take place at the end of December and become effective from 1 January will lead to the hospital being unable to provide long-term financial management. This sector has been and is still undergoing major shifts and changes. There will also be major changes in this field in the future, especially in the light of the technical and medical progress made, as well as changes in the geographical and age composition of the population. Political decisions from year to year will also have a significant impact on what a hospital has of investments, whether they are decisions of a financial nature or structural change. This has meant that long-term planning and conversion have been difficult to implement in practice, all the time when the sector with today’s system could risk giving 14 days to prepare for the changes adopted in the Stortinge — this in the ultimate sense. There is a need for a separate hospital proposal submitted each year before the summer, as this could improve the possibility and ability to plan the necessary and desirable changes for subsequent years. One element is the ISF share, which in fact has varied from year to year over a period of time in recent years. A hospital proposal could help to make recruitment to vacancies, possibly the cessation of unnecessary jobs, easier in the coming year. The current situation with recruitment problems in the sector and a six-month notice period would be less problematic if, in the summer preceding the budget period, the necessary signals had been given to take the necessary steps to meet the staffing needs that you have met in the coming year. With regard to the need for maintenance, initial investment and structural changes to existing building stock and equipment, this will also be easier to implement if a separate proposition is put in place that reflects the political expectations of the results achieved. It has been highlighted here that if you put in place a separate hospital proposal, it will, among other things. be problematic in being able to see community health and specialist health services in the context. Furthermore, it has been pointed out earlier today that it is difficult to control resources towards the community health service with an annual hospital proposal. No, it's the exact opposite! Let's go back a few years in time, to when we had minority government. It could then be seen that changes were made in December, for example. The ISF share or other items in the budget that had implications as of 1 January. It is then difficult to plan these changes. That's why we also got a lot of backlog by catching up on the decisions that were taken. The rapporteur was also concerned with the problems between the municipal health service and the specialist health service. Yeah, that's weird, because the municipality has its annual proposition, which is promoted before summer. It would have been natural for hospitals to have also had the planning tool that municipalities have. We're talking about a very big business. We're talking about a lot of employees, who have been exposed to conversions almost at any time in recent years. It has also been a wish of hospital directors and health care professionals to put in place a better economic governance tool. It's missing per. today, and it would have been desirable if you had got it in place. However, I see that the Progress Party is the only party that today wants to put in place such an economic governance tool in order to plan business and investment for the future. Of course, I accept that per cent. the current date is not a majority in favour of it, but promotes the proposal and hopes that one at least at a later stage will be able to join it. In fact, I believe that hospitals and healthcare in general need more tools to manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1418	Let me first of all, on behalf of the Health and Welfare Committee, wish the President well! The health plagues that have struck the president confirm the truth that it is about health as it was: the more you talk about it, the worse it gets. I already suggested in the budget debate earlier today Right's view of the proposal for a separate hospital proposal, but would like to elaborate it a little bit. The fact is that very large parts of the Norwegian population live in the error that the healthcare system and the specialist healthcare service are two names on the same page. It is linked to the fact that the hospital service is the part of the health service that is subject to continuous media surveillance and that is constantly receiving crisis response in the media, especially around the turn of the year. It easily creates the wrong perception that there are problems exclusively in the specialist health service and that there are only specialist health services who know where the shoe prints. I think we've come so far in common in this room that we see the need to correct that picture, and that we see the need to make people understand what you've put on the simple formula that the 'hospital crisis' must be resolved outside the hospitals. In this context, distinguishing the specialist healthcare service, making it the subject of a separate annual proposition to the Stortinge, would be to go in a different direction to what is justified in today's situation. So I would like to stress that the reason why we spend a whole day discussing the annual budget proposal is that it is the one to be the management tool, that is, where the government is going to draw up the lines both for the coming years and beyond, and why one wants to dispose of the funds as proposed. That's when the Storting has the opportunity to agree or disagree, that's when we have the opportunity to enter our own views on the overall governance, under the management of the specialist health service. I don't think it would give us any better control or better control tools if we were to say to weaken the concentration of work on the annual budget proposal for the Ministry of Health and Welfare and instead start making special propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1427	I'll be brief. The parties to the Government agree with the reasons for the suspension of the case by the rapporteur and also with the representative on the pay side. I would like to add that the very purpose of the Nesvik representative's proposal and contributions to creating predictability, etc., I believe that the whole committee agrees that we should do better. But that long-termity and predictability we have set out to create primarily through the National Health Plan, which is also in the budget this time. I am aware that the representative Nesvik will object that it is not such a governance tool as it is now designed, but the Committee should endeavour in its budgetary work to explore how we will develop the health plan as the tool it should be to create long-term care in relation to hospitals, but also in relation to the overall health care system, on which the representative was involved. In the case of other major changes that the health service should know about before the budget comes, and that it is too late to harvest, it must be ensured that any government, when more extensive discussions and preparations are required, must take responsibility for providing supplementary messages and bets in a different way than to include them in the budget. That is where we have big business messages in all sectors as a tool. Nor is it the case, as stated in the justification given by representative Nesvik, that the ISF rates have jumped up and down. They have remained stable for 40-60 in this period of expansion, and the government parties have done so. So the idea of creating long-term is that there is agreement, but I think we are now going to focus on the tools we have, and that the committee can also contribute more there in the next round, especially in relation to the national health plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1438	I feel the need to make some views on what the Storting is now discussing, because I understand the intentions behind the proposal by the representative Nesvik and others. from the Party of Advancement. The representative of Nesvik has a point in his speech when he says it is important that the Storting should be given the opportunity to discuss the whole of Health-Norway's challenges, and I agree that the most important document in this way is St.prp. No So 1 is in the budget. At the same time, however, we must assume that much of the Health-Norway budget is being dealt with in connection with the position of the Municipal Committee. That is why it can be said that the debate we have today, yes, is about the challenges of Health-Norway, but the budget we are discussing does not address the overall challenges of Health-Norway. That is why I think it is necessary for us to discuss further how the Government should be able to invite the Stortinget to a more comprehensive, overall debate on the way in which Health Norway is now going, for example. is given the opportunity to discuss whether the main challenges now lie in strengthening the primary health service, which parts of the primary health service, whether it is going to be at the expense of something else — i.e. having a slightly more general, overall priority debate at all. Therefore, it is my intention to further develop the national health plan in such a way that I will not now rule out the next time that the national health plan, for example. may come as a separate notification or proposition to the Stortinget – not necessarily in the autumn together with the State budget, but in advance of the final rounds relating to the budget. This would not be the same as the municipal bill, but at least it would be an opportunity for the Stortinget to participate in an overall health policy debate at some point earlier than during the final reading of the budget. Without my being able to promise anything now, I am working to look at the possibility of presenting such a large-scale report or a downturn in spring 2010, so that we can have a slightly more comprehensive debate after the interaction reform has been presented, as early as possible in the next major period, so that it can form the basis for what we are going to do with Health-Norway in the four years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1445	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1461	The objectives of Norwegian Svalbard policy are set. This includes, inter alia: a consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty, based on the Svalbard Treaty, involves peace and stability in the region and the preservation of the unique wilderness nature of Svalbard. It is also an objective to maintain Norwegian settlement, Norwegian communities and Norwegian presence on the island group. The objectives of Svalbard policy are part of the whole of the entire Northern Region policy of the Government. A sustained commitment to Svalbard is in line with this policy. As indicated in the budget statement, there is a broad consensus in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the proposed Svalbard budget for 2009. It's positive. The framework for the Svalbard budget for next year is about 230 million. kr, an increase of 4,7 pst. from this year. In addition, appropriations amounting to about 307 million. kr on the budgets of other departments. Of the main investments for next year, I will highlight new power plants in New Zealand, enhanced environmental monitoring at Svalbard, increased funding for the Norwegian Polar Institute, several recruitment positions, enhanced coordination of research at Svalbard and increased funding for the University Centre at Svalbard, UNIS, next year. So some comments about important aspects of the Svalbard community. The education and research sector is one of the pillars of the Norwegian presence at Svalbard. Svalbard is a unique venue for international research cooperation in the north. Together with the New Ålesund research community, UNIS will be at the heart of a strong knowledge and research environment on polar issues. The 2007-2008 International Polar Year has given a major boost to polar research. Many of the projects take place on or at Svalbard. In total, approx. 50 000 researchers from 63 countries in different research programmes. The international polar year has mobilised a great deal of interest in the Norwegian professional communities. Total allocations for the Polar Year amounted to 320 million. For more than four years, Norway has become a central player in the international research programme. Although education and research are growing in Svalbard, other industries are still crucial for the Norwegian presence. Travel life has become important in Svalbard, and the tourism industry contributes to important value creation up there. But it's challenging to do travel life activities on Svalbard. The vulnerable environment must be safeguarded and travel life activities on the island group must therefore be adapted to the environment. Together with knowledge and travel life, the activities of the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani AS remain essential for maintaining the Norwegian community at Svalbard. By the end of 2007, the Great Norwegian Group had 396 employees, representing a significant proportion of the residents of Svalbard. The question of the further development of coal activities at Svalbard will have to be one of several key issues when a new Svalbard forecast is to be presented to the Spring 2009 Stortinget. Climate change with the melting of ice in the Arctic will also have an impact on Svalbard. More open waters make areas that were previously inaccessible, more attractive, both for transport and for possible extraction of resources. This development will make even greater demands for a clear Norwegian presence on and around Svalbard for the future. With this, I recommend the vote by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1487	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1503	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set to 10 minutes, and for the other speakers to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three sequences with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1510	Today is a historic day. Today, a mile is reached. Through an increase in the allowance for international assistance of 17,5 pst. reaches us the goal of 1 pst. of our national income should go to the poorest in the world. By decision later this evening, another point of the Soria Moria declaration can be crossed by following up. That is good, but still the least important aspect of the decision today. No one lives on percentages. Nevertheless, the grants for assistance are increased by 38 p.m., or, more importantly, by 8.3 billion kroner. This allows Norway to contribute to the fight for a fairer value and to the fight against poverty. Every year, Norwegian efforts save thousands of lives and improve the quality of life of very many people living in poor countries. Fortunately, the number of people living in absolute poverty in the world has fallen. However, there will still be a need for assistance in the foreseeable future. If we are to be able to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals, more people need to do just like Norway and increase their permissions to help. Without assistance, developments in the world will stop, and the Millennium Goals will be out of reach. Some suggest that assistance is in conflict with other developmental measures and that more and more free trade is the only way to achieve success. This is not the case. At the same time, of course, aid is not enough either. However, assistance is crucial. In addition, it is important to establish a fairer trading system, a clear system of rules and conflict resolution mechanisms. Special allowances or customs freedom for the least developed countries have shown that market access alone is not enough. One must have something to export. A system of approval, quality control, marketing, logistics and transport is crucial. Aid for Trade has proved to be an important tool. Other forms of knowledge transfer are also important, whether it is the obligation to establish effective laws, the concession system for natural resources, tax legislation or control systems. In addition, it is important that developing countries have the opportunity to develop their own functioning business. Missing capital is a problem in many countries. High risk also prevents access to non-resident private capital. Different risk capital schemes are therefore important. Norfund is a very important Norwegian instrument to achieve this. Different forms of microcredit are also important. In addition to capital, Norfund and others may contribute to the transfer of competences, contacts with other international institutions and private businesses. There is today a great deal of popular outreach about Norwegian aid and development policy. If this build-up is to be held by layers, control and follow-up are essential. Lookups of money on diversions, poor projects and misuse of funds are very damaging. Better control is therefore important, and I am glad that this will increase the focus, and that one will increase resources for this purpose. It is also very positive that the Riksrevision has focused more on this area. More surprising is that this is one of the areas where the Right Cuts. Of course, corruption and misuse of aid are the worst for the countries that become the framework. In many countries, corruption is so widespread that it is one of the main obstacles to development. It is therefore particularly important to focus on the fight against corruption and on control and transparency. All indications suggest that the least developed countries and the poorest and most marginalised populations are and will be the hardest victims of climate change. It is also important that the world gathers about leading an active and good climate policy to contribute to a positive development for the poorest countries and their inhabitants. One of the biggest global environmental problems is deforestation. Much of this deforestation is taking place in developing countries. Missing alternative nutritional basis is an important cause of forest resource mining. Norwegian efforts to combat deforestation in developing countries, for an internationally recognised forest use system in climate policy and large financial contributions to forest conservation have many positive effects. In addition to taking care of the global climate, this is important for the local environment. Taking care of the forest also takes care of biodiversity, traditional lifestyles and local resource use. International action against deforestation will also provide an alternative basis for life and nutrition. Norwegian forestry conservation efforts in developing countries are good development policies. I therefore disagree with those who try to make it a big point that deforestation measures are part of the aid budget. All measures are, of course, ODA-approved schemes, and the effort to preserve the forest does not go beyond more traditional assistance such as education and health. I'm a big fan of Norway focusing on the areas where we have special knowledge, or where we can contribute beyond purely economic. Such an area is energy. Oil for development is an important program and a good concept for knowledge transfer. But Norway also has special knowledge of renewable energy, especially of hydropower. Lack of sustainable, stable and reasonable energy supply, especially on the current, is a major problem in many countries. This hinders both the development of a viable business and of a functioning public sector. Many countries today rely on imports of expensive oil into low-efficiency power plants or on impurity coal, even though they are rich in renewable energy resources. In my view, this is a region of Norway, with our knowledge, should have focused more on. Maybe we should get a new program that could be called Clean Energy for Development – with a special focus on water power. With new knowledge and technology, a few can provide very gentle hydropower development almost without intervention, which could provide access to clean, stable and reasonable energy in many developing countries, and which would be crucial for the growth, development and prosperity of the inhabitants of these countries. Norwegian companies, especially SN Power, but also regional energy companies can play an important role here. When it comes to foreign government, the Government is presenting a strong and offensive budget with a growth of more than 10 pst. The North Sea bet must continue. By putting this area higher on the national agenda, the Government has contributed to increasing international interest in the specific challenges facing this area in terms of both security policy issues, resource challenges and climate change. It is important for the further development in the north that we can get international attention about the area. Our main partners in achieving peaceful and sustainable development in the north are Russia. It is important to cooperate with Russia on as many concrete issues as possible. Resource issues are particularly important in this bilateral cooperation. Breaking down the barriers that are for normal activity across borders is also very important. Hopefully, new visa rules can ease the interaction between our two countries. I also hope that the work of special rules for those who live in border areas will bear fruit. Increasing trade, cultural cooperation, energy and fisheries cooperation and increasing tourism are areas that will help bind our two countries closer together. While working with Russia on concrete challenges, Norway needs to be clearly informed when there are developments in the country that we do not like. This applies to both the democratic developments in Russia, Russia's behaviour towards third countries and Russian foreign policy in general. Norway was united with the international community in its criticism of Russia's acts of war in Georgia this summer. The lesson from the war acts between Russia and Georgia must be that weapons use is not the way to resolve these types of conflicts. Worst of course, this happened to those who became direct frames, but all those involved were actually losers after the war. Georgia suffers great loss. Even if Russia won a military say, it has also suffered great economic losses and not least an enormous loss of reputation. Breaking international conflict management rules will cost. Next year, the mission in Afghanistan will be the most important one for our military forces abroad. The situation in the country gives cause for concern. We need a broad approach to solving the challenges in that country, and I am pleased that there is a joint committee that ends up on the strategy of the Government for its Afghanistan policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1565	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1568	It is claimed by the Workers' Party that it is important to contribute to the creation of growth by developing countries through increased trade, that the production of goods and services is a prerequisite for trade, and that the processing of raw materials provides the basis for jobs and business clusters that are essential for countries to climb the development path. Despite these beautiful words, we sadly see little from the party in terms of instruments to achieve this. You keep going in the same old tracks that don't work. If you want to develop your business, you have to invest in it. The opposition parties are today promoting a joint proposal to clarify this. Why is there resistance from the Workers' Party to this investigation, all the time so clearly said to be devoted to the development of the economy in developing countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1579	I think that in practical policy we have shown that we want a broad approach to help other countries to have a positive development in their economy. Market access is one of the most important measures in this area, which is why this government has implemented special incentives for a good number of countries. We want to bet actively on Aid for Trade, and Norway has been an active driver for a new trade agreement through the WTO. So in a range of areas, Norway will help get the deal up. In addition, assistance will be crucial because many countries do not have the resources to participate in international trade. We believe that today we have the tools that are needed to achieve a policy where we have a positive development in the countries that are now following.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1588	It's quite creative to draw the conclusion that Right is working for poorer control of corruption, but that's not my question. After the climate agreement, the Right had expected that measures against forest degradation and deforestation would be carried out in parts of the budget other than under development and assistance, but now it is there, and in a way it will be an accounting matter whether it is included in the assistance or not. We agree with much of what Akselsen said in her article on the importance of climate action and forest measures. But does the Labour Party still agree that there is a need for a borderline rise and clarification of development-related measures under climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1597	Firstly, I thought it was bold of the Right to ask this question, because the Right has solved this in its own way by cutting aid and transferring to the poorest countries and thereby freed resources that they can use in other areas. Then, of course, I fully agree that there should be no carte blanche or that you should be able to bring all kinds of expenses into the aid budget. However, I have experienced that very often it is the opposite of the challenge, namely that the international running rules we have in this area, the ODA rules, are so rigid and difficult that they were a bigger challenge than trying to sneak in expenses that don't belong there. I can at least confirm that, for the Workers' Party, it is so that the money to go over the aid budget should go to help. Openness about these money is important, and it is not least important that one makes it possible to check that the money leads to what is desired, that is, a positive development for the countries that accept these money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1604	The Chairman of the Committee used much of his intervention to congratulate himself, the Government and the Workers' Party on meeting the 1 pst objective. in assistance. It's a celebration I like to participate in, even though I have my point of view on how to achieve this – I'm going to come back to that in my post. The representative Aksensen was injured to say that the Soria Moria statement has been met. Then I must recall the Akssen on what is in the Soria Moria Declaration. The Government will: ‘that the appropriations for development cooperation reach the target of 1 per cent of GNI and that the effort subsequently escalates further during the period’. My question to the representative Aksen is whether he does not agree that this objective has not yet been met. My next question is how the representative Aksen will make sure that there will be an escalation beyond 1 pst. during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1616	There's something called self-crust to listen to, because it comes from the heart. In this case, I think we all have reason to rejoice over the situation today. When we make a decision, we have a common feeling that Norway is giving us 1 pst. of gross national income for development purposes. Then, in several debates, I've been busy with the fact that percent is important, because it gives us something to reach for. Still, what's most important is heads and ears. Developments in this period have shown that we use more dollars – 8.3 billion more – than we did at the beginning of this period. It provides Norway with enormous opportunities to contribute in this area. I mean the Soria Moria statement is now fulfilled, but at the same time it's important to have new goals to reach. So we also know that partly this percentage is determined by the price of oil. And it's not unlikely that when we do the math at half past half this year, we're far above the one percent, if the oil price goes down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1623	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1627	In all crises, there are also changes that may contribute to something positive. Let's hope that's the case with the global financial crisis that we're now in, because changing power relationships between energy producers and energy importers can be such a change. A new administration in the United States involves a changed image and can also provide new opportunities in the global arena. Norway must also demonstrate flexibility in its approach and contribute to solutions that, hopefully, can mitigate the effects of the crisis on the most vulnerable. The Progress Party is today promoting a proposal that addresses this problem, namely the impact of the financial crisis on developing countries. We ask the Government to assess whether there are measures that can give countries a boost, at a time that is difficult for everyone, but that for some may be a question of survival. Parts of Africa, Latin America and Asia have experienced financial crises, democratic crises and health crises for decades. To them, unfortunately, the current crisis is not a new one, but more a confirmation of how it is all too often. Even in good years, they do not have the power to rise and establish sustainable markets, democracy that chooses uncorrupted leaders, or make necessary investments in the health of people. The recipe of the rich countries has been either to forget the problem or to provide assistance. The countries that were forgotten in relation to assistance, or for various reasons the power to stop the flow of aid, have often proved to be better off than those who have remained as beneficiaries. We are many who occasionally throw themselves out on the outside, and who dare say something about what the future will bring. We don't always meet as well. Therefore, some have to resort to the noble art of the afterworld clock. And that you can't always see the consequences of your own policy before it's tested is not remarkable. But when you almost consistently reject the results when they're documented, it's amazing. The Progress Party is probably not better at predicting than others, but we have constantly warned in this Chamber that an excessive aid policy would not bring Africa out of poverty. While Mugabe received Norwegian assistance, we pointed out how wrong this was. Ten years ago – almost at this time in this room – we warned that Zimbabwe was on the verge of ruin. The majority also considered that it was too early to conclude on the issue of Norwegian aid to Zimbabwe. Our warnings were rejected, not even seriously debated. The result is now – for everyone to see. We have managed to keep Mugabe in power, we gave him the basis he needed – yes, Norway turned, but unfortunately too late. The question is how many other such cases we will get in the future by continuing to hold Heads of State to power that does not have a legitimate basis for sitting there, whether there were free elections. We tolerate criticism of our aid policy. It can definitely be improved, and we're constantly working on it. But when the representative Åslaug Haga in a press release today accuses us of destroying Norway's reputation, the pieces begin to fall into place. The Progress Party is working on development policies to reduce poverty and provide economic growth. We listen to people in the south who experience Norwegian politics on the body. We've tried to learn from past experiences. If we had the aim of increasing Norway's reputation among like-minded countries and international organisations, we would probably have chosen a different policy. But if it's the Center Party's agricultural protectionism that's the answer to a better reputation, we're doubtful about it. And if our proposal for a large fund for investment in developing countries is negative to our reputation, I am also uncertain about. I think we have to handle this with reputation. We accept to be the second best in reputation, as long as we're the best in development. Macroeconomic assistance has failed. It has helped to ensure that the necessary changes and reforms have never reached many countries. It has not provided the basis for economic growth. Therefore, it is important to have a policy that replaces traditional assistance with other instruments. It's not just about trade, but it's also about trade. It's about giving countries that choose democracy an opportunity to get rid of old debts. This is about investment in energy and in the private sector. It's about helping to get organized in the form of ensuring that basic health challenges are met, and getting an inclusive education. We therefore do not reject assistance as one of several instruments — moderately dosed and never dominant, but supportive for use in countries that show willingness to reform and need assistance. In our alternative budget in the autumn, we spend more than 16 billion kroner on aid, including the 1.2 billion kroner we have allocated to health measures on our foreign budget. 16 billion would be a very large aid budget just a few years ago. If we've found the right balance, we can't be quite sure. I am less sure if the distribution of our 16 billion is optimal, but I am convinced that our budget option, with more open trade and start-up work on a large-scale investment fund for the poorest, is far preferable to the more traditional budget presented by the Government. Few rural areas have received as much assistance over time as the Palestinian area of self-government. Unfortunately, there is little to suggest that the benefit of this assistance has been positive. The situation is complex, and is, of course, about more than assistance. But it must be a cross of thought when Fafo can prove that the majority of the Palestinian population believes the aid has had a negative effect. Now concentrate the assistance to the administration of Abbas. Nevertheless, we experience continuously that e.g. Fatah-controlled media presents hate propaganda. This is particularly serious when child TV for Palestinian children is used continuously to convey a message that all of Israel belongs to the Palestinians and that Jews have no value as human beings. If we cannot reverse the development of the idea of hating one another, peace will never be achieved. In that perspective, we believe that Norway cannot be aware of supporting groups financially that are prolonging hatred and moving further away from a more peaceful solution. We fully agree that there are also challenges on the Israeli side, absolutely, and that should be criticised when necessary. But Norway does not provide assistance to Israel, and it gives us special responsibility for what is happening on the Palestinian side. In particular, it is relevant in a budgetary context. We recently experienced a violent act of terror in India, which hit the Indian population strongly, while the action had a distinct anti-Western and anti-Jewish influence over it. It therefore merges into the range of terrorist acts directed towards the West. The fight against terrorism is not won, and unfortunately this action was a reminder of how important it is to continue the fight against the kind of extremism we saw here, as we see in Afghanistan, and which we unfortunately also experience in between in Norway. The fight against extreme attitudes and violence is also a struggle for values. Tomorrow we will mark the 60th anniversary of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. It has been an important contribution to fundamental values and freedoms. Unfortunately, after 60 years, human rights are not accepted. There are things that indicate that some areas are going in the wrong direction. The UN Human Rights Council is now convening a Durban II conference in April, where racism and freedom of expression should be the main themes. Like the previous conference, we are afraid that this conference will be able to trace the desire of some countries to restrict freedom of expression and once again give way to anti-Israeli attitudes. It seems that some countries have an agenda in relation to using these kinds of conferences in a negative way, as we experience it. It is important that countries such as Norway are clear and show a distance from all types of proposals and interventions that support this. We will not now ask Norway to withdraw from the conference. Canada and Israel have done it. But if we are to fail in reaching out with our message, it must also be assessed. We believe it would be more effective to be present and hit hard on the table and defend freedom of speech than to be absent. Sometimes you have to threaten to stay. However, if the Norwegian delegation does not intend to beat the table and defend the rights and values we believe in, then the option to get away better. The party of progress, together with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, makes a proposal on this matter here in the Chamber today. Hopefully, the proposal should be relatively uncontroversial and something to which the whole Storting can subscribe. I would also like to address the other proposals that the Progress Party is promoting in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1657	The representative Morten Høglund has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1662	Once again, the Progress Party’s budget is ‘hinside’ of any other proposals put forward here in the Chamber today. I agree that if this is implemented, Norway will still be in the international scandalous hook – I don't think that's the most important point, I'm not going to focus on all the cuts this year either – but then the Progress Party will actually have to increase the rewards in its own budget. It is such that when you read the budget, you can easily compare what is decided from year to year. It's not that easy to compare, it's what the opposition suggests, and it's going to be downgraded. But if you look at the Progress Party's alternative budget last year, and when you compare it with that from this year on, you'll see that there's an area that has a little surprising growth in the path, and it's supported to the UN's Palestinian Refugees' Body, UNRWA, where the Progress Party has five-fold support from last year to this year. Since this has not appeared in any way in the notes or from the speaker's chair, it would be interesting to know what has happened to the Progress Party, as they suddenly feel that it is so important to prioritize this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1669	The representative Akselsen uses words such as ‘hinsides’ and ‘shrinks’. In the case of the ODA share, which others are busy with, we're at 0.62. We're actually approaching the Monterrey requirement – if that's a goal. It's now better than a lot of other countries, which I don't think the representative Akselsen would use that kind of word about. We've done dramatic cuts on UNRWA before. We've changed the cut, it's quite correctly observed. In the past, we have also shown our willingness to adjust our draft budgets in line with what is more realistic to achieve in the budget. I guess our first cut is within such a frame and a correction of what we had before. There is no significant change in policy, but it is simply what is budgetaryly manageable in relation to the changed frameworks that UNRWA will have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1676	The Progress Party is committed to contributing to a strong international focus on the fight against corruption. Corruption is theft of the poorest, we're sure to agree on that. I therefore call for the Progress Party in the fight against tax havens – against tax evasion from poor countries. This is a phenomenon that makes the flow of money go from poor countries to particularly rich companies in the north, with no transparency. Without the tax havens, it would not have been possible to hide away the corruption money. The representatives of the Progress Party have previously praised tax havens because they lead to a healthy tax competition. If the representative Höglund agrees with his party traps, I would say that the proposal to alleviate the financial crisis is not a believer, because the fight against tax havens is important for the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1683	Having a global policy, drawing up a framework for all countries' tax policies, we have not seen good examples of. We don't know if that's useful either. Tax policy is a national issue. That countries have different profiles and different policies in this area, we accept. We think that most of the work in this area is very little feasible. The fact that there is competition here also contributes to the intensification of the interstates. We agree that there are outcomes and examples that contribute to a negative impact on many developing countries in this area, but it is primarily about addressing the administrative systems of these countries – tax collection, the rule of law, etc. – and make sure they see that they have earned their money in their countries. We know that this is a great job to do. We don't think we're going to solve the challenge that Mr. Ågot Valle is addressing here, by proposing to put down the so-called tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1692	There is a big difference between the Progress Party and the other parties in development policy. Now the installation was not very surprising, but I have to say that I'm starting to wonder when I read the setting, where the Progress Party says that ‘Un-countries need fair trade rather than aid, precisely in order to maintain self-respect and to avoid being surrounded by merciful Samaritans who are only concerned with putting themselves on pedestals through alms and politically correct opinions’. I interpret the Progress Party so that they think that assistance has been lost, and they don't see that assistance is important in order to get to trading. Can a also interpret the Progress Party so that they think that there is no longer any use for merciful Samaritans?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1702	Of course, there is a need for merciful Samaritans, but – as we point out – everything in a way. That many from the rich part of the world have had some agenda for their aid exposure, we believe is right. We have, as I pointed out, a total aid budget of NOK 16 billion, as we put it. This does not mean that we reject aid as an instrument, but we believe it has been used excessively as a tool in development policy. This has resulted in many countries, not least in Africa, having a client/sacrifice role that has not served them. Governments in these countries are now more prepared to collect new donor crowns than to create a basis for economic growth in their own countries and for their own inhabitants. It's a negative spiral that we somehow have to break.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1709	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1712	There are currently an unusual number of assumptions and framework interactions affecting the budget for foreign and development policy. It was clearly expressed during the conference on financing for development in Doha a week ago. In the Norwegian background note, it was stated – as the Council of State did in its good main post – why the aid needs to be put in place in an overall context, including: the financial crisis as well as the food crisis to be relevant, and for the main Norwegian priorities, which are: measures against tax evasion and capital evasion, as well as the need for the regulation of financial markets equality and women's rights climate action where the background note states that aid for development should not be at the expense of development, while the Council of State stated in its statement that climate adaptation and development are synonymous with the need to strengthen the influence of developing countries in the international financial architecture of debt and indebtedness issues; Consistent with the 2009 budget, Chapter 8.2, under the heading «Government's thematic areas of activity»: ‘The Government will continue its work in the main areas of activity where Norway can contribute the most. These are the environment and sustainable development; peace building, human rights and humanitarian aid; oil and clean energy; women and equality; good governance and the fight against corruption; and efforts in the health-related Millennium Goals.» I'm not going to go into the somewhat persistent relationship between the main thematic priorities and the number budget itself. I want to focus on the growing understanding – both at home and abroad – that development policy is much more than aid, and that other factors can be as important as assistance to achieve positive and sustainable development. This was also the main conclusion of the inquiry carried out on development policy in spring 2008, where we also met the fact that the total resources we are going to invest in this work could be significantly larger than today, but probably spread in different budgets. As an example, after the climate agreement, the Right saw that the rainforest rate would be budgeted outside the aid budget and the aid rate. Now that's included. It raises the question of delimitation — but also re-updates the ODA criteria under DAC. It will be clarifying and important for the Ministry to return to Stortinget, for example: in the announced New Year Development Communication — with a deepening of what is relevant to development climate action. I understand that the Council of State sees overall objectives for activities based in the two different departments he manages. However, for Storting’s control function and political governance, it is essential to have clarity as to where the appropriations belong. The difference between the government's thematic areas of activity in the budget and the main priorities presented in Doha also illustrates another growing problem for the Storting and political governance and control. The long lines in this policy area are increasingly the subject of international conferences, which may be the subject of final documents, declarations or communications, where countries agree to commitments and also long-term indicative commitments. The question is whether one then is based on a sufficiently agreed basis at home, or whether the Stortinget, among other things, the annual budget presents a policy which has been given a binding direction in advance. If such a situation develops too far, I realize that the government is not alone with responsibility. It is commendable that the Government is active and driving on behalf of Norway in international processes and is present in key arenas. However, if this approach becomes comprehensive, government and enlargement have a role to play in developing a form of work between themselves that adequately respects the ability of the Stortinge and the ability to control and influence the priorities. In the field of foreign policy, the relationship between the Government’s prerogative and the influence of the Storting is balanced by consultations within the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. The development policy area is different. Now there are other limitations to the influence of the Storting. Control and management of new innovative financial instruments is one example. I think about goals, target management, administrative control and audit. It must be an objective that such capital flows are made visible in the public budgets of the beneficiary countries and that transparency is continuous. It does not seem particularly reliable when, according to the daily newspaper yesterday, State Council Solheim will have stated the following about the Norwegian proposal to finance climate adaptation measures in the poor countries of the world – and I quote: ‘The aim of the proposal is to provide secure funding that goes beyond the annual budgetary processes and the ‘clumsy hands’ of finance departments around the world.’ To the extent that new financial instruments are the result of numerous small individual contributions from many individuals to different transactions, I think a should be prepared that there will be similar numbers who expect transparency and feedback on use, efficiency and achievement. Here we expect the Council of State to explain how this is planned prospectively. Some examples from the current year are illustrative. Before the June matt meeting in Rome, we challenged the Council of State on Norwegian main positions in an interpellation debate. Earlier in this period — and in the previous period — the size of the population has underlined the importance of agriculture in development policy as part of poverty reduction, but the Council of State said little about what Norway should contribute, nor does the budget reflect the call of the Storting to focus on agricultural development. The Ministry's answer to the Committee's questions about agriculture, I see as a reference to the fact that in an international division of labour, the other person is able to deal with this. For the Council of State's relationship with the Storting, it should be somewhat problematic. The Accra conference, followed by the Paris Declaration, was held in early September, while the Stortinge feriered. On the other hand, before the Doha Conference on Financing for Development, we went a new interpellation to the Council of State. Even if Doha were to focus on a broad agenda, we would like to make sure that the positive further development of Accra on the effectiveness of assistance, evaluation and further strengthening of the ownership of beneficiary countries was part of the Doha Final Document. Such continuation was also embedded in the Accra Declaration. For Norwegian assistance, Accra says important things about quality requirements in the management systems of the beneficiary countries and that this can be monitored. As a prerequisite for using budget support, the Right considers this to be absolutely essential. In the interview debate, there was broad agreement on the importance of evaluation, efficiency development and capacity building assumptions for recipients, but in Doha Norway did not include this, and Accra is also not very visible in the Doha document. It was disappointing, and I see it as a down-priority on the part of the Council of State. In the field of development policy, the representatives of both government and enlargement are responsible for two different groups: the voters here at home and the recipients outside. Although we can be enthusiastic about new innovative agendas, such as in finance and in climate, it is important to maintain ground contact. Our sponsors simply ask, was there anything out of it in relation to the effort? If we don't have a clear answer to that, it's likely that trust in this policy is gradually eroded in our society. A stronger commitment from the Council of State to the Accra agenda had been a step in the right direction. In conclusion — summary some other important themes in 2009: Right-wing support for the priority of action in Afghanistan, and that reciprocity between military and security activities and constructive civil action is crucial. The Litmus test here is whether the local population feels occupied, or whether someone is increasingly gaining their trust. The participation of Norway in the Congo depends on whether we have suitable capacities. In any case, the assumption must be that the mission is based in the UN, that the African Union is involved, and that the force has a superior size in this difficult land area. In parallel, a coordinated political pressure must be placed on the parties involved, and the world community must have prepared to follow up on a comprehensive humanitarian action. The situation in Congo, Sudan and Somalia is updating the UN’s work on Responsibility to Protect, R2P, in 2009. We expect Norway to engage in the work we see the United Nations intend to do in this area. In the budget, we are sceptical as to whether the situation in the Middle East provides a basis for increased Norwegian efforts. Nothing would please us more than if we were wrong, and if, for example. a new American administration would create movement between the parties. And finally, the right view is that business development is an important part of development policy, but has noticed the different statements about the activities of NORFUND recently. It is particularly important that publicly owned enterprises are aware of Corporate Social Responsibility, and we warn against entering into partnerships that hamper the realisation of such obligations. Right will also inform us that we support the Christian People's Party's proposals for priorities within the now adopted extended framework of Framework Area 4, i.e. Proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1779	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1783	The representative of Vallersnes is closely involved in development policy and assistance. This is probably also one of the reasons why the Right has followed up the aid policy that has been pursued in recent years. In his contribution, the representative was, among others: be subject to control of the location of the means of assistance. Then I have to ask: is it not very special that the right-hand position in the financial situation cuts the allocation to the Department's administration of development aid by 10 million? NOK and the operating costs of NORAD of 20 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Is not the problem at present that the aid budget has increased sharply, while the management of the aid budget has been still, and that there may also be a problem in terms of effectiveness, in terms of the possibilities for implementation, and not least in terms of control?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1790	For our part, we think it's possible to streamline the administration in most places, and we can't see that it's happened to the extent that we could expect in those administrations. But I don't want to draw any similarity between that and reducing efforts, for example. against corruption. We are very concerned that in terms of monitoring, evaluation, follow-up of management systems in the recipient countries and those kinds of things, it must be embedded in the projects and programmes initially as part of the cost of implementing the programme. That's what we're missing, and we think it should have been done more. We think it's far too small is prospectively plotted how we're going to do this as part of the activities, and not just as an activity for ourselves at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1795	Marshall Help is considered one of the great historical successes. The help contained both project support and budget support. I see that the Right expresses great concern at the budgetary support practice that we have in Norway. One might also wonder if not all the billions that have been spent in recent years on military assets – such as in Afghanistan and Gaza – could have been used for example. for budget support. But there is another debate. But what we know is that the reason why there is a certain amount of attention around the debate inside this Chamber is that this means something, because money goes through this Parliament. Here in Stortinget, you care from Honningsvåg to Arendal about what's going on. It must also be part of Norwegian aid that he goes through a political debate and creates political processes in the recipient countries. Does the Right not see that this is also a good effect of using budget support?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1802	An excellent question -- I'm very concerned about the topic. I know that, among other things, SV, quite rightly, has been concerned about the conditionality of assistance and development. In terms of political conditionality, whether it's about free trade or privatisation, I understand that. However, we are concerned that, in terms of the use of budget support, it must be possible, as the Accra Final Document has also formulated, to set quality requirements for the management systems of the beneficiary country, in particular with regard to the economy and financial management, and to monitor the development of quality parameters in those systems. You might not initially have a good enough quality, but you're willing to develop it in the right direction. If that situation exists, we believe that there is also a basis for using budgetary support. But if there's no such situation, and you're not willing to go through a development of the quality of the management systems, we're against using it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1809	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1812	We are very pleased that the 1 pst goal will be achieved next year. At the same time, I fully agree with the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes and others who have said that it is becoming increasingly clear that development is about something more than assistance. Evolution is about shifting power. At the conference on financing for development in Doha – there will be many references to this conference here – there was one who said: we don't get what we deserve, we get what we negotiate. In other words, if the poor and poor countries are to make progress, they must be given the strength to negotiate and place at the table they are negotiating. It is good that the narrow circle of countries in the G8 has expanded with central countries, to the G20. But important decisions must be dealt with in the forum where all countries can sit at the table and be present, namely in the United Nations. Nor can we leave the main task of resolving the crises that have arisen after the reigns of neoliberalism to those institutions, the World Bank and the IMF, which, according to Reagan and Thatcher, have practiced neoliberal demands against developing countries. Their demands led to smaller countries, more deregulation and privatisation, less opportunity for the authorities of the sea to find solutions and to be responsible to their own population for the solutions adopted. If the bulk of the funds and measures needed to resolve current crises are mainly added to these institutions, the result may be less legitimacy and less willingness among developing countries to resolve the most serious crisis of all, namely climate crisis. The main work needs to be done in the UN, but it is precisely for this reason that Norway and other countries continue to work to improve the effectiveness of the UN. At the conference on financing for development in Doha, the issue was this: should the financial crisis be followed up by the G20, the World Bank and the IMF, or should the job be done in the UN, as the developing countries are working for? Fortunately, the final statement stated that the financial crisis should also be followed up in the UN, and Norway supported this requirement. Several believe that the financial crisis is only limited in the developing countries. It arose in the rich part of the world, but it is striking hard in the poorest countries, despite the fact that it was not the poorest who contributed to the crisis. But it is, as always, the poorest who pay the highest price when the system fails. Those who were not winners after years of economic globalisation will have to take a large part of the bill in terms of money that would have been spent on securing the basis of existence – food production, clean water, necessary infrastructure, health care and education. The results of financial speculation are reflected in the real economy, into production — for example: in Bangladesh: the textile sector comprises approximately two thirds of total export revenue. Only in September the orders for textiles from the United States and the EU fell by a total of 7 pst. A total of 2.5 million people work in this sector, and most of them are women. If the rich countries fail in the promise to reach 0.7 pst. as a result of GNI in development aid, several countries may fall into declining poverty. That is why it is necessary, not only morally, for rich countries such as Norway to commit themselves and also to fulfil their obligations, and therefore it is particularly important that we achieve the 1 p.m. target in 2009. It is equally necessary for Norway to have a clear voice in terms of global governance, to introduce new mechanisms for new funding, and not least to be a clear and clear voice in the fight against tax havens, illegal capital flows and debt cancellations, including illegitimate debt, as the Minister for Development was exemplary at the recent Doha meeting. Tax Justice Network detects a global tax yoke that is a disaster for the poorest countries. Because of tax evasion and tax competition, they're missing billions of tax dollars. For each krona provided for assistance, ten kronor will go out of the developing countries. Trevor Manuel, South Africa’s Finance Minister, says this: there is a discrepancy between supporting increased assistance and, at the same time, closing the eyes to the actions of major multinational companies that undermine the tax base of developing countries. This is partly due to a tax competition encouraged by the EU, the IMF and the World Bank — a race to the bottom, called it — and partly because 60 pst. international trade takes place internally in large companies and large sums are hidden in tax havens. Obama has said it this way: on the Cayman Islands there is a building that is supposed to house 12,000 American companies. It's either the largest building in the world or the world's biggest tax evasion. It also includes that here is the great degree of secrecy and little transparency. It is hoped that Norway and Germany will have an ally in Obama. This is about the fight against corruption, and it is about taking an important step internationally in a world that has come out of control. It is not least that poor countries should be able to strengthen the resource base and have political scope to govern their own development. Norway and the Minister for Development were also clearly aware of women’s rights and gender equality in Doha. We have dealt with a big deal on this topic, and there was a great deal of consensus about putting women's rights and equality high on the agenda. The Ministry has given a good and thorough account of the follow-up to the budget. I have to say that the U.D. can be a good example of how this can be done. So an improvement area: NORAD's review of the embassies shows weaknesses in how the work is followed up. It should be said that there are some shining examples, but the Committee is clear that this is a management responsibility. We look forward to an active action by both the responsible state councils. It is particularly important that the embassies have good contact with the change actors, and often there will be women's organisations at grassroots level. The Committee has previously concluded that there is a need to develop an environment of expertise which has knowledge of key women’s organisations in the south. FOKUS is already acting as an environment of expertise, and the committee believes that the department provides us with resources to follow up the work. It seems that there is progress in several of the UN's Millennium Goals. But when it comes to the goal of reducing maternal mortality and improving women's health, it goes the wrong way. It's just to hope that one of the first things Obama does is to cancel The Global Gag Rule, which has been a disaster for poor women's lives and health. Women’s reproductive rights and health services related to pregnancy and childbirth, the right to safe and maritime abortions and the fight against gender mutilation are crucial for women’s position of power in society. It is also important to strengthen the work of Security Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security, and Security Resolution 1820, which strengthens the focus on sexualised violence and rape in conflicts. In particular, the situation of women and children in eastern Congo shows this. It is good that the Minister for Development follows up on this in particular. UN. A diversity of high-level organisations and knowledge strengthens our efforts for peace and disarmament. That is why I am pleased that the information work on peace was strengthened by 1 million. kr next year. Civil society has been working for a long time to ban class weapons, and it is a strength that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has taken it further. Peace, the fight against poverty and for sustainable development are interdependent. A new arms race driven by the arms industry and the idea that the fight against terrorism can be won with military power is one of our greatest challenges today and stands in the way of solving the other major challenges we see. Weapons of mass destruction are contrary to fundamental principles of international law. We have conventions against biological and chemical weapons. What is now missing is a corresponding convention against nuclear weapons. We cannot allow nuclear disarmament, whether it be rocket shields, Russian defence, or as part of NATO's strategy. We are pleased that Norway supports the work of an international convention against arms trafficking, because the small arms are the weapons of mass destruction of the poor. So a little treat: In the fall, several of us could experience Ramzi, the artist and the violinist who became known as a young boy as the one who triggered the first intifada in Palestine. Today he runs the music school Al Kamandjati for children in refugee camps. Cultural infrastructure, music for everyone, gives young people the opportunity to express their feelings in ways other than throwing stones. A good example of this, to give dignity and identity, is the UMOJA, the Flying Curtain of Culture, run by the Norwegian Council of Culture Schools. It is incredible that the Progress Party is able to propose to cut every penny in this program.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1846	The regulatory time for the morning meeting is soon over, but the President will propose that a final reply be made before the Stortinget takes a break until noon. 18th@item: inlistbox - There's no objection to it. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1851	I do not find much of the traditional foreign policy of the Socialist Left in the Committee's position. The NATO resistance of the party has now been replaced by a tribute of NATO as ‘the cornerstone of our security policy’, and it is also stated: ‘The anchor for Norwegian foreign and security policy is our strong support for’, among others. NATO and our close relationship with the EU. SV has traditionally claimed that they have been involved in human rights, and have used this as a reason for, among other things. will be boycotts of Israel. Human rights violations in Iran, for example, are frightening, with whipping and executions by stoning. And in China, it's claimed that maybe 10,000 people are executed every year, without the same response from SV. Will there be boycotts on the SV side from these countries as well? Or if this is a selective instrument from the party, what other reactions do we consider to be to these countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1860	I can assure you that we are proud to be part of a government that moves stones, also in the direction of what SV has done in the past. I can also assure you that we stand by our NATO resistance. But we are part of a government based on NATO, based on the fact that we are not going to be members of the European Union. The replicator may not have fully followed the hour when he claims that we are not taking human rights violations seriously in Iran and China. We certainly do! That's why we're very concerned that human rights violations, for example. women in Iran. But what we see as a paradox is the proponents of the Progress Party for the gross abuse of the occupying party of Israel against the Palestinians and the gross human rights violations being perpetrated there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1869	Some rocks seem heavier to move than others, obviously. I became so enthusiastic about the line I got from SV instead, that I just have to follow up with SV's representative. It concerns budgetary support and its assumptions. Does the SV agree, as stated in the Accra final document, that with regard to the use of budgetary support, it is appropriate to impose certain requirements on the recipient in the form of quality monitoring of their management systems and that some conditionalities are, in fact, attached to the development of the quality of their own systems, as a basis for obtaining that type of assistance transfers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1878	The innovation that comes in the final document from Accra is a strong commitment to civil society, to grassroots, as an inspector to the authorities. Given that perspective, budget support and not least ownership are an important principle that we support. But it must be assumed that grassroots, the parliaments, are included, both in terms of dialogue on development, and also as an inspectorate with other control bodies. Then, too, in the follow-up to the Doha Round, we were occupied by the large capital flows of developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1886	The representative of Valle, in her statement, referred to the position on women and assistance, which she carried in an excellent manner on behalf of the Committee. She showed, among other things: to the need for embassies to follow up the leadership given by Stortinget. I expect that the Council of State has taken a serious and significant responsibility for that. But perhaps the representative Valle should be a little more concerned about how the Council of State follows up the part of the efforts to lift women in developing countries and is about education. Of course, we agree that education is a very central strategic effort for women in developing countries. What will the representative, Valle, do to ensure that education is consistently downgraded as a share of aid under this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1893	I am pleased that the representative Højbrätten fully agrees that the embassies should be followed closely as to how they safeguard the good position we were together to make with regard to women's rights and education. When the representative claims that education is being prioritised, it is not in line with the information that is now coming about that more and more girls are receiving education, and that it is much better to achieve the Millennium Goals on Education than in other areas, such as education. abstinence. It is a fact that we provide a great deal of assistance for education through, for example, the use of the Internet. UNICEF. It's not just the bilateral donations that apply, it's also what is being given through the UN. Then there will be a large conference now in December that will show that this government and this Minister for Development take this seriously, because that is the basis for all other developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1900	The queue changes have been completed, and the size is now paused. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 p.m. 18, and the first speaker at the evening meeting is Dagfinn Højbrätten.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1933	Before we move on with the debate, the President has an important piece of information. As most people will be aware, there has been a fire in the basement region of the main building earlier today. It was triggered by drilling in a power cable. In order to replace the damaged cable, the power in the landfill building must be disconnected while the work is in progress. Shutdown time will be reached 24.00 tonight, and the work is estimated to take a few hours. Emergency power unit will be connected, but it will only supply, for example: required light. This means that most computers in the offices in the landfill building will not be able to use after 1:00 p.m. 24.00 and beyond at night. So it's just the big building that's affected, not other buildings. The President hopes that this will be acceptable to the representatives. It can be nice with some candles – and pen and ink give Christmas spirit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1940	In the light of the power outages, we're going to try to limit ourselves in the debate here, so that we don't provoke too long outbursts. The large amount of money in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget goes to Norway’s assistance to developing countries. Norway has a strong tradition here as a solidarity nation. Our nation is well known for its efforts to give the world's poorest people a better future, to contribute to conflict resolution and peace and to fight for democracy and human rights. It has to remain the characteristics of Norway. In this context, the Government’s proposals for the 2009 budget for assistance constitute a paradox. On the one hand, it gives a great growth in the allocation framework, which I have given, and will give, honor for. On the other hand, most of the increase is taken by measures for asylum seekers in Norway and, secondly, the new climate project to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere. In total, this is so intrusive as to ensure that other aid activities in developing countries maintain their real value if price increases are corrected. In fact, a majority of the classic development aid budget chapters come out with direct cut or real decline. It's been a long time since such stagnation was the case. Even among the government's five priority areas, some come out with decline. And for the first time in this ageing period, the government initially gives no idea of the amount of additions given in the five priority bet areas. This shows how insistent it was finally for poverty-relieving aid to developing countries, although the overall framework is thus increasing dramatically. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we proposed to increase the aid framework by 331 million in the budgetary position of the Committee on Budgets. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. Together with re-disposal from objectives here in Norway for purposes in developing countries, we increased aid activities in developing countries by well over half a billion dollars. That's how we removed the real cuts on many, but not all the budget chapters in the aid area. Christian People's Party proposals would include, inter alia: increased efforts in Africa by around 450 million. kr and increased the efforts of voluntary organisations by around 150 million. kr. The Christian People's Party's proposal to increase assistance beyond 1 pst. gross national income fell in Stortinget. In the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, therefore, the Christian People's Party proposes redeployments that will provide Africa with well over 200 million. kr more and non-governmental organisations around 100 million. kr more. In the sector, we're increasing education aid by 100 million. DKK, health and vaccine of 100 million. kr, and we are also increasing the neglected effort for agriculture and food security. As usual under the red-green majority government, the Stortinge Room is to change the budget little. However, one of our proposals – which only the Christian People's Party supported in the financial position – has received a majority in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee. This is our proposal to increase support for the Peace Corps by 5 million. to ensure that training is also provided by those in charge of the new ESTHER exchange programme. We are pleased with this impact on the important work of the Peace Corps. The Christian People's Party is also involved in the majority that gives 1 million. extra to organisations working for peace and human rights, and we are part of the majority that will have better training in Norway for minor asylum seekers. When the Government, by Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, presented the state budget in this room, she said quite erroneously: ‘We prioritise international solidarity by being the first government to reach the goal of using 1 pst. of assistance gross national income.» This is a double mistake, and it is not going to be more correct that it has been repeated by the committee chairman here in the debate today. Other countries have granted at least 1 pst. by GNI for aid before, and secondly, by the changing Norwegian Government for a long time, from the mid-1980s to the mid-1990s. It is also wrong to say, as the representative Akselsen said, that the government is delivering the Soria Moria declaration. Because it says that you have to achieve the goal of 1 pst. of GNI and then escalating aid further during the period. The last one isn't done. They had the chance, but voted against when the Christian People's Party proposed 1 pst last year. of GNI for assistance, and also voted against when we recently proposed to increase assistance beyond 1 pst. So far the framework for the aid budget. What about the device? Here are some major trends that need to be noted, and I want to highlight three. Firstly, a weaker focus on poverty. We see this primarily in a lower priority for the poor countries of sub-Saharan Africa. Instead, we have seen trends in less geographical concentration of aid under this government. Secondly, the downgrading of education. It was a unanimous foreign committee that in its time supported an increase in the share of education aid in the aid budget. It reached 13.5 pst. in 2005 – i.e. before the government change. During this large-scale period, the Foreign Affairs Committee has called for the stepping up of training aid, as it does in the budget setting of the year. Unfortunately, however, every year the Government has proposed budgets that deprioritise aid for education. In two years — from 2005 to 2007 — the share of education aid was reduced from 13,5 pst. to 10 pst. of Norwegian aid. Continuing the trend, the share of education aid will be halved when the accounts for the last two years of the period are settled. That's what happens in the middle of the period when we had to follow forcefully the UN's Millennium Goals, where access to education for everyone is one of the main things. Thirdly, climate action is not granted as requested by the opposition parties in the climate agreement. It is paid within the framework of assistance, so that targeted development measures in developing countries now have a reduced share of gross national income compared to the last few years. Concrete measures to help vulnerable populations in developing countries with climate adaptation measures have long contributed through Norwegian assistance, for desertification and climate change are nothing new under the sun. The main purpose of such assistance is social and economic development in developing countries. The new initiative is where the main objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the interests of the global climate. The Christian People's Party is a driver of this, and we were with the Left and Right to press the Government to accept this in the climate agreement a year ago. But we had hoped that the part that goes beyond what can rightly be called climate adaptation would come in addition to the ordinary assistance. The United Nations Convention on Climate Change also establishes the principle of additionality. We believe it can be difficult for developing countries to participate in large-scale climate action if they see that the money for climate action leads to other, genuine aid receiving a decreasing share of the gross domestic product of developed countries. The poorest countries will again be the biggest losers. Global climate action is likely to go mainly to more industrialised countries. This could be a serious issue at the Copenhagen climate summit in spring. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we want the question of additionality to be thoroughly addressed in the big news that the Government is presenting in the New Year. On such a basis, we need to assess whether the Storting should provide additional appropriations in the revised national budget to demonstrate that Norway is serious about the addition of climate action to established levels of assistance. Other speakers from the Christian People's Party will address other issues in the budgetary position, including: in the case of the north areas, where an overall opposition has taken place for a stake in the plans for a transport corridor east-west of Narvik. It is an important matter that I hope the Government will follow up. We will also come back to other aspects of the aid budget in later articles. Let me stress that we, on the part of the Christian People's Party, are pleased with the support provided by the Right Subsidiary to the distribution that we propose within the allocated framework of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I expect the President to put up the vote so that it is possible for more people to vote in favour of that proposal. Otherwise, I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party. I also refer to proposal No 1, which is a joint proposal from the opposition parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1990	The representative Dagfinn Højbråten has taken up the suggestions that he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e1995	The government and the Storting must ensure that there are opportunities to evaluate and measure the results of our comprehensive assistance. The Christian People's Party criticises in the vote that Stortinget has not received satisfactory reports of aid results. Norwegian aid organisations make a huge effort in the area of assistance and manage billions. In the vote, the Christian People's Party is the only party that will not make demands on the aid organisations in terms of efficiency and performance measurement in the use of funds. Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2000	The Christian People's Party is at the forefront of fighting for good assistance, high-quality assistance and a follow-up to the results of assistance that enables us to intervene where there is misdeposit, where funds are not managed in a manner that is in line with the guidelines. This must be done independently of who carries out the mission on behalf of Norway. That we have not joined a very special remark in the setting, does not corrode this main view. Of course, demands must be made for everyone, including non-governmental organisations, and in particular because we want the NGOs to have a greater role in the assistance in the future than the government has provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2005	For more than 40 years, the Palestinians have lived under an increasingly brutal occupation on the part of Israel. The number of settlements has increased despite Israel's commitment to withdraw the settlements there. The wall is contrary to international conventions. It steals more and more land from the Palestinians and prevents the Palestinians from cultivating the land. [[Over speaker system: no fire has been recorded in the building.]] When will the Christian People's Party realize that there is an unsustainable situation, that there will be no peace in the Middle East without a fair peace for the Palestinians? And how does the Christian People's Party view such peace?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2016	First of all, it was reassuring to get a message on the way here that there was no fire in the building. This is not to say whether the situation in the Middle East is highly explosive. The answer to the representative Valle's question about the Christian People's Party's attitude can be found in the vote. It is clear from comments by the Christian People's Party, together with the government parties and partly with other opposition parties, that we are seeking a peace solution that demands all parties, including Israel, who are demanding all the points on which the representative Valle was involved. But we are critical of a position that unilaterally addresses the demands on the State of Israel and that does not accept the fundamental principles of Israel's right to the existence and cessation of terrorist activities, which the entire international community has backed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2023	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2026	The budget setting shows that there is broad consensus in the UK about foreign policy and the external budget, but with one important exception, the Progress Party. There is broad consensus that a wholehearted commitment to international cooperation and assistance must be part of development policy, with one important exception, the Progress Party. There is broad consensus that dialogue and bridge construction are the foundation of Norwegian foreign policy, with one important exception, the Progress Party. The Central Party takes seriously the budget of the Advance Party. We're startled by what we see. If the alternative budget of the Progress Party were adopted in Stortinget, it would upset Norway's reputation internationally. The dramatic cuts in aid to Africa, Asia, the Middle East and Latin America, to participate in the global climate battle, to peacekeeping and to the UN and all the global institutions in which Norway cooperate, would destroy Norway’s ability to contribute constructively internationally. It would isolate us from important processes, and mean a total change in our relationship with the rest of the world. It is dramatic when the Progress Party cuts over DKK 2.4 billion of a budget of DKK 2.8 billion for long-term aid to Africa. It's just as irresponsible when the party cuts 425 million. SEK of a budget of 500 million. kr to the Middle East, or close to half a billion kr from the entry for environment and sustainable development. We record that the Progress Party claims to participate in an aid-critical change of words. The cuts they put up to show that this is only a disguised attempt to abolish all assistance. Yes, for it is stated in this setting that the Advance Party is in principle opposed to long-term aid, as they describe as «the compulsory contribution scheme to State development aid through taxation». We are therefore opposed to aid from the State budget. This compulsory state development aid shall allegedly contribute to: ‘to weaken the individual’s personal sense of responsibility and desire.’ With a broad pen, the Progress Party also states that state development assistance has been shown to be ‘lowly efficient and very costly to manage’. With all due respect, it is far from possible to claim that all types of development work that have been organised with public contributions have failed. I can recommend visits to a number of schools, health institutions, etc. Around the globe. The Progress Party does not even try to respond to what will replace the abolition of the contribution of democratically elected authorities to development. We have to assume that they don't have, and that it doesn't exist, alternatives. This means that the weakest in the world will suffer further with the policies of the Progress Party. The Progress Party refers to assistance as ‘almises’ and ‘political correctness’. From 1 January 2009, just over Christmas, the poorest in Africa will lose most of our support. I do not know whether to laugh or laugh when it is stressed that parts of the released funds will go to the work of Norwegian embassies against piracy in Asia! Here we are facing a party with government ambitions, which will make Norway's reputation as a solidarity country a mere saga. It is no surprise that the Progress Party also attacks the environmental effort in the budget, and at a time when absolutely all international agree that climate challenges require strong efforts in international environmental cooperation. Norway has all the opportunities to contribute to the environmental struggle. We also have a special responsibility to contribute, because we have become rich in fossil energy exports, the main source of environmental pressures. The Progress Party will strongly weaken Norway as a responsible environmental nation. Rarely have we been given a better illustration of this later on so famous bourgeois chaos than in this budget proposal. I find it hard to see how the Right, not to talk about the Christian People's Party and the Left, would be able to negotiate a government platform with the Advance Party, considering the extreme starting point of the Advance Party. Today, 950 million of the world's population are starving, and the number is increasing. The UN Food Organisation estimates that the world’s food production will have to double by 2050-2060 if we are to feed everyone. The trade policy that has been pursued has been counterproductive. The production of food in the last 20 years has increased less than consumption. The response of the party to the poorest is, as stated, to privatise the assistance based on the individual's desires and, in addition, to make a massive trade liberalisation. Food is the least appropriate product to leave to market mechanisms alone. Food crisis is not only the result of changing climatic conditions, but also, to a great extent, the result of a misguided trade policy that increases the dependency on aid. Market experiments are removing us from fulfilling the UN's first thousand-year target of halving the world's poverty. The trickle-down effect, that it should drip on the clock when it rains on the priest, which many claim is market liberalisation and the leading by-product of economic globalisation, does not work for nearly 1 billion people. We cannot accept that this should be the optimal world order. The Progress Party uses the budgetary position to create a picture of us and the others, where we are the West and the others are Arab countries. We all agree that there is a lot that remains before there is democracy and non-corruptible societies in many places, but who serves on a reality where some people are trying to make us believe that there are whole peoples and cultural circles standing on the ground resting and separated from all kinds of development, that there is a dramatic and almost insurmountable gap between us and the Progress Party called the "dead fate of the Arab countries". The central party's assessment is that the attitude of the Progress Party towards multilateral cooperation and to large parts of the world's countries and peoples is part of a conflict-building ideology that we actually have reason to believe is now leaving the White House after eight years of misguided politics. The Progress Party, in our opinion, represents attitudes that will create a more dangerous and unsafe world. We do not understand how Norway should be able to meet the world with the bulk of the Party's thinking. It is completely contrary to Norwegian foreign policy tradition, which is based on solidarity and dialogue. I record that the Progress Party claims to have Norway's interests, and alone, as its guide in foreign policy. Well, our assessment is that the Progress Party, with its budget line in that case, keeps the people of Norway fooled. It can hardly be seen as anything but wrong to claim that we are best served with a foreign policy based on egoism, enemy images and isolation. As a small country, we are totally dependent on well-functioning international cooperation. This must be grown, not demolished with root. Dialogue and cooperation are the best guarantee we can provide for the safest future for ordinary people in Norway. That is why I am pleased that a red-green government represents a completely different foreign policy than the one we see from the perhaps largest opposition party in Norway, the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2074	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2078	It is interesting to note that the foreign policy spokeswoman of one of the government parties wants to spend their entire speaking time attacking the Progress Party. I don't know myself again in the description when she talks about enemy images, isolation and total lack of dialogue. I just spoke in my speech about the importance of dialogue with countries we do not agree with. When we talk about the gap with the Arab states, it is precisely the conditions in which the population suffers: lack of freedom of expression, lack of freedom of religion and violation of rights for women and children. With regard to the assistance, does the representative Haga not agree and does she not realize that the aid policy that has been pursued has not come forward and that it is time to think again? The representative forgot to mention our idea of a large investment fund that could just stimulate a right kind of development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2085	The centre party has chosen to take the budget position of the Progress Party seriously. We have reviewed the sentence for sentence in the setting, and I must say that it is such a dramatic different starting point from what we have tradition of in Norwegian foreign policy, that I believe it is important to have the matter clarified. That is why I chose to use my contribution to describe the foreign policy of the Advance Party. I think it is necessary for people to be aware that if they vote in the Progress Party, they are voting on a completely different foreign policy course than the one we are familiar with in Norway. And I think most of the Norwegian people are very satisfied that we have had a foreign policy based on solidarity, based on understanding the environmental challenges, and based on dialogue. The policy of the Progress Party has been broken by this policy. People should know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2090	It's almost too bad to get into this bilateral sweep here, but since Haga's representative was also involved in food production and is obviously concerned with the long-term failure of food production, it was too tempting to take a line on it. I recall that we had an action plan for development cooperation in the agricultural sector in 2004, and the Committee has now referred to it and asked the Government to follow up. Because when you go into the current budget, you don't find much of the long-term agricultural activity as part of development. As I said in my article earlier today, the committee has asked the government as a question, and the answer is that you think it's a task that others can handle in an international division of tasks. Is the Centre Party satisfied with that ambition of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2095	It is a pity that Vallersnes will not interfere with the ‘bilateral feud’ as he says, for it could have been nice to know how the Right has intended to cooperate with the Progress Party on Foreign Policy within the framework defined by the Right Leader as desirable, namely a broad-based civil cooperation. But that was not the question. In the case of food production and investment in it within the framework of the aid, the same rules as they have always done apply, namely that the Government shall follow the decision of the Government. This means that we are going to have a stake in agriculture, and I just assume that the Minister for Development is following up. In my opinion, there should be a commitment that takes place both bilaterally and multilaterally, but here there is a multilateralist who believes that it is a channel that we very often do not make good use of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2102	I registered that the representative chose to jump over my question. I will once again give her the opportunity to answer the question of whether it is not a failure, at least the lack of results from the assistance over many years that we have seen, provides the basis for innovation and to ask critical questions. If the representative still does not want to answer that question, she can answer the question relating to the situation of the Arab countries: is it not our duty and our right to raise the situation of the population also in the Arab part of the world, and point out shortcomings in, for example, the situation of the Arab part of the world? human rights when we see it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2107	I can answer both questions. I fundamentally disagree with the fact that aid has failed. I fundamentally disagree that we cannot see good results from the assistance. These results can be traced around and seen in a great many developing countries. And we'll always consider whether we can do things better. We do that on a continuous basis when it comes to assistance. We've learned a lot about what kind of assistance works for the 40-50 years we've been doing it. It's a continuous learning process. So we're going to keep going. But the answer is not what the Progress Party chooses to give, which is to cut, cut and cut. It will have dramatic consequences for the poor of the world. Then I am concerned that we should look at the human rights situation and the development of democracy all over the world. We have our weaknesses. Other countries have their weaknesses, which we can define as bigger. What I react violently to in the presentation of this by the Progress Party is that one wants to create – consciously – a distinction between them and us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2124	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2127	Globalisation and a healthy market economy have lifted more people out of poverty in recent decades than ever before. This development is due, inter alia, to: well-functioning national and international markets. In addition, there are strong commitments to civil and political rights and effective international cooperation in many areas. But about a billion people have little or no benefit from globalisation. Some even become poorer and even more marginalized. Their situation will be further weakened by the global financial crisis. It enters the real economy of most countries with great strength. This affects poor developing countries through reduced trade, fewer investments and less repatriation of money. The consequences of the financial crisis can thus be dramatic for many poor countries. In view of this, I fear that the positive developments we have seen, where globalisation is lifting whole groups of people out of poverty, can be reversed. I fear that many who have managed to work out of poverty fall back into it. The middle class, which has grown in many countries and which promotes political stability and economic growth, can thus begin to shrink. I think this is very unfortunate. This means that the potential for achieving the Millennium Development Goals can be significantly weakened. We can be put back several years in the fight against poverty. I believe that the financial crisis, food crisis and climate change mean that we cannot reduce our aid. I would like to welcome a debate on aid arrangements, together with a stronger focus on quality versus quantity. However, in today’s situation, with a crisis in the world economy, small Norway should not cut down on aid and become self-sufficient. In the following, I will go through some of the main features of the political profile that the Left has included in the budget. As a social liberal, I believe that developing countries should govern and own their own development. This is easy to say, but worse to follow up in practice. The fine rhetoric we hear from many teams often sounds hollow. We want the good intentions to be put into practice. More specifically, I believe that we should strengthen the ability and ability of the cooperating countries to make their own choices and manage their own development. It shall not be controlled by the Storting. In other words, we should not three our own political priorities down the countries of cooperation. This intervenes in the very structure of our aid budget. Political signals are inserted, not least the red-green government has followed up. They commit the budget to priorities that profile the government's policy. The government has also placed relatively large amounts in general items that give freedom to dispose of funds on the basis of current policy assessments. This does not necessarily promote recipient orientation. The left wants to strengthen the concentration of the overall aid effort. This applies both thematically and geographically. Norway is currently providing assistance in some form to well over 100 countries. By spreading the aid so thinly, we may weaken efficiency and quality. I believe that Norway should not aim to become a mini-FN. If we want to do too much, we finally don't get to do anything. This is also pointed out in the OECD’s last review of Norwegian aid. In the government’s draft budget, Africa has experienced a significantly lower percentage growth than Asia and the Middle East. This relatively weakens the efforts to combat poverty in Africa, which is a trend the Government has followed up over the last few years. The left, for its part, proposes increasing the budget for Africa by 50 million. kr in relation to the Government's draft budget. In order to help focus further aid efforts, the Left has taken steps to reduce the government’s investment in Latin America. I think it's far on the way is ideologically justified. Furthermore, it helps to weaken the poverty orientation of aid, as most countries in the region are middle-income countries. Otherwise, the Left is behind the increase in appropriations for Asia and the Middle East. This applies primarily to Afghanistan and the Palestinian territories. However, we have provided a small signal that there is a limited administrative capacity, especially in Afghanistan. If assistance from Norway and other donor countries is stepped up in the coming period, this could quickly hamper its effectiveness. I guess the left is as busy as the quantity. Now it turns out that despite very good intentions to strengthen the quality of the assistance, this is not followed up by government appropriations. According to the Ministry of Finance, 1.8 pst went. of the quality assurance assistance provided in 2004. In 2007, this proportion decreased to 1.5 pst. In the current budget we see no increase of importance. I think this is a little too weak when we know what large amounts are going to be spent on assistance. In addition, over the last ten years, we have had a formidable growth in the aid budgets. This gives a clear impression that the quality improvement comes somewhat slowly after. Could we have seen ourselves blind on the 1 pst. goal? In view of this, the Left proposes significant increases in quality assurance in next year's budget. These means shall be earmarked for independent evaluation with a view to learning from errors and deficiencies related to ongoing or final aid projects. This learning shall be a systematic part of the decision-making basis for future assistance. Furthermore, the appropriations shall be used to further develop new approaches and methodologies for evaluation and quality assurance. This applies both at national level and in cooperation with donor countries. Beneficiaries of the assistance should be more closely involved in this work. In general, I believe that the appropriations for quality assurance and evaluation should increase as the aid budget grows. The Left has reinforced humanitarian efforts in relation to the Government's proposals. This applies both to transitional, emergency and humanitarian assistance. I believe that this should form a permanent and integrated part of Norwegian foreign and development policy. Furthermore, action in these areas needs to be seen in the context of climate action, conflict prevention, long-term development measures and reconstruction. Furthermore, I believe that work to ensure better protection of people in flight should be given a special priority. Often, the transition from emergency aid to longer-term assistance is characterised by great opportunities to alleviate distress and make the population less vulnerable. State the extent and frequency of disasters occurring in different parts of the world, including: in Congo, I expect there to be an increased demand for this kind of humanitarian aid in the future. The Left is also pleased that a Joint Committee is now in favour of the proposal where the Government is asked to consider establishing a programme to strengthen contacts between the Western world and Muslim countries, in particular with regard to children’s and youth organisations and political parties. I want to stress that the Left will bet more than the Government on channelling assistance through civil society. They have not received increased appropriations as aid budgets have increased in recent years. I believe that Norwegian non-governmental organisations have a competence and a contact network in cooperating countries that is of great importance. They put an end to a great deal of effort, both as an operator of concrete aid projects, which drives and not least as a watchbow. Then I want to make a wish beyond Christmas: although non-governmental organisations are heavily dependent on public funds, I hope they do not weaken their role as critics of any government policy. Finally, I would like to say that the Left supports the proposal of the Christian People's Party. 5 on framework area 4 and on proposal No. 6, originally from Morten Høglund in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2173	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2176	The left is on a note that fires a force-salve against the Northern Territory policy of the Government. I quote: ‘Although the Government has increased the appropriations allocated to the northern regions during the period, it has not been able to deliver the necessary solutions.’ And on the other hand, «These members lack the overview, knowledge focus and responses to strategic, economic and communication challenges in the north.» You world! My question to the representative Larsen is: What solutions will the Left deliver? What is the view of the Left regarding the Northern Region policy, which the Government lacks? The setting doesn't show that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2193	In the Northern Region bet, we have pointed out that this is not clear enough with the regional subsidisation and the bet on a North Region plan for neighbouring countries and other sea areas. What the Left has said – I can refer to the comment – is that we want even more focus on knowledge, the environment and geopolitical changes in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2199	Once again, the Left proposes to cut aid to Latin America and justifies this because it is an ideologically based support – as if something is unpolitical in this world! I must say that I do not understand this position. Firstly, there is support for democratic countries with democratically elected leaders representing marginalised groups, such as the European Union. Evo Morales, Bolivia. His opponents are rich people who don't want to share resources with poor people. Norwegian action is poverty-oriented and largely targeted at indigenous peoples and women living in extreme poverty if it is a middle-income country. Several measures relate to biodiversity and are fully in line with the Environmental Assistance Action Plan. Why this ideologically-based resistance of the Left against supporting the fight against poverty in new democracies that have rid themselves of dictators and military rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2208	The left has said in all these years that we will bet on Africa because we believe it is the most vulnerable continent. When mention is made of Latin America and the countries there, it is very nice that many of these countries now have more democratic arrangements, but in relation to poverty orientation, in relation to the need not to spread aid in too many countries, in relation to the ideological justification that Valle mentions, and in relation to the middle-income country, we believe that it is questionable to what extent we should support these countries. I'm just referring to Nicaragua as a string, where we're going to give $65 million. kr – a lot of it in budget support – to a somewhat questionable government with Ortega at its head. That is why we have chosen to continue to support Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2215	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2218	The whole of this setting is a broad and argued support for the resource use of Norwegian foreign policy. That is what a budget debate is about. That's good. We in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs notice the comments carefully, have studied them, and it is very interesting to read there – much wise too. This broad support is also interesting in view of the fact that we can now note that we have almost achieved the objectives set out in the international chapter of the Soria Moria Declaration. I notice that the Christian People's Party and the Left are together with the government parties in many cases. It also does so in some areas, and in the year that last year it is the Progress Party that is the real opposition to foreign policy in this Chamber. I really want to praise the Advance Party for having gone to work thoroughly and clearly and written it out in notes – many of them are clearly articulate – and have dared to move on money, big money. Then there's some learning along the way as well. Last year, the Progress Party would cut down 100 million. kr on operations in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Suddenly it's not important this year. I think that's wise, but it reminds me that there's a little bit of a veggie between here. I do not agree with the comments of the Progress Party and the money movements, and that there are differences between us – the government parties – and the Progress Party, are natural and clarifying. But, as the representative Haga said, the politically interesting thing must be the differences between the Progress Party and the other bourgeois parties, which – some of them at least – have intentions to form government with the Advance Party. State Council Solheim will take many of these areas, I assume, but cut to 85 pst. to Africa, 85 p.m. to Asia, 85 pst. to the Middle East, 85 pst. to Latin America – there is something about the Advance Party and 85 pst. I haven't completely discovered what it is that makes us reach the goals by going down to 15 pst. But something has to be. There is something in this presentation that says that it must be possible to rethink assistance, and I do not think Norway has had a Minister of Aid/Development for a long time that has opened up critical assessments. But there's a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin, and it's basically the whole head that goes into the Advance Party's operation. I'll stay a second at the Middle East. The Progress Party and the Right propose 85 pst, respectively. and approx. 50 pst. Cut in regional allocations to the Middle East. Here I will be allowed to quote the very good comment of the member of the Christian People's Party in the Committee, which indicates that: ‘The doubling of the regional allocation to the Middle East does not imply an increase in the overall support for Palestinian areas, but is an expression of the fact that appropriations that have gone through, for example, the Humanitarian Aid Chapter in 2008 are now being sought through the regional allocation’. That's absolutely right, so here it's a pretty dramatic cut. The policy of the Progress Party, which in this setting also emphasises the importance of Norway working closely with the United States, is a clear violation of our foreign policy. For here, through the Annapolis process, our AHLC Presidency, Norway has been able to lead the way in enabling Palestinian authorities to maintain possible operations towards the two-state solution. What the Progress Party is proposing here will, of course, draw in the other direction – categorically. Then there's a special thing that lies on my heart. It is the support of UNRWA, the support of some of the weakest people who are: Palestinian refugees. There have been 5 million new ones since the end of the 1940s, people born into refugee status. Last year the Progress Party wanted to cut 80 pst. in the aid granted to UNRWA. So this time you've constrained yourself to 50 pst. I can say from this speaker that in the new year – while revising the national budget – the Government will propose a further increase in support for UNRWA. The UNRWA programmes are the support we have for education, for training, for action for children and young people and women who are not ideological and who prevent these people from falling into the grip of extremists. But here again, at my discretion, the proposal from the Progress Party, not a thoughtful project, I get hope, but so cut to spend the money on something else – on ourselves. Then I believe that the representative, Mr Høglund, said so much wisely about the Durban 2 – the great conference on racism. He said that the process can be traced, he said that some countries have a clear agenda – it is not critical in itself – that Norway should be clear and that we should threaten to stay. I fully agree with the latter. I think it's wrong to withdraw from controversial processes with controversial themes. We have to be there. But we also have to be there wisely, and that means that we are not initially acting with a West towards the rest, that we are seeking to join alliances and understanding with other countries, in Africa, Latin America, and are not being drawn into this ideological attempt to let individual countries and situations cloud the important work to be done. The intention of the proposal that has been promoted, I believe, is reflected in the policy of the Government, and I have no problem following it. To the north: This is not a north-eastern debate – we will probably have occasion to do so several times in the new year. But I also believe that here, at least in the areas of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there is a great deal of support for the tracks we are following. We have a 22-point north-area strategy that we deliver on, point-by-point, and we're on track. There are some additions, from the Advancement Party and from the Right. I can live with that, it's not only negative for a government council to see that the opposition wants more in an area we've put on the agenda. There have been strong words about a lack of commitment to this north-west corridor. It is a good project – it has now become a consensus to propose 2 million. kr to it. The amounts that have been discussed in order to get pilot projects started in the past were at least $10 million. But as I have said in this room earlier, we are concerned about this matter and will follow along with it. Oslo City Hall had the last Wednesday important markings, as the first Wednesday, tomorrow. Last week there was agreement among 100 countries to sign a Convention on the Prohibition of Class Weapons, and tomorrow Marrti Ahtisaari will be awarded the Peace Prize for his peace and reconciliation work. So these are two very important themes: disarmament and work for peace and reconciliation. Our foreign policy should have the ambition to contribute to the security and well-being and fight for climate, for Norway, and therefore we contribute to the broad international work on stability and security. That means we're going to maintain what I call the value chain in Norwegian foreign policy, from the security of the border to the contribution to security out there, which in turn is of great importance to us. This is where the Progress Party actually separates teams, I would say, all the other parties, that is to have respect for the whole value chain of foreign policy and not cut it off in the middle. We are facing major, demanding tasks in 2009 – the budget reflects it. Our main efforts are Afghanistan, the Middle East, Sudan – the three individual areas. It's demanding processes. In one of them, Norwegian women and men are engaged, and we are working to see the possibility of also fulfilling the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration to contribute Norwegian forces to the work of the United Nations in Africa. We have a demanding neighbour in the east, which also brings great opportunities, Russia in the north, an important part of the North Region bet. Norwegian foreign policy will get its hands full. We come up with two important messages in the new year – one from the Minister of Development and one from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, from the same department – which will allow us to discuss the broad guidelines for foreign policy. Today, we have a coincidence between three crises, finance, climate, food/poorness. This is a very serious situation, and on the day before the 60th anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights, we can summarize that all three crises are about the value of man and man's rights. The political challenge, at my discretion, is: Can the response to the financial crisis, which now turns out to be a completely unusual mobilisation of state government power around the world, with large packages adopted by parliaments and governments together, help address the challenges of climate and food? Is it e.g. possible in the measures to provide people with jobs to bet on those projects that can also do something about infrastructure in relation to climate? I heard in Stockholm yesterday at Sir Nicholas Stern, the man behind the Stern report, who was talking about the climate challenge, and he was highlighting this as a very unique opportunity. Here it's exciting to look at the U.S. administration, if President Obama is able to do what he says, namely to use the financial crisis as an opportunity to skip polluting steps in the automotive industry, in the energy supply, etc. It will also be an important objective for Norwegian foreign policy in 2009 to establish an early, good and trusting relationship with the new US administration facing the whole world. There are enormous expectations, but it is, after all, better that there are expectations than that there is a cynical belief that everything will be the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2249	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2252	The number 85 is not particularly magical for the Progress Party. We spend 16 billion, as I have said before, on aid in this budget, which is a record for us, without that being something we want to pay a lot of attention to. I am very pleased with the signals given by the Foreign Minister in relation to Durban 2. I agree with his analysis that it must not be the West against the rest. At the same time, it has been important for us to focus on that we have to stand firm on some values. The trend we mean to see is that any such conference is trying to move any boundaries, and it's not going in a more liberal and open direction. Isn't the Foreign Minister concerned that this could be the outcome, and that unfortunately we can get into a situation quickly with the West towards the rest, without that being where we want to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2259	I share that concern, but we have to be ingenious in the way we meet it. I think, for example, Western countries are gathering for a resolution decision, putting it on the table and saying ‘this or nothing’ is a bad start. What we have seen in this development is that Islamic states – the association, the organisation – have wanted to bring other countries to the south on the kind of resolutions that I believe both the representative and I are critical of. Diplomatic contacts have succeeded in preventing, for example: African and Latin American countries obviously immediately jump on that trail, which will take the focus away from what is important to them: the issue of racism, non-discrimination and human dignity. It calls on us to do something else very important in the field of foreign policy, namely to be able to form new alliances, build confidence in Indonesia, Brazil, South Africa and Nigeria – important third-world countries. We're going to stick to our values, but we're also going to try to work creatively, and, as the representative says, we're going to threaten to stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2266	On the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Bergen on 11 November, the Minister of Foreign Affairs stressed that the Government has set out guidelines on how best to support and protect MR fighters in practice. Russia is one of the world's most dangerous countries for journalists and activists. The Council of Europe Rapporteur for MR Defenders designates the Russian North Caucasus as the most critical region. Due to the situation in North Caucasus, the Helsinki Committee has promoted applications for the transfer of persecuted MR defenders to the refugee quota since 2003. People who were persecuted for talking about abuse were protected in Norway. The scheme has been effectively terminated under the red-green government. Norwegian practice towards asylum seekers from North Caucasus is based on a description of reality in contravention of sources such as the UN and the Council of Europe. At present, the Norwegian approach appears to be characterised by a foreign policy over-optimistic view of Russia. Can we expect a more realistic view of human rights in Russia by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2275	I believe that we have a realistic view of the policy in Russia and of the development of democracy, which is important to follow, and which is not developing positively in all areas. We have close contact with the Helsinki Committee in the field of human rights fighters and the work they do there. The Committee also receives support for this work. I have to put something more thoroughly into the practice that the representative Vallersnes believes has ceased under the red-green government. At least there is no decision under my leadership to change past practice, so I have to take a closer look at that. What I can confirm is that Norway in this region, through Norwegian non-governmental organisations, humanitarian organisations and MR organisations, provides fairly generous support to enable these organisations to work and connect, among other things. with MR champions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2286	Let me say that I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is important in the future to try to see the financial crisis, the poverty crisis and the climate crisis in the context, and see if it is possible to meet the three major global crises with actions that work together. I look forward to working with the Government on that very matter. I'd like to address what the Foreign Minister said about the government working on how to follow up the Soria Moria Declaration in terms of forces to Africa in the United Nations. So far you haven't succeeded in getting it done. I know the government has signaled that it will work long-term to try to get strengths in the Congo. But it is urgent both to meet humanitarian needs and to try to contribute to peace in this area. The question is what Norway can do to support the peace process now under way by the United Nations in Congo.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2293	It's true that we haven't succeeded in speaking with Norwegian forces to the United Nations in Africa, but we were very close, and it wasn't on us. Today I had the opportunity to repeat to the Sudanese ambassador our regret that it was not possible for Norway and Sweden to contribute to the strength we had invested in, and prepared and trained as well as we had. But we're working on it. We must therefore work in the long term in relation to the Congo, and the Minister of Defence has explained that with today's power regime we do not have the opportunity to respond positively to this appeal. We have to keep working on that, and I can't pre-shoot it right here and now. We will support the UN negotiation process, the work of former President Obasanjo. There we are ready to also provide resources to implement it. So I think it is very important what we can support through the presence of our humanitarian organisations, through the follow-up to UN Resolution 1325, violence against women, through our modest, but nevertheless effective diplomacy – the Minister for Development has just been in the region – towards Congo, towards neighbouring countries, not least Rwanda. So in a wide range, Norway needs to push like Norway, and also through the multilateral channels.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2306	I have a question about a very topical and serious situation about emergency help. Norway gave 40 million. kr in emergency aid to Zimbabwe following the agreement of President Robert Mugabe of Zanu-PF and opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai on the sharing of power on Thursday 11 September this autumn. The EU and the United States chose to maintain sanctions against the country until real democratic changes were in place. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that it was essential that Prime Minister Tsvangirai received international support to address the acute humanitarian problems facing the population. Since September, we have seen that this country has gone from bad to worse, and that parts of the fallen population are now suffering from cholera – yes, we hear about new cases every day. The regime has clearly demonstrated that they do not have the power to carry out the necessary democratic reforms. Then my question is, has that help had a intended effect? And should we, in the light of what happened in September, wait to provide this help?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2319	The answer to the last question is no. There is still no help from Norway to the authorities of Zimbabwe, or to Robert Mugabe, to put it straight. It is humanitarian aid through the UN and through humanitarian organisations that can reach a desperately needy population with help. We cannot – at least we should not – hold the people of Zimbabwe hostage to unwittingly at the top of the regime that is taking place. That's why we said at the time that it's important that we continue with a help that can reach those in the country who need it, without at the same time giving anything in the direction of the regime. And at that moment there is a reform that we can believe in and that is credible, and that is in agreement with democratic desires in Zimbabwe, Norway must be out early. We are working with Sweden, and we are working with the European Union to show that democracy is something that is recognised. But I can confirm that the millions we granted in September were not money for Robert Mugabe. It was humanitarian money for a needy population.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2326	Since this is probably the last time this year the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in Stortingen, I wanted the Minister for Foreign Affairs to be able to comment on the WTO situation. It is reported – we see from news today – that yesterday we failed to achieve a result, and that this is due to the United States and cotton – well-known problems. How does the Foreign Minister view the prospects? And will a new administration in the United States, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, be able to change the American attitude towards its own cotton producers, and thus to get a result that we all want?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2333	I thought for a moment that the representative would wish me a good Christmas, but I understand that it is more serious than that. We have been in close contact with the management of the WTO in the last few days and were really prepared to travel to Geneva tomorrow morning from the Norwegian side to take part in a last try. When Pascal Ami hasn't called in, it's because he thinks the distance is too large. He's not taking the chance on a risk project now that has a higher probability of failure than succeeding in the situation that is. It's possible that the call comes in one week, so next weekend instead of this weekend. Cotton is a central, difficult topic that we haven't been dealing with in the summer at all, and which we had very much to thank in Hong Kong three years ago. But that's just one of the themes. It is also about the security mechanisms that India needs to open up to imports of agricultural products. It's an India/USA theme. It's about a China/USA theme on non-agricultural trade, and it's about cotton. Would the new administration be different? That's an open question. From the election campaign, the candidates have put a lot of emphasis on protecting American interests, so I don't think so. But at the same time, Obama has also stressed strong belief in the multilateral tracks, and we hope that he will then take advantage of the chance to contribute constructively.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2344	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2347	While we were in the Foreign Affairs Committee and we were in a budgetary position, including the aid budget, political leaders and organisations in Doha set out to discuss funding for development. The conference confirmed what happened in Monterey in 2002 and underlined the importance of freedom, peace and security in addition to human rights, equality and democracy as prerequisites for development. Although the meeting underlined the importance of assistance, the final declaration also showed that aid is only part of the transfer of funds to developing countries, a significant part of it. It is important that rich countries such as Norway have a high level of assistance. But the device must be both strategic and targeted. Assistance must also help to increase the country’s own revenues and their ability to finance their own development. It is a milestone – and several have said it – that Norway reaches the goal of 1 pst in 2009. of gross national income to contribute to development in poor countries. Norway is now moving ahead in the OECD region to achieve the UN’s Millennium Goals by 2015. That's eight ambitious goals, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. halving the world's poverty full primary education for all children, boys and girls a reduction in child mortality by two-thirds a reduction in mortality among women in childbirth by three-quarters Norway has taken on specific responsibilities for the health-related thousand-year targets. In sub-Saharan Africa, the most dangerous days in life are the day you are born, and the days you put children into the world. Therefore, Norwegian aid and development policy place a high emphasis on women’s reproductive health. I would also like to point out what Mr Ågot Valle said in this connection. We've also committed to contributing $1 billion over a decade to bring down child mortality and to make sure that children grow up. I would like to stress that safe births, safe births, the fight against sexual mutilation and safe abortions are an important part of the health-related thousand-year targets. At present, an overall committee increases the support for IPPF – the International Federation for Family Planning – by 10 million. NOK 50 million. kr. This organisation also has a network of parliamentarians, including Norwegian participants. Then the majority of the committee proposes 1 million. kr extra to the Norwegian centre of democracy support. There will be a decision here tonight. Let me stress that I believe that support for political parties can be organised in a much better way than what is being done today. Therefore, an evaluation is also important. However, I know positively that there are women's Kan courses waiting for support and that it is important to increase even in the year in which the Norwegian centre for democratic support is evaluated. Civil society in the developing world is important, but we do not achieve a well-functioning democracy without real political parties. Support for political parties has been underestimated in aid for too long. This also applies to active support for parliaments, which are the very basis of a democratic system. For a number of years, several of us have visited a country where Members of Parliament have asked us for financial support in order to act as elected representatives of the people in fragile democracies. There are often parliaments and parliamentarians without any financial support for the work they do. Finally, while the world's Heads of State sign the Doha Protocol and we rejoice over a historic aid budget, Zimbabwe's people die as flies. Here we are facing the real dilemma of development policy: how far can a despot drive his country and his people towards the downside without the 2005 UN Decision on Responsibility to Protect being enforced? What is the difference between the killing of ethnic groups, as in Rwanda, and the slow and painful death that Mugabe is exposing his people to? Did the Doha meeting have any solution for Zimbabwe except to write long and controversial statements about the need for democracy and good governance? Zimbabwe's children don't just need our attention. Zimbabwe's children need us to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2381	This year, in the alternative state budget of the Progress Party, we have also cut aid and development budgets, some of which have already been involved. On our part, we do not want to be aware of the uncritically continuing to spend more money on developing countries, without having control of what the money is doing, or if they have any positive effect on the recipients at all. We cannot sit calm and see that the amount of aid is one and only in dollars or in percent of GNI that you focus on. For us, the quality of the assistance is much more important than the quantity. One scandal has replaced the other in the aid sector, and every time we hear from the Council of State that now everything is going to be so much better with control and audit, while little and nothing happens. Despite the fact that more and more people now have a critical view of how our assistance is organised, the Government continues on the same track as before, without requiring the assistance to work or to arrive and without any requirement for the beneficiaries. The goal of Norwegian assistance has been and must continue to be to bring people out of poverty and enable them to stand on their own economic footings. Passive support of money without requirements or control does not in any way motivate the recipients. Instead, both passivity and clientisation are achieved. The development policy of the Progress Party aims to lift people out of poverty and create a basis for growth and development by building up customs and trade barriers, eradicating illegitimate debt, securing property rights, investing in health and education and increasing the use of micro-credit. In addition, we will stimulate increased investment in developing countries through a state investment fund. However, all of this shall be subject to thorough evaluation, performance measurement and accounting control. The foundation of a sustainable development policy must be based on the principle that developing countries will survive without assistance in the future. We believe that free trade is a win-win situation both for developing countries and for Norwegian citizens. The financial and food crisis must not become excuses for introducing even more protectionism into world trade. We take the consequences of this and propose in our alternative state budget to eliminate customs duties on goods from all developing countries on the OECD list. However, trade liberalisation on our part and on the part of other countries is not enough alone. In addition, efforts must be made to reduce the regional barriers to trade that can consist of both customs walls and bureaucratic barriers. Despite large amounts of debt in several years, many developing countries are still burdened with large debt, and this unfortunately also contributes to preventing positive economic development. States that have willingly borrowed money for regimes that have not had legitimacy in the population have themselves co-responsibility for this negative development. However, debt relief negotiations must attach conditions to good governance, anti-corruption, democratic development and accountability. We note with wonder that, despite the broad political consensus surrounding the Norwegian debt-leasing policy, the Government has reduced the allocation for this purpose. The Progress Party will not participate in this cut and will therefore strengthen the entry for debt cancellation measures. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in our foreign budget, we allocate DKK 1.2 billion to the fight against life-threatening diseases and global epidemics such as HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and the HPV virus. We want these funds to be used both for disease control and disease prevention, as well as for information and vaccination programmes. So from our point of view, we're using more disease control than anyone else. We are also spending more money on customs reductions that will promote trade with poor countries, and we are increasing the entry for debt-reduction measures. In addition, therefore, we want to introduce an investment fund that will contribute to economic development and poverty reduction. All these are measures that will have a good and lasting impact on many developing countries and enable them to stand on their own economic footings. That's what's meant and what's meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2411	For almost eight years said in this hall, during the voting, there suddenly happened a small chain reaction that was the first step in Norway to get rid of class bombs. SV had put forward a proposal, and suddenly the Christian People's Party's impending parliamentary leader, Einar Steensnæs, said: we are voting in favour of that proposal. Haakon Blankenborg of the Labour Party said: we also vote for it. We know that the Christian People's Party is always to trust when it is to make the humanitarian situation better. Those I haven't mentioned, but who are also proud of what we got into last week in Oslo, can only register in the debate if they want to boast about what Norway has actually done – go lead in such an important area. So we know that the Minister of Development doesn't have a chance in the ocean if there's too many class bombs in an area where one is trying to run development policy. This is really politicizing the aid, when the government in such a good area manages to get this to work effectively. It can't be better. So we also know that from the defense team, a lot of good work has been done. Because when the defense said we don't need Norwegian class bombs, we can do quite well without Norwegian class bombs, we need artillery to defend Norway, then it shows that this work gives good results. So, of course, we're going to say that this class bomb thing is not disarmament between states, but a humanitarian disarmament for civilians. It's the security of states as one set up against the security of individuals. It is not to remove the tension between states, but to civilize the warfare. This also underlines what has been mentioned earlier in this debate, about R2P, and it actually makes it possible for the individual's rights to be set against the integrity of states. This work will continue. Then we also know that if we go further in terms of results, we have to take the Progress Party seriously when they ask for results in the assistance. And of course, no one is against having good results. But we also have to make sure that it works in the best possible way. And removing the aid is not the way to do it. I know an example where assistance clearly works against its purpose, but then we have to get rid of it and make other assistance better. So for all intents and purposes, the party of progress shall have the honour to challenge that one will have the best possible assistance. All credit for that. But the result does not have to be that one removes all assistance, because it will in no way be able to stand internationally. Then we know that we are also able to achieve coherence, not least in Afghanistan, between development policy, foreign policy and, not least, defence policy. We know that here we might be involved in laying the foundation for future international operations. Norway has passed the civil decisions it is about to take. It says to see if the rest of the international community will get it done. But this class bombing decision that was made last week shows that Norway is in front of this area and dares to take the first steps. Norway is being heard both in NATO and in the United Nations. Now he is not present, but we have even been nominated the President of this House as a candidate for the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, the largest of all the European Parliamentary Forums. That can also be a promise. Turns out Norway's on the front line. Norwegian policy is being heard – not just because we make a lot of aid money, but because we have a good policy to take out. Let's see if we're lucky in relation to, for example, Our good neighbour Russia, we know that Norway is totally dependent on a good relationship with Russia. We can't be part of a defence alliance that would find itself irritating Russia unnecessarily. That would never be in Norway's interest. That's why Norway has done a good job in NATO trying to make contact between NATO and Russia, very good in terms of both diplomacy and getting the tension that might have been there to be less. So we know that in relation to what is quality assistance and what is going to be publicly approved assistance, Norway is doing a good job in IDA and DAC in relation to what is going to be public approved assistance, ODA assistance. What we know is that we can hold at an arm's length that military assets should be it. Then we'll see that buying forest is also good help when that forest is in a way protected. It will be in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2430	I want to start as the committee leader, Olav Akselsen: this is a historic day. This is the first time in Norwegian history we reach 1 pst. in assistance. Together with Sweden, we are the only country that has done this – all over the world. We cannot send up fireworks inside the staging room, but there is every reason to celebrate. And there is every reason to send a thank you to those parties – the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left – that have contributed to our being where we are today. I also want to offer a pact with the Christian People's Party: if the Christian People's Party can't promise to run around and do what it's possible to do to bring down this big event, then I'll promise to remember every time and contribute to the Christian People's Party getting its share of the honor because we're where we are. Because if not the Christian People's Party under the Bondevik government had got this up one prom every year, it would have been much harder for the red-green government to bring this staf stick to the goal of the good and beautiful result we now have. Let me then use a lot of the post to comment on posts in the hall, and let me start with the Advance Party. Åslaug Haga has demonstrated very thoroughly how the Progress Party undermines what others think is important, namely the solidarity line in foreign policy. Let me try to prove how the Advancement Party beats itself on its mouth and undermines its own logic. If you think it is incredibly important in foreign policy and in development policy, which the Progress Party constantly argues, to have a good relationship with the United States, why undermine the two sides of Norwegian foreign and development policy in which the Americans are most interested? One is our climate and north-eastern policy. The second is our contribution to peace processes and local and regional conflict resolution. It will not be easy for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to be the head of donor country work in the Palestinian territories, and therefore be relevant to the Americans, if we have no money to contribute. It is not possible for either the Minister of Foreign Affairs or me to make a significant and effective contribution in Sudan, for example. The presidential candidate from the Republican Party had one of his closest political advisers, Williamson, as a special agent – if we don't have money to contribute. Nor will it be possible in Nepal or Burundi or Afghanistan or anywhere else. Interestingly, the Progress Party has understood the logic of needing money in Afghanistan. But why you don't need money in Palestine or Sudan or Burundi or Nepal or Sri Lanka is impossible to understand. Reality will of course be that we would be completely irrelevant in all these areas for the Americans if the Progress Party were to implement its policy. This was fully illustrated at the National Meeting of the Progress Party. Then a critic from Uganda had been invited who said a lot about assistance. But he wanted to wind up the aid to the country where he is involved in the policy. The Progress Party immediately hoped for it and felt that we should wind up aid to Uganda. But then I showed to Siv Jensen that Uganda is the most important political ally on the African continent – at least one of them. It was the first country that said it was willing to send soldiers to Somalia when the Americans asked African countries to do it. Then it suddenly became very uncertain whether it was so wise to cut off the aid to Uganda anyway. I think the Progress Party has a very significant job to do, not just to convince others that they are solidarity, but even more so to get an internal coherence in their own policies. Attacking the Government to fail in the fight against corruption, while not taking up the fight against tax havens, is another example of this kind of lack of logic. Right Finn Martin Vallersnes addressed a very important topic, which I will admit that we have not thought enough through so far, and it is the Norwegian proposal that is now very central to the international climate negotiations, to take 2 pst. of the carbon market and designation of climate adaptation measures. There's a lot of discussion about it. The EU asked Norway for its own meeting in Poznan yesterday. So this is a very central proposal. But if we are to succeed, the question of how constitutional control of this is to be carried out, how to build up control systems and a number of such issues will also arise, which we – encouraged by what Vallersnes said – will take a much more thorough look at. But let's also say that we're in the initial phase of this discussion. It will hardly be carried out identically with the proposal Kristin Halvorsen in his time. We are in dialogue with many, and we need to develop the proposal. But using the carbon market is the only realistic way to get the big extra funding for climate adaptation that we need. Vallersnes was also involved in ownership and budget support. I have no problem saying that there is conditionality related to budget support. We don't give budget support to dictators. I also agree with the Left that we must take a new round and look at the situation in Nicaragua, where very disturbing features are seen. We provide budget support to countries where there is a minimum of control bodies in the form of audit measures, opposition, control in the national Parliament, etc. – not at Norwegian level, but where there are elements thereof. Of course, there is conditionality when we provide budget support, just as there is conditionality in a series of other areas of Norwegian aid. It is something quite different than the specific form of conditionality for which the World Bank and the money fund were known. Ågot Valle took up the role of the United Nations in the financial crisis. It supported Norway in Doha. We will support that. But I also have to admit that the G20 is probably going to be the most crucial forum for debate in this area, so that we have to contribute both to that system and through the UN and in a series of other ways. Of course, women's bets are very central. Both the Christian People's Party and the Left have called for more concentration of aid, but almost without making a single suggestion as to what to cut it down on. But there are a number of suggestions for where to do more, as well. The new countries where Norway has increased assistance in recent years are Madagascar, Burundi, Liberia and now Congo. If there's a desire to cut some of these, let's at least get it on the table, so we can have a realistic debate on this. The only proposal I hear about cuts in aid – not just putting more things on top of what the government is doing – concerns Latin America. But let's remember that most of the money for Latin America goes to forest action, which we all agree on. The second most of the money goes to oil for development, which the whole Stortinget has also agreed to. The third largest recipient is IDEA, the Swedish organisation headed by former Secretary of State Vidar Helgesen. I see that there has also been a broad consensus that it is good to support their democratic actions. I have no problem admitting that aid to Latin America is ideologically motivated. It's based on the ideology called democracy. It's a very important ideology. Democracy in Latin America now turns out to have two female presidents, one has a trade union leader as president, one has a representative of the indigenous population as president, and one has the bishop of the poor as president of Paraguay. There has been a huge expansion of the breadth of democracy, just as we have had in Norway, where first the agricultural movement, then the labour movement and then the women and the indigenous representatives have entered into the policy. It deserves support. This ideology, called democracy, should be supported by all of us. Finally, I would like to stress what the Minister for Foreign Affairs was about, because it is the seventh and last of all the most important thing now: how can we connect the short-term management of the financial crisis in our own system, in the form of the crisis package on which the Government is now consulting the opposition, and which will come to the Storting in January, where there will be short-term employment measures? But we must also help turn the Norwegian economy into a more long-term, green direction, with the same logic internationally: how to achieve global economy regulation and global stimulation that contributes to a greener economy? What gives cause for hope is, above all, that the most important leaders in the world have been so clear in this area. I am not thinking of Norwegian politicians, who have also been clear about it, but both Obama, the Chinese Prime Minister, Wen, and Sarkozy, on behalf of the French Presidency of the European Union, have all been quite crystal clear that we want to ensure that the poorest countries do not suffer from this crisis, that the climate crisis should be used to turn the economy in a greener direction, and that we will never use the financial crisis as an excuse for not doing anything about the climate. It's promising. There is always a leap between political words and action, but it is also very, very important that the political words are said, because it sets the framework for what is being done. The poorest countries may be hit, not as much of aid reductions as of smaller exports, fewer investments, less tourism and less money sent home from immigrants, for example. Here in the country. Countries facing all these problems may face very significant problems as a result of the financial crisis. I have no problem with the proposal put forward by the Progress Party here. Let's see if there are some developing countries among Norway's main partners to which we are going to take special action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2462	I would first like to say that I am satisfied with the signals given in the case of Nicaragua. I had also hoped that the government parties would have taken part in the comments we have in the budget position, but it is important that the Council of State does something here. When it comes to making itself relevant to the United States, it seems that there is a red thread primarily in government policy, as the Council of State here argues. We're independent of the United States when it comes to many international issues – we have no problem with that. Did I really hear the Council say that everyone should go in to continue the assistance to Uganda, because they do a lot of good that the United States appreciates? Probably I heard wrong. Does not the Council of State agree that there are worrying features in the development of Uganda, and that the Museveni increasingly adopts an authoritarian position, which it is important to point out in order to try to help Uganda become democratic, as we wish, and as we have faith is best for the people of Uganda?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2471	Let me first say that I think we are all concerned about the development of Nicaragua, where there were significant questions about local elections just, and where there is an abortion policy that is more rigid than in any other country in the world, as far as I know. That concern will be expressed by the fact that we will review our cooperation programmes with Nicaragua, among others. on the question of whether it is possible to continue to provide budgetary support. What conclusions are drawn there will of course depend on developments in Nicaragua, but we would like to come back to the Storting with assessments of it at a later stage. When it comes to the relationship with the United States, it's the government's view that it's absolutely vital to have a good relationship with the United States. I just heard Martti Ahtisaari say that it is almost impossible to create peace in some conflict areas of the world without a good cooperation with the United States. So we emphasise that cooperation, both in terms of peace policy, in terms of aid, and in terms of the environment. That doesn't mean that we always agree with the Americans, but we emphasize that cooperation. It must be an extra-large cross of thought for the Progress Party, which has almost made the relationship with the United States its only core point in foreign policy, that it will suffer most from the Progress Party's own policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2480	I think the Minister for Development is making a formidable effort to promote innovative financial instruments – I felt it in close proximity in Doha. I think it's a solid work. If it wasn't because I assumed that I must have misunderstood, I think my sparing hair had stood up on my head when I got a sort of perception that one has not thought in advance about how to review, manage, control and monitor what one spends this money for, and how it happens. It is clear that one has national institutions both on the donor side and on the recipient side. You have Bretton Woods, you have private institutions. There are probably different ways to do this, but I have to think that you've already been in that thinking, and you've put it up in front, because otherwise I have to say that I think it's highly objectionable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2487	We have of course thought about how the money can be used. But there are two elements here. It will be most difficult to get global agreement on how to bring in the money. That is the Norwegian proposal on 2 pst. Come in. Then you also need a global consensus on how to use the money. Here you can imagine both the current UN organisations, one can imagine the World Bank, and you can imagine creating new organisational structures during the UN climate negotiations. All of these elements are possible. But it is clear that if you succeed in funding as substantial as this, we are talking about completely different amounts than what is being managed by the UN organisations today. Then, of course, we also need to look at governance structures and control mechanisms for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2492	The Christian People's Party is well pleased that the aid budget is now on 1 p.m. – we even wanted to move on. But at the same time, we always ask questions about the use of money, like in 2007, when Statkraft went through SNPower and bought the hydroelectric power company Electroandes from an American company. Then Norfund shot in at 525 million. kr, which went directly into the pocket of the American company. What we achieved was increased Norwegian ownership. Nevertheless, such purchases are reported as Norwegian official development aid. If, on the other hand, it had been supported by the development of a hydroelectric power plant, where the funds might have gone locally, it would have been okay, but here the values go right to Norway, and the financial support goes to the American company. How can a Swedish State Council defend this as official development aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2497	First, I would like to thank Mr. KrFU's manager for not continuing with what I have characterized in the newspapers as a surmulant, and for being able to enjoy together that we have got the aid budget up to 1 pst. I think this is a very relevant discussion, which is all sorts of reason to take. I believe that the Bondevik government has put far too little emphasis on industrial measures in developing countries, that they had a too critical and defensive attitude to the importance of business. The great lesson we have learned from countries especially in Asia, such as China, Vietnam, South Korea, etc., is the enormous power of private investment. That's why I want to stimulate several of them. An entirely central area for Norway to attract more private investment in is hydropower development. We have a lot of competence in it. If any developing country really needs, it's more clean energy. Hydropower can in many cases replace highly polluting production methods, such as: generators, heavy oil-fired power plants, coal-fired power plants, etc. So we need more and no less hydropower.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2506	As I mentioned in my post, the left is concerned with the quality of the assistance, and according to the figures we received from the Ministry of Finance, less than 1.5 pst. of the overall aid budget for quality assurance in 2007. I think this is too small, when we think about the large amounts that we are now spending on aid – and under completely different conditions. I think it is so important to maintain broad political support for assistance in the future among the population. Therefore, it is important to focus on quality. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Development why his good intentions to strengthen the quality of the aid are not being followed up with more money in this state budget. Or will there be more focus on this in next year's notified assistance message?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2513	It's a very good and important question, but I think we also have to agree that there is actually a dilemma here, because quality assurance of assistance, as the representative sees it, necessarily means several Norwegian positions. There are several people, an official, who are going to check the assistance, while at the same time I perceive very much the mood among many, that you want to make sure that the money comes out. So there's a balance in it. I think we're pretty much on that balance. We've done a lot to ensure quality. NORAD's evaluations are a very important part of it. We have established a control system for anti-corruption that I think competes with everyone else in the world – probably it's best, at least it's among the best, with a separate control unit in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with a law firm connected to this, with a warning sign, etc. Both in terms of monitoring and in terms of improving efficiency and ensuring continuous evaluation, we have moved on. But there is a continuous discussion in the future, in my opinion, about exactly where the balance lies, through domestic positions that drive evaluation and control of the money out to the recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2520	We're glad the government has a good relationship with the United States. It should have any Norwegian government, but, like the Government, the Progress Party also has independent assessments. And the Council of State exaggerates the importance that the United States must have for our foreign policy. Back to Nicaragua. We have addressed this before in the Chamber, and the Council of State has been responding to the challenges. Did we perceive the Council of State correctly when we perceived him there that he was willing to threaten to withhold budget support if one did not see positive progress in Nicaragua, and if development continues in the same wrong direction as it has done in the past year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2527	I do not want to put it that way: 'true with holding back budget support'. I would rather say that Norwegian budget support requires that in a country receiving budget support there are reasonable conditions for the aid to function. This means that it is a qualified opposition that it is a parliamentary process that there are audit systems – in short, these conditions must be in place for budget support to work. I'm worried about developments in Nicaragua, I'm not hiding it. We'll have to follow it forward, and then we'll have to draw our conclusions in dialogue over the next year. I would also like to say that it is of course a little alarming when the Progress Party believes that we are exaggerating the importance of the United States. I believe that the Progress Party must go back to its own ceiling of thinking and really assess whether one can have the same relationship with the United States that we have today if one is to ruin the two areas in which the Americans are really interested in in Norway. It is our role in regional conflicts – not least the role of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Middle East – and it is climate and north-eastern policy. That's what they come to Norway to discuss, that's what they'll discuss when we're there. If we drop that, it'll be fine to talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2534	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2538	International cooperation is important in order to safeguard Norwegian interests, but also important in order to make the values on which we believe that international development should be based. We must use all available arenas for influence and influence — at Nordic, European and transatlantic levels and at UN level. The possibility of influence has less to do with land size than with the offensive attitude and the values with which you go into discussions. I want to commend the Government and our foreign policy management for a clear and visible increase in activity internationally, whether in the North, NATO, Europe, climate change or initiatives and participation in addressing issues of major international importance. To date, I must mention the Convention on the Prohibition of Class Ammunition, which was signed by over 100 countries here in Oslo last week. At the same time, there is a need for popular anchoring. It is in this perspective that the majority, all parties with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party, will increase the allocation to, among others. voluntary organisations working with peace and conflict resolution, thereby mobilising a popular commitment. In the context of today's form of EU membership, through, inter alia: The EEA Agreement conducts an active European policy for the Government. The main aim is to take care of Norwegian interests and influence decisions in the EU, which we know are increasingly having consequences for Norway. I read with interest today's political comment in the VG on non-membership in the EU, described as legislation per. copy engine and that the claim of the democratic deficit in the EU was more relevant to Norway’s relationship with the EU through the EEA Agreement. We absolutely need to have a ‘meeting’ attitude and discussion, as I believe the Foreign Minister has expressed it, to the way Iceland is taking, in the light of its ongoing debate on the future relationship with the EU. I have registered that someone will have a thorough external evaluation of the EEA Agreement from a more general perspective, in addition to the continuous review that gives the stamp of approval from a practical political point of view. That could be interesting. In view of the time taken to assess one directive, the Services Directive, we must well assume that a review of the EEA Agreement will probably take several years. Within the framework of the EEA Agreement, the Government has followed up the ambitions of an active European policy towards Stortinget in a good way, with previous involvement and broader anchoring in the dialogue on and impact on EU and EEA matters for the purpose. I am also pleased with the Government's contribution to a greater extent of public space information and debate on such matters, both by means of the budget for information on European cooperation and by the establishment of the National European Forum. It is necessary that the Government continuously analyse developments in the EU from the perspective of impact. Here I can mention the key to the launch in the EU of cross-sectoral strategies and legislative packages, the increasing importance of the European Parliament and the tendency towards bilateralisation within the EU. Norway contributes, by way of large amounts, through the EEA financial instruments, to reducing the economic and social disparities in Europe. The Foreign Affairs Committee is committed to strengthening bilateral relations between Norway and the recipient countries through the arrangements. The negotiations on new contributions need to focus more on the elements of Norwegian administration and cooperation projects with Norwegian actors in priority areas. In this context, the input from the social partners is to include the social dimension as the objective and social partners as the target group for the development of cooperation relations between Norway and the new EU countries. The Nordic model of working life is an important export product and cooperation can contribute positively to the problem of social dumping. The Committee welcomes the fact that Norway is a major contributor to strengthening civil society in the recipient countries, including: with the establishment of NGO funds. The authorities must help to ensure that smaller organisations, such as: child organisations and youth organisations may participate in the development of cooperation projects. I would like to point out two points in relation to the North, first of all, the increased attention to the North and the special issues one faces there, and how it has increased in the North, Europe and over the Atlantic. Cooperation relations are extended beyond the bilateral relationship with Russia. The northern dimension of the EU has been extended to the Barents region. Greater understanding of the challenges in the north and the need for comprehensive solutions, including: based on the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea. The second point is the relationship with Russia. It is desirable and necessary to cooperate well with our neighbours in the east, but at the same time we need to have an open dialogue and to make timely criticisms about developments in Russia, human rights, freedom of expression or overreaction in the conflict with Georgia. Russia must be held responsible in relation to the institutions of which they are a member, for example: The Council of Europe and the international conventions which they themselves have signed. My point is that Norway and Europe must continue to develop cooperation with Russia on the basis of mutual dependence, but express clear criticism when violations of international conventions and human rights occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2572	Norway’s foreign policy is becoming increasingly politically correct, and we would prefer to take positions that do not provoke anyone. Grace to those who doubt whether Norway should contribute money and peace mediation in Congo, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Burundi, Sudan or the Middle East. As citizens of a rich country, we must have a constant conscience for warriors and conflicts, even in the most remote places on the planet. However, the burden of proving Norway’s gigantic foreign policy involvement lies with the politically correct elite. The burden of proof lies with all those who claim that Norway's interests are best protected if we engage in conflicts in Africa, Asia and South America. It is the politically correct who must justify why Norway has a moral responsibility to contribute to the resolution of conflicts we as a nation do not have any cultural or historical prerequisites to understand. It is the politically correct who must be able to refer to countries and areas where aid has led to growth and prosperity. It is the politically correct who must be able to mention countries and areas where aid has led to less economic dependence and the establishment of fundamental democratic rights. It is neither merciful, clever, reasonable, fair, nor morally correct to continue to increase aid to countries and territories which are constantly developing new despots and tyrannicals, and which, at the same time, do not fully enjoy elementary rights or well-being for their own people. It does not testify to good morals to continue to pour out mild gifts to countries and territories that at the same time spend enormous sums on abundant luxury for the country's elite. Nor is it good moral to continue the aid to countries that spend huge sums on weapons. I am not alone in calling for foreign policy and a foreign minister who dares to make courageous foreign policy choices. I, and many with me, demand a foreign minister who says clearly and clearly that President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe is a tyrant who has failed his people and ruined his country. And we are calling for a foreign minister who, in international forums, says that Robert Mugabe is a racist who has confiscated landowners from the country's white productive farms. I call on a foreign minister who does not accept that Norway's assistance to the Palestinian territories is being misused for indoctrination of Palestinian children. At the same time as Norway transfers budgetary support to Fatah, the beneficiaries of the aid providepropaganda on state television channels. On these television channels, six-seven-year-old girls perform with hijab, telling us Israel doesn't exist. Here you see the doll theater where the White House is transformed into a mosque, where President George Bush is killed with a knife. Here the history of the Jews is falsified. It is claimed that all Jews are evil, and that they do not deserve to live. It should not be a difficult foreign policy balance to tell the Palestinian authorities that Norway will not contribute a single penny until this hate propaganda is removed from state television. No, we actually have a moral duty to say that. Norway has built its prosperity on trade with other nations. This has been possible only because other countries have access to our market. During the WTO negotiations, developing countries were in line to gain access to Western markets, not to compete with our production of advanced technologies, but to compete in areas where their competitive advantage is evident. But despite the fact that our own development and prosperity were created on the basis of access to other countries' markets, this is not something we dare today's developing countries to take advantage of. I miss a foreign minister who says clearly and clearly that international trade contributes to growth and prosperity, and who wants other countries to welcome their products to our market. Iran has over several years had a programme for the enrichment of uranium. Most observers believe that Iran has ambitions to develop nuclear weapons, and that it is likely to succeed in the next two years. The entire stability of security policy in Asia and the Middle East will change if Iran succeeds in its ambitions. When we know that Iran's president wants to remove Israel from the map and throw all Jews at sea, an Iran with nuclear weapons is a threat to all freedom-loving people. But what does Norway think about this? To date, Norway has been silent on this very serious challenge. Can the Foreign Minister confirm that Norway will not accept an Iran with nuclear weapons and that Norway will support all necessary measures to prevent this from happening? Or is the answer to dialogue, no matter what the challenge? And what about one of the world's greatest challenges, population growth? The demographic projections of the United Nations show that the world's population will increase by more than 200 million people each year. Population explosions will take place in unstable areas where economic growth and prosperity are low. Where is Norway’s voice in relation to this? Why is Norway's foreign minister not out there warning against this development? Why does the Minister of Foreign Affairs not call a spade a spade and say straight away that this development is not sustainable and that countries must break their religious and cultural taboos so that growth can be limited? In recent years we have witnessed more and more grotesque attacks by Muslim extremists. These are people who, on the basis of their understanding of Islam, claim that they have a duty and a right to kill people who do not confess to their extreme form of Islam, including all of us in this room. Every time such an attack takes place, Norway’s response is as predictable as it is in vain. Then we must have more dialogue and no reception that can provoke the Islamists. Included in such comments is an easily transparent fear, far exceeding the will to defend democratic values and universal rights. Former professor at Princeton University Bernard Lewis writes in his book ‘Cultures in Conflict’ the following: «It may be that western cultures will engage go; thelack of consideration of many of those who should be its defenders and the passionate intensity of itsaccuses may well join to complete its destruction. But if it does go, the men and women of all continents will thereby be impoverished and renewed."
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2615	Thank God, I'm now going to contribute to the debate getting more exciting. Since Ågot Valle in his post on behalf of SV has taken on board the broader perspectives, I will, not surprisingly, take to myself the northern regions. Through this budget that we are adopting today, the North Region Initiative will be strengthened by approximately SEK 1/2 billion. That means that during this period we have increased the bet on the north areas by about NOK 1 billion. The fact that the North became the strategic main focus of this government means that it is shown in practical policy. This is reflected in measures dealing with social development in the northern part of the country, such as: through regional research funds, through investment in tourism, and through the fact that we are now spending DKK 1 billion on industrial development in the north. However, this has also been demonstrated in measures such as: navigation of the seabed, polar exploration efforts, strengthening of oil protection preparedness, which is formidable in the next year's budget, and in the form of increased opportunities for Arctic cooperation. These measures show that north-eastern policy is about complex objectives. It is about resource management, it is about security policy and about sovereignty. And the derivation of these major policy objectives is also about employment and construction. Therefore, this width is required in measures. The point is that the north would not have been so interesting for Norway if it hadn't been for a whole bunch of people at the top of the world. Global power policy is changing dramatically. In May I stood here and pointed to China's role in world politics, that the Chinese economy grew by 10 pst. Every year and has done so for 30 years, and that China owns much of the debt of the United States. I would point out that the domestic debt in the United States is 140 pst. the income, while the country has accumulated a trade deficit of $5,000 billion over the last ten years. I wish I had knocked on the table when I said so! In the midst of an international financial crisis, caution should be exercised in saying something secure about the future. The only thing we know is that the world is going to change. Then it could be an intellectual exercise to reconcile itself with the fact that history's evolution doesn't happen linearly. The financial crisis has been a useful reminder of that. There is still some lack in the international community that we are taking the climate crisis equally seriously. It is when we look to the north, that we can easily understand the security challenges of our time, not primarily dominated by military threats – no, mainly dominated by climate and environment and by challenges related to resource security in the broadest sense. That is why it is so important that this government has made the northern regions the main strategic focus. Because geopolitics are back. Geographical conditions are important in global policy. National interests are still decisive and are becoming increasingly relevant in the interaction between states, and thus also in the relationship of power between states globally. It is said that what Norway and Russia have in common in the first place is a great neighbour in the east. Russia is repatriated and reorientated. The country is self-reliant, as all other sovereign states are self-reliant. Last week I visited the Coast Guard Quadron Nord in Sortland and got an interesting letter about the status per. today. It's always interesting to be with Coast Guard, because then one can follow the way things are constantly changing in relation to Russia. That visit was probably a reminder that we need to balance the need for cooperation on the one hand and the need to assert Norwegian interests on the other. In the last few years, important grips have been made on both areas. I would like to highlight in particular the Government's efforts to combat illegal fishing, which turns out to be a result, but new developments make it appear that there is a need to step up efforts and a slightly different effort in time to come. Then I would like to highlight the need for dialogue with Russia, both in terms of nuclear safety, focus on health and social challenges, industrial cooperation and people for people's cooperation. Norway has great interests in the north, but we don't have at least a big responsibility in the north. Today, I believe that most people in the Norwegian public opinion perceive this major focus on the north as something of course. It is not. It is a consequence of political choices and priorities, initiated by this plurality. It wasn't until this plural took over. The budget that we are adopting today is such a priority that strengthens the focus on the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2641	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2644	It's been 60 years since the UN Declaration of Human Rights was signed, and as case rapporteur for the chapter on human rights, I would like to add some comments to it. The external budget attaches great importance to the fact that the promotion of human rights is an integral part of both foreign and development policy. The fight for human rights is about protecting the individual from oppression and abuse. Each individual — men, women and children — is unique, with inviolable rights. It is not that any human rights apply today and others tomorrow. Nor is it the case that some apply to men and some to women. Human rights must be universal and cannot, to say the least, be cultural-related. We cannot accept other norms because of culture, tradition or religion. There are too many who in the last decades have seduced the fear of being labeled as cultural imperialists. For example, we have to do this. do not accept the use of culture by male elites or family heads as an argument for violence against women, whether in the form of forced marriage, sexual mutilation or the criminalisation of abortion. Several of us have been working in recent years to get gender-based repression into place as a basis for political asylum in Norway, such as the United Kingdom. Canada has. It is particularly for the sake of women asylum seekers from Iran that we also believe that it must be a permanent foreign attaché at the Tehran Embassy. In particular, Norway’s work on human rights has been aimed at protecting and strengthening vulnerable groups, as well as at reducing the risk of conflict and contributing to stable societal development. And great emphasis is placed on, among other things. the fight against the death penalty and freedom of expression. We are also committed to protecting and strengthening those who defend human rights. Different types of concrete instruments are needed, both in national and international efforts to strengthen human rights. One instrument is human rights houses as part of the Human Rights House Foundation. There are seven houses established, including: one in Belarus. In the next round, it may be right to focus on the Caucasus. Azerbaijan and Georgia. Finally, may I mention the PEN project 'The House of Authors' in Afghanistan, which is a very important institution in a vulnerable society. I want to pay tribute to the efforts of the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at this house, which I think can mean a lot to authors in a country where freedom of expression is not so easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2659	I noticed that the representative of Åsa Elvik is impressed with the Northern Region of the Government. But my experience from the part of the country she comes from is that there is not as much cheer in North Norway for the North Region bet in total. On 1 December 2006, the Government presented its Northern Region Policy in Tromsø with Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and with a larger number of ministers on Northern Norwegian soil than ever before. That made an important point of it. Now all the departments on the track for the Northern Region bet. We have passed on 1 December 2008, and I will claim that there is a disappointed part of the country back. It was with an offensive foreign minister – he is to be commended for the work in the field of foreign policy – otherwise, in my view, the North Region bet is as thin as the booklet where one has summed up the entire bet. This is because the funds that have come have been picked from the budgets of the different departments, and they would have been there whether we have a North Region bet or not to a very large extent. But now leave it. I want to focus on a large north-eastern project that is dedicated to special attention in the setting. The Christian People's Party is strongly involved in the New Corridor project through Narvik, based on existing rail networks through Sweden, Finland, Russia and China. An overall opposition has joined the note from the Christian People's Party and granted 2 million. kr for the preparation and testing of the project. There has now been a process with New Corridor from 1998 until this government joined. One of the first foreign ministers did, was to put the project dead, at my discretion, when one refused to provide funds for trial and investigation of whether the corridor was valid. On a written question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, a defensive and disappointing answer was signed. The Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed out that he had received positive feedback from Kazakhstan, China and Russia, but he had not been able to clarify real commercial interests and real users, and therefore concludes that he will continue to sit on the fence. That was exactly the money that was to be spent on by the company when one started to get a test drive on this route. My question is: Will the Foreign Minister take seriously the challenge from the opposition and support the new attempt to achieve the China-US transport corridor, with Narvik as a hub port? Some of those who were originally there are now trying to get this back on track. It would have been interesting to get an answer from the Foreign Minister during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2672	Let me first say that I think a big mistake is if you're trying to reduce the area bet to just a question of dollars and cents. It has been focused on the special problems you have in the north, and not least on getting international attention when it comes to these things, which have been an important and decisive part of the work. By putting this on the agenda, there has also been a much greater benefit in getting international attention to the special challenges. The background to my request is that I should like to comment briefly on three of the proposals that have been put forward. In the case of proposal No: 1, it is that the Ministry of Finance will now have a review of the ethical guidelines of the State pension fund — Foreign investment. In this context, one shall also look at the investment profile, including proposals that are in the direction of what is mentioned in this proposal. I therefore believe that the intentions of the proposal are clear. In the case of proposals No. 3 and No 6, the State Council of Solheim and Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre have referred to them in positive terms, and they should be in line with the policy of the Government. I would therefore ask those who have put forward these proposals, that they amend the proposals for transmission proposals, so that we do not get a vote on them tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2681	We can be proud of the efforts Norway has made for developing countries. We can be proud of the budget that lies here, where we actually have an increase to the world's poorest. We need democratic work in a country like this. Belarus, which I visited on weekends, where students are thrown into prison or not able to complete their education because they are doing opposition work. We need education and health in a country like Kenya, where poor people actually die of simple diseases that we could help them with. We need nutrient development in a country like Uganda, where there is enormous potential. Then it is sad to see the party that wants to cut brutally in the assistance that has been shown to be successful, and that we know will work in the years to come. But at the same time, I also have to say that the kind of assistance we give, even in many ways, gets a little blurred. It's called a project, Statkraft and SNPower, where we use official development assistance to do the practice by buying companies abroad that are not really concrete development projects. At the same time, we also know that e.g. rainforest billions have been taken by the aid budget, where we know that the foundation is that climate and poverty are so closely linked. But the same argument is not as good when the Minister for the Environment and Development of the NRK commends Statoil's oil extraction from tar sand and calls it a success – it is at least quoted as such. We have a responsibility for the world's poorest. We have a responsibility for the climate. We may have an even greater responsibility because we have an enormous opportunity to do something because of the wealth that we have, and the way that we have built up the wealth. But we are also obliged to continue the escalation of real assistance. This means that we need to provide assistance and not be involved in the practice of what is called official development work, what is called effective and real assistance. It is therefore important that we stress that the budget that is to come should also be reviewed in order to clarify that the assistance we provide is in line with a standard that the OECD also wants it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2690	The debate has shown broad agreement on the main lines of Norwegian foreign and aid policy. This does not prevent large differences between individual parties in this room and the majority, not least in the area of aid policy. It has also been confirmed in this debate. Nevertheless, we need a critical debate between ourselves, which is accompanied by high ambitions in aid policy, precisely because it will make aid policy better. Now the Council of State offered a peace agreement with the Christian People's Party. If we stopped pulling the greatness of this expansive aid budget down, he would stop accusing the leader of the Christian People's Party of being in the last mood – that's something I saw in the post. Then I have to say that from the Christian People's Party we have always marked that there is a good budget that has been presented, and there is reason to celebrate it. But I might say that the Council of State doesn't have to rewrite the story in order to have reason to celebrate it, as he does when he says it's the first time Norway has achieved 1 pst. of GNI in aid. He doesn't know that. Nor is it because we are happy that the aid budget is increasing, that there can be no room for the necessary critical border crossings, and we intend to continue that. So the Council of State will probably have to complain that he will meet aid criticism from two fronts in the future as well. But I want to take his challenge on the constructive and point out what has been said about the relationship between climate adaptation assistance and what is primarily global action for the atmosphere. Is the Council of State willing to enter into a border crossing between these extremes in the notification he has notified to the Storting? I would like an answer to that question. Finally, I would like to point out that the debate has made it clear from both the Left and Right speakers that there will be a subsidiary vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's distribution within the framework, and I would ask that the vote be put to the vote so that it can be done. While I have the floor, I would also like to say that this is what the Council of State and the chairman of the Committee have formulated in terms of their intention and support for the intention in proposal No. 1, as proposers, we can turn it into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2703	The President will act on the request for such a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2707	We live in changeable times, and it even hits the Norwegian Storing by the fact that roles tend to change. I have noted with interest that in this debate, the Foreign Policy Spokesman of the Progress Party argued that Norway must free itself from the United States of America in foreign policy, while an SV State Council has argued very warmly and enthusiastically for the opposite point of view, namely that the main concern of Norwegian foreign policy is that we should not be irritating the United States. In the last growing-up period, I believe that it had brought him the characteristic ‘puddle’ from his party leader, who was then SV’s spokesperson in the Foreign Affairs Committee. But the roles change, and the times change. The main reason why I asked for the floor was nevertheless Solheim's defense for the priority of Latin America from the current government. The Council of State said that the ideology underlying this is democracy. It is a creative form of language use, and a very inappropriate form of language use. Democracy is not a very precise concept, nor is it the term ‘ideology’. The precision level will be drastically lower in both terms if you put similarity signs between them. Democracy as a form of governance is not in any meaningful sense by the concept of an ideology. Then I must say that I have a much greater sense of Winston Churchill's famous statement about democracy – it was written in the middle of World War II: the only thing that can be said in favour of democracy as a form of government is that all alternatives are even worse. It sounds cynical, in return, there is a very realistic way of justifying democracy, which is far preferable to the kind of enthusiasm that I had the feeling that the Council of State of Solheim based on its definition of the term. It would not be wise, according to my concepts, to allow Norwegian preferences in development policy to be governed by it at all times by the enthusiasm of the development minister for individual politicians or parties in the countries to which development aid should be directed. It will provide a cyclical bond that cannot be useful either for Norway or for those countries receiving such development assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2718	It is not surprising to me that the representative Tybring-Gjedde misses me in some discussions. I must reassure him here today that I will not be able to satisfy or play it missing in any way. I respect the fact that the debate here in Stortinget is a debate between opposition and government. We have received comments in the setting and articles here with interest and respect. But I wonder, I have to be allowed to say, that no other representatives on the civil side feel inspired to think anything about the post by the representative Tybring-Gjedde. First of all, I found that there was a strong contrast between tone and device for the normally quite sensible posts we get from the representative, Højlund, who is the spokesperson of the Progress Party. But there'll now be variations within all of the games. I believe that we, the representative Tybring-Gjedde and I, have quite different understanding of what it means to have courage to conduct foreign policy. I think we have a rather different view of what it means to be an elite when it comes to operating foreign policy, and to promoting a vision that, in my opinion, expresses a Western elitist view of economics and distribution, foreign policy and justice in our world. I can be quite clear that Norway has been critical of Robert Mugabe in Zimbabwe in writing, orally, directly and from all the interlocutors and that it has stopped the state aid. We have been clear on the IAEA Board of Directors, bilaterally and in all forums regarding Iran's nuclear programme. We are also very clear about all kinds of hate campaigns and arguments. The last thing I think is that Tybring-Gjedde's representative should think about himself, in the quite perceptive analysis he gave when it came to population development, where he placed responsibility for an increasing population on certain religions and certain cultures. It is implemented in practical policy, I believe, as a frightening picture. Then I'd like to tell the representative Sahl that he's making a lot of great contributions to the north areas, which I value. His commitment to the corridor in Narvik is married, and I'll follow it up. The situation in 2006 was suddenly in need of more than 30 million. kr to carry out a pilot project in the middle of the period. We didn't have budgetary resources for that, and we had to say no to that, because of the lack of quality of the project. I record that it is now a matter of an overall opposition joining forces to grant 2 million. kr for that purpose. It's uncertain to me whether it's enough to run a test, but we're going to evaluate the situation. Then I have to say that on several occasions the representative Sahl has been dealing with the Northern Territory documents and said that here are fine words, but no content – and was very critical of it. I respect that, but I have found nothing else in the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party than the 2 million. kr to this corridor. I would like to get an answer to this: Where is the big promise in money – in dollars and ears – at the Northern Region bet in the budgetary position of the Christian People's Party? At least I haven't got it with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2731	The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the representative of Akselen, wanted us to be able to re-do some of the proposals for transmission proposals. As regards proposal No: 1, the representative has already said something about it, and we share that view. Nevertheless, I must be allowed to say that we are a little uncertain whether the consensus is as perfect as it might have been presented here. We'll see about that. We do feel that it is a distance, but we would like to see the Government's willingness to meet us. Proposals Nos. 3 and 6 are set to turn into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2740	I am pleased that the Christian People's Party's negative attitude towards what has been presented by the Government has now turned to a positive basic attitude, and that we can then agree that it is very good what is happening here today. It's not right that it's not the first time – it's the first time we've achieved 1 pst. of GNI in aid. The 1 pst. which was reached in the 1980s, was achieved on a completely different basis of calculation, which cannot be compared to what we have today. When I have not spent the time renouncing it, it is in respect of Reidun Brusletten. She did great and important things in Norwegian aid. Why in the world am I going to spend my time proving that what happened then is something completely different that's happening now? I was at a meeting with Reidun Brusletten just, where she even asked the assembly to pray for me! I thought it was great. Let's not get such a pointless argument between people in this assembly who, on the fundamental issues, really agree – in contrast not least to the Advancement Party. I've never expressed a single positive attitude to tar sands. On the contrary, I have expressed many critical questions to Statoil's choice to bet on tar sands in Canada. I'll keep doing that. On the other hand, when Canadian authorities are now trying to develop carbon capture and storage in response to the criticism of tar sand extraction, it is a positive response that can also give Canada and Norway things to cooperate on – for carbon capture and storage, an important technology to develop for the world, whether it is used on tar sands or on coal or oil. The representative Tybring-I wish to talk about population growth. Let me just say that there's a well-tested recipe for reducing population growth in the world -- it's been working everywhere -- and it's evolution. Wherever there is development — not least women’s development — education, knowledge and economic progress, the population is falling as a rock. And it doesn't matter whether it's a country with Christians, Jews, Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs or whatever it is – it works everywhere. And that's exactly the recipe that the Progress Party then opposes through its practical policy. Then finally to Inge Wage. I really cannot with my best will understand that it is so difficult for the Right to express joy over what is happening in Latin America – a broad movement in countries by country. Small, elitist elites and military dictatorships that have run almost all countries in Latin America in the last ten years are now replaced by widely anchored democratic processes, which in turn bring to power the indigenous representatives, women, trade union leaders and Catholic bishops. Churchill’s main contribution during World War II — since it has been brought forward — in addition to standing firm in 1940 — was that he, more than anyone else, formulated what the conflict was all about. He formulated the ideology of the Second World War, namely democracy and human rights. It led right into the UN Declaration of Human Rights in 1945, and it led to the decolonization. It was no longer possible to maintain the colonial rule as a result of the ideology that Winston Churchill had formulated more than anyone else, even though he was in alliance with Stalin and others during World War II. So I insist that democracy is a very important ideology, and not least Churchill has contributed to its spread in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2760	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his approach to New Corridor. I'll be just as clear and say that I think our foreign minister has a strong commitment to the New Corridor, but it's been in a state for a period. That period began when the engagement stopped because there was no state support to continue the corridor. My point is that a grouping of those involved in the start-up phase – plus the county municipality plus the railway station – had a meeting last week, where they said we were going to start and see if it is possible to respond to the foreign minister's demands for us. But then they need funds, and as far as we've been told, these are 2 million. SEK – 3 million. kr. We found $2 million. kr that we could input, and a total opposition is behind it. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs challenged me on the content of the Northern Region operation in total, I stand firm for what I have said. I have given commendation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a strong commitment to the North in the field of foreign policy – we have every reason to be proud of that – but the other ministers who were in Tromsø, we see very little, and we see little of it in the other budgets. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs calls for the efforts of the Christian People's Party in this area, one cannot find it in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - there is a list of what the Government itself has put in - but one must go into the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party and look at what we have spent, for example. to infrastructure in North Norway. There has been a steady decline in this period of government, and the Minister of Transport replies that there were no more projects in the national transport plan. The national transport plan is a guiding framework, and there is great disappointment in the part of the country that there has been no more funding for infrastructure when we are investing in this area, according to the Minister of Transport. It's just one of the areas I miss here. I have pointed out before that if you look at what is prioritized and taken into account in what has been collected in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you can ask yourself about seismic shooting outside Troms and Nordland, about measures for illegal and unreported fishing, about the design of new ice-going research vessels are special North Sea issues, or about the tugboat capacity that has been adopted a long time ago, about new power stations in New Ålesund, about planning solutions in Kirkenes are exceptional means, or whether this would have happened in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2771	First to Foreign Minister Støre who reacted to the tone of my post. I can see that. Because I was a little fast. It's a little bit because you have to get through a manuscript -- I actually had one page left that I should have been through too. I won't take it now. But then we obviously have a little more talkative debates in the Finance Committee, where that tone is not so unusual as you have in the Foreign Affairs Committee. So to the Foreign Minister who says he's very clear on a number of points I picked up, in the closed forums, in the form of letters, etc. It would have been interesting if that kind of attitude could also be expressed so that it flows to the Norwegian people – what we actually think about Iran's nuclear programme, and what sanctions we have if Iran develops nuclear weapons. But we don't get to hear about that, except that it's expressed in the closed rooms. So to Minister of Development Solheim, who is talking about reducing population growth, and that it is happening through development. Yes, that is certainly true, but the point is that aid does not provide development. Aid does not provide development – trade gives development. And if we stop trade, we don't get development, and population growth increases. According to the United Nations, which is the favourite forum for this government, the increase of 200 million people each year is up to 2030. Then there will be 10.8 billion people on the planet – provided that this assistance continues, because I expect it to be contained in the forecasts. So it won't help. Then you have to put in other measures, and then you have to dry out talking about some taboos. You actually have to dry it. So to the representative Akselsen who had a very interesting comment. He said that the north area bet should not be a question of heads and ears, but of results. That is interesting, because almost all this debate has been on aid – there has been a debate on dollars and cents, and not on results. Obviously, it's not that important with heads and ears in the northern areas, but it's very important with heads and ears when it comes to assistance. So to the representative Nybakk who was very concerned that the values, which she did not specify, should not be cultural, not take into account religion, etc. She wouldn't compromise on this. We fully agree with that, but then you have to specify it. What are these values – freedom of expression, equality, individual freedom and secular rules of law? It is strange that the representative Nybakk is very much for assistance to countries that regularly, continuously, violate these rights, and for assistance to countries that actually have this as part of their sharia legislation. This is a country that receives assistance from Norway and regularly violates human rights. Instead, it could be said quite clearly: we do not accept this. Our taxpayers' money should not go to countries that are systematically violating human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2784	I asked for the word to carry out the conversation with the State Council of Solheim a little bit further. I registered that he had to leave the hall to frequent a nomination meeting in a party that was close to him. I understand that, but I assume that this will be brought to his knowledge, so that we can continue the conversation on a later occasion. I registered that State Council Solheim did not at all take the challenge in terms of the SV's relationship with the United States, which has undergone a rather radical reversal – as far as I can see. If I'm not completely misorientated, it's still in the SV party program for the current magnificence that the United States is the greatest danger to world peace. Then it's a paradox if the most important signal of foreign policy for this government is that it should be set up to please Washington. It must of course be characterised as a paradox. With regard to Solheim's repeated enthusiasm for Latin America – it sounds almost as if there is a revival going on all over the Latin American continent – I have to say that it would be an advantage with a less generalising attitude to a political reality that is so complex and that has so many conflicting tendencies in it. I do not believe that the current enthusiasm for power shifts, wherever on the globe, should govern which countries Norway should concentrate its aid efforts against. This could lead to very rapid coincidences and severe economic fluctuations in Norwegian policy. The very last: I don't think the relationship between Winston Churchill and Erik Solheim is directly eye-catching. I still think Winston Churchill's attitude was considerably more real political and much less idealistic than that of the Solheim State Council. It is true that during World War II Winston Churchill cooperated with Stalin – and it may be useful to recall the reasons for it. When Hitler started his invasion of Russia, Winston Churchill said the following in the House of Commons: If Hitler invades hell, we are ally with Satan. It's a real political approach that I don't trust Solheim State Council to be able to name.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2795	The representative Dagfind Højbrådet has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2798	My short comment is this: you don't make yourself big by making others small. I think we should be able to establish that Norway has had 1 pst. of its gross domestic product for aid in the past, both under labour party governments and under non-socialist cooperative governments. Of course, the basis was different, but that just means we were poorer in 1986 than we are now. So it was a lot heavier to reach 1 pst. Otherwise, I end up with the voice of the Council of State mention of Reidun Brusletten's efforts and the futility she has shown back. We're dividing it. Since the Council of Solheim is not here, I will not bother the Minister of Foreign Affairs to answer the question that Solheim did not answer. I just note that there is still an unanswered question as to whether the Government will make a proper borderline between climate adaptation assistance and what is a regular global adjustment to climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2809	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1240]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2825	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1249]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2841	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1250]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2854	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e2862	During the debate, 15 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 2 and 3, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 4, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and Left proposal No. 6, from Inge Wage on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 7-13, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposals Nos. 14 and 15, from Laila Davøy, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, The proposal Nos will first be voted on. 14 and 15, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e5538	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7–13, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e5591	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from ear, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e5606	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e5621	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e5638	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3 from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e5660	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e5675	We'll then go to the Committee's setting under area 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8320	It is the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party that are behind the setting. The President has understood that the Advance Party and the Right will vote against the vote on these Roman numbers, and that the Christian People's Party and the Left will now support the vote. - That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8365	Here it is the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left that are behind the position. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8389	Here the whole committee is behind the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8404	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gunn Olsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party Proposal No. 2, by the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, during the debate has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government: 1st@item: inlistbox Identify the working situation of midwives, including the scope of night shifts and the loads associated with accompanying services. 2nd@item: inlistbox Implement the Stortingen decision on a differentiated and decentralised maternity care.» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8433	It has been converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8438	That was proposal No. 2 but is it also proposal No. 1?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8441	The whole setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8446	All the proposals have been converted into transmission proposals. That means, as far as I can see, that the whole committee is behind the vote that the Minutes should be attached.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8451	That means that proposal No. 1 shall also be converted into a transmission proposal. Does the Labour Party agree? Gunn Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8454	Proposal No. 1 must be weighed over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8459	Yes, then it's simply to vote against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8462	The setting shall be submitted. Proposal No. So 1 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8468	In the course of the debate that has taken place, there have been so many positive signals that what is in the vote will be raised in a new case from the Government over New Year, that the whole committee supports the inclusion of the matter in the Minutes, i.e. everyone will vote in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8473	That is when proposal No is voted on. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8483	The decision of the Committee shall then be notified to the Government and shall be amended as follows: It is recommended that the Government: 1st@item: inlistbox Develop a plan to strengthen the midwife service in municipalities, both in terms of quality and capacity. Financial incentive schemes need to be assessed and inter-municipal cooperation should be facilitated. 2nd@item: inlistbox To require regional health establishments to dimension the capacity of the food supply according to birth rates, in order to ensure good capacity and effective freedom of choice with regard to the place of birth. 3rd@item: inlistbox To oblige regional health businesses to increase the quality of food supply. 4th@item: inlistbox Introduce new quality indicators for food supply. 5th@item: inlistbox Urges regional health establishments to ensure that food services are kept open as far as possible even during holidays. 6th@item: inlistbox Develop guidelines to ensure that women in active birth have an offer to have a midwife or other qualified maternity care provider present. 7th@item: inlistbox Propose legislative proposals ensuring an individual right to a qualified follow-up service, doctor or midwife, for pregnant women who have more than one hour of travel to the place of birth and who need such service. Eight. Establish cooperation agreements between health enterprises and municipalities to ensure a good follow-up in maternity. 9th@item: inlistbox Establish grant schemes to facilitate testing of different models of overall follow-up through pregnancy, childbirth and maternity. 10th@item: inlistbox Develop information material on mental health for all pregnant women. Information must also be provided in the languages of the minority population and orally to those who need it. 11th@item: inlistbox Strengthen the relief measures for pregnant and young children’s parents with mental health problems and other health or drug-related problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e8526	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e9302	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Dagfinn Højbrätten on behalf of the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2, 3 and 4, by Mr Høglund on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5, from Dagfinn Højbrätten on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 6, from Morten Højlund on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party Proposals Nos. 1 to 5 has been included in the vote, while enriched proposal No. 6 is distributed in the hall. In the course of the debate, the proposals are no. 1, 3 and 6 are converted into transmission proposals and the wording is amended accordingly. Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government examine further the proposal of the Publicised Development Committee on the establishment of a larger fund for investment in low-income countries, in particular Africa and the least developed countries. [[MUL]] Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess immediate measures to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis in those countries where Norway has development policy involvement.’» Report (Doc. A 2-196/86) by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM(86) 527 final — Doc. 6, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended to the Government of the Durban 2 Conference process to actively support initiatives to defend universal human rights and to refrain from supporting initiatives that criticise religious groups or countries in particular.’ The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e9361	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5 from the Christian People's Party on Framework Area 4. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e12849	The progress party has announced that they will go against the setting. The right, Christian People's Party and the left will now support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-09.ana.ud1828e13325	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It hasn't happened. The meeting has been cancelled.
