ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e22	From representatives Laila Davøy, Eirin Faldet, Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Asmund Kristoffersen, Alf Ivar Samuelsen and Åse M. Schmidt, all to attend the 63rd ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations, second part, in New York from 20 October to 14 November. On the proposal of the President, a unanimous decision was taken. The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the West-Agder counties: Anne Berit Andersen and Kjell Ivar LarsenFor the Hedmark counties: Tone Merete SønsterudFor the Hordaland counties: Knut Arild HareideFor the Møre and Romsdal counties: Svein GichlethFor the Nordland counties: Jon Øyvind OdlandKjell Ivar Larsen and Jon Øyvind Odland are elected to the Lamentations for the time they meet for the representatives Åse M. Schmidt and Alf Ivar Samuelsen respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e79	The representative, Martin Engeset, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e82	On behalf of André Oktay Dahl, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Jan Tore Sanner and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to strengthen minority rights in municipal and county control committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e87	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e113	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Tora Aasland State Council Lars Peder Breck State Council Day Terje Andersen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e132	My question goes to State Council Dag Terje Andersen. In my 12 years at Stortinget, I have never been contacted so much about a matter as about the conditions around Nav. What was supposed to be a success story, with one door to the case handler, and one case handler to help the user, has become a locked door or at best an entrance to many other doors and to many other case handlers. The Official Journal of Bergen on 10 October reads: ‘NAV breaks users. Ole Terland believes the NAV system in many cases contributes to cracking people instead of helping them. “I’ve met a lot of desperate people,” said the doctor. [[...]] I have seen so many examples of people feeling overwhelmed and bored when they meet the bureaucracy in the NAV apparatus in an exposed situation." I can continue with newspaper lookups after newspaper lookups, e-mails after e-mails, letters after letters from the lost relatives and people who need help. And the messages come from all over the country. The problem is that this situation has escalated and got worse and worse, year after year. In the evening post today, it says: ‘Do without follow-up. Seven out of ten without a plane last year. [[...]] [[...]] But the Riksrevision states that there are no follow-up plans in 72% of the cases checked last year." The chairman of today's Evening Post goes on to say: ‘However, the worst example from the point of view of users is that the Employment and Welfare Act does not implement the statutory follow-up of health-related users. Several Nav offices have deliberately de-prioritized the follow-up of these users.’ The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has not explained the reason for this. To me, the Nav reform seems to be completely out of control and approaching collapse. Does the Council of State think he has control of developments? And does he intend to do anything before this hits even more?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e161	The answer to the question of whether the Council of State intends to do something is yes. I have heard many stories in addition to what Kenneth Svendsen now refers to, and what has been said in the newspapers: examples of too long processing time in the Nav system, and that it is difficult to get in touch on the phone. I'm going to do something about that. It is challenging to implement a reform affecting 14,000 State employees and 3000 to 4000 municipal employees. And as the representative Svendsen knows, we are now in the middle of the implementation of the reform. There are still 160 municipalities to set up the Nav office for next year. In a situation where many will start working on new issues, much training is required. It requires much better ICT systems than what you've had so far. That's one of the main challenges. There is a large process to be carried out. In that situation, there are many who are currently being offered too badly. Some of the core issues here, in order to deal with the situation, are precisely issues that have not yet been dealt with, which the representative Svendsen is also concerned about – rightly. It is precisely the unfinished business that leads to a lot of enquiries, which means that people have to call to ask for their case and perhaps not get access to their case handler. It's too bad for the user. That's exactly why we're doing something about it. That's why we have now reorganized the responsibility of the Nav offices, which are the ones who meet the user. We're shifting responsibility for better control of the system. That's why we started the research project through the Research Council to follow the entire Nav reform. But that's also the reason from my department that granted 40 million. kr before the holiday, and there is a proposal in Stortinget to grant 60 million. kr to, just to get the leftovers down. This is also a lot of the solution for the other issues. So, yes, we're doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e174	I thank you for the answer, and I am glad that this is being taken into account. But this has been going on for years, and it has become worse and worse. It is the Workers' Party that has always had the Council of State in this field. There's money in there for this, and there's more people in there. But it doesn't seem to get any better, it actually gets worse. I registered that in the NRK radio on September 3rd, Nav Director Tor Saglie said, among other things. that he recognized the problems around Nav, and not least expressed the Director on the occasion that one might want a simpler and less detailed regulation. One of the problems I face when I am contacted is that those who are users do not understand the legislation. When they contact the Nav offices, many of the case handlers do not understand the legislation either. Then my question is, isn't it time to simplify the legislation? I haven't seen any propositions in Stortinget that simplify this. Do you want to get hold of it, so that users and those who are going to deal with matters understand the legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e183	The rules are now being simplified. From May 1st next year, we're going to combine several of the Nav revenue bases. It will make the legislation much easier. This means that rehabilitating,rehabilitating and time-limited disability benefits – which are three different schemes today – are merged into one scheme called redundancy pay. It is the follow-up to the consensus that has been on the Nav reform in Stortinget. There is still a reply to one of the legitimate critical points of the Riksrevision on the inclusion of just a limited amount of disability. I understand that the representative says that it has become worse and worse, because the remainders have increased. But luckily, I can tell that during August – due to the grips Nav has taken, and the money we have granted – there were two states that finally managed to deal with more issues than those that came in, and in September we experienced for the first time a long decline in the remains of Nav. So it seems to be gripping, but many more grips have to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e190	There will be follow-up questions – first Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e193	During the debate on the throne, the parliamentary head of SV was given a line in connection with the Nav reform, and he replied that there is a point of balance as to whether it should be a success or not. The main questioner addressed several important issues, and we have all received many enquiries related to the Nav reform. It is a reality that since the Nav reform was launched, 784 new annual works have been produced by the Employment and Welfare Act. In addition, the 2007 State budget increased by 100 annual works, just to meet the challenges of reducing the length of proceedings. It is now apparent that the case handlers have better time for each user now than before the reorganisation into Nav. Nevertheless, you can see that the waiting time is going up dramatically. What will the Council of State actually do instead of constantly blaming the process of conversion? What legislation will be simplified in the future, so that Nav staff can understand what is going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e200	It is possible that the representative did not get my first answer. What I said was, what do we do with the remainder? I agree with the representative that this is the core issue here. I told you what we've done so far, and I told you how much money we've given just so that we can get people to work overtime and get extra people to get rid of stays. And as I said, for the first time now in September – after a very long time – the remains have gone down. Getting better time for the user is the core of this. The whole Nav reform is about users getting much better follow-up, as far as the National Audit Office points out has been too bad. This is what we want with the Nav reform. But I have to remind you that the Nav reform is in the year we're going to get up in 260-270 Nav offices. Next year we're going to establish 160, so there's a lot left of the reform – and that reform is going to focus on the user. In addition to the measures I have taken to mention so far, I am going to have monthly meetings with Nav, just to review the follow-up to the objectives we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e210	Martin Engeset – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e213	When the new welfare state, Nav, got the name Nav, it was a picture that this department was supposed to be the very hub of the welfare community. That Nav works is critically important for hundreds of thousands of people. And I can confirm the picture that the representative of Kenneth Svendsen has drawn in relation to all the single requests we get from the desperate people who are not met with respect, who do not receive the offer they are entitled to and who end up in the back of the queue. The funny thing is that no matter what problems the government is faced with, it is due to the fact that the Nav reform is being implemented. At the same time, the government uses this as a reason to explain things that don't work. When will the Government stop pushing Nav ahead of itself and start taking responsibility for the development itself? It's bad that you just view this as a money issue, not a management and management issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e220	If I have to be allowed to say that, it may seem that this line was written before I gave my answer. I have now actually stood here and mentioned the point by point which steps we take to get control of a situation in Nav that we agree is not good enough. But it is not a discharge to say that the Nav reform is under way. So there are 160 Nav offices to be set up next year – to analyse the situation, we can say that we have challenges ahead of us. And then the question is, what do we do with that? It is true that in the proposition put forward by the previous government — which was widely agreed in the Stortinget — conversion costs and migration challenges were estimated. However, in the proposition – presented by the previous government – it was stressed that the amount of ICT costs and conversion costs would be uncertain. That government said the numbers are insecure, so now we get new numbers where we actually see how much it costs to implement a good Nav reform that takes account of the user.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e229	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e232	Nav was created to give people a better and simpler offer, but now there's some alarming news that Nav is out of control. People experience that they are not believed, and that their problems are not taken seriously. Sick, insured and unemployed people have major problems just getting hold of a case handler. The Christian People's Party wants us to succeed in the reform, but we don't think everything will be solved just with money. We believe that organisational action is needed to ensure that the individual is met with respect, knowledge and good service. Last week the Christian People's Party asked for a thorough presentation in the Stortinget, which we expect will happen soon, and something that today's debate shows that we clearly need. What changes will the Council of State make so that people can receive the treatment they require?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e239	Let me first say that it also happened in the old system of popular protection, in the old state of the labour market, or, for that matter, in the social offices, which become part of the local Nav office in the future, that people didn't think they got the answer they wanted. It's not a result of the Nav reform. However, it is clear that the Nav reform challenges the capacity in relation to the fact that we have had delays in proceedings. One of the main thing is to get better time, to give people better services. One example, in addition to the ones we have already mentioned, is that the Nav offices now see that in the states where they organize a proper, common telephone service with professional people who in a way have communication and knowledge as a profession, it works better than in the states where one does not. Because there's also a big difference here. Fortunately, this is the case – and I have confirmed that I have also received many requests from dissatisfied users – that I now get many examples of happy users where the Nav offices have started and have started using qualification measures, for example, helping people who have gone to the social offices, who are now finally taking action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e246	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e249	There have been several newspaper headlines so far in the debate, and one might say that Nav has not worked in good times. And what about when they are going to work in bad times? That's when it'll really be tried if Nav works. This is a warning to the Council of State. The Council of State is responsible. Can the Council assure me that Nav will also work in bad times?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e254	It is a good point that we have now implemented parts of the Nav reform in calm times, especially in relation to the labour market situation – I assume that is what the representative refers to when he says ‘good times’. This is precisely why it is important to get the Nav system in place, also in order to be able to face economic fluctuations in the future. I will be allowed to remind you in this context that this government has made sure to maintain a high level of labour market action, so the activity has been great in Nav. We have had a level of action that has been higher than that which has been common with such low unemployment rates as we have had in recent years, and we are continuing the high level of action. But it's quite right, as the representative points out, it's important to have the Nav system up and running when you get more to do, if there's increasing unemployment. There are also many reasons why the Nav system has to go up, and so we have started a series of measures to achieve this, including: in relation to the points referred to by the Riksrevision. We're going to continue to closely follow up on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e261	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e264	The Minister of Labour may stand still. There are many major tasks waiting for the Minister of Labour, he is one of those who have no reason to fear unemployment, at least not before the forthcoming elections. I hope he shows more power and leadership in handling the notified increase in unemployment than we see in Nav. There are now a lot of reports from small and medium-sized enterprises across the country that they are going to leave their employees and that some of them are also being cancelled. Of course, it creates insecurity in many communities, especially in District Norway. There has been no lack of warnings against government's anti-industrial and anti-business policies. They have come from the Right, they have come from the other bourgeois parties, they have come from business, and they have come from far into the Labour Party's own ranks and from the LO. This has been systematically rejected by the fact that true, business, businesses and workplaces can withstand slightly higher taxes, as Norwegian business is now in decline. It doesn't. Of course, the financial crisis is not the government's responsibility, but one must bear responsibility for not having invested for the future, not investing enough in infrastructure, knowledge and good framework conditions for business. Now we've got new forecasts from the SSB. They show a sharp decline in the investments of enterprises, a negative trend in exports, an almost halve of growth in mainland Norway, and a strong growth in unemployment over the next two years. The government has said that the budget is well adapted to the situation in the economy. This cannot be because the budget is based on entirely different forecasts of developments in the Norwegian economy. My question to the Minister of Labour will be: What recommendations will he, as Minister of Labour, give to the Government in relation to the change in policy when it is seen that unemployment is beginning to rise?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e278	Here there were many strange premises that it might be tempting to get hold of, but I'm going to deal with the question. My recommendation to the Government for the rest will be not to listen to Jan Tore Sanner's advice about now – instead of increasing the activity, which is right – to give tax relief, which is wrong. So we are dealing with several levels of the international crisis affecting Norway. Point one is that there was a crisis in banks compared to borrowing money from other banks. It is then that Norway’s Bank has already put in place a number of measures, but the most visible example was perhaps what happened on Sunday, when the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister presented a package to contribute to liquidity to the banks. It's the current situation, which is important. I have to remind you that in that context, the NHO has said that this was the right measure at the right time, that is to say the exact opposite of what Mr Sanner is suggesting. Then we've been working on a budget and other policies that facilitate a decline in interest rates. Because it's important for people to dry up to invest, to get through their loans, and to get the activity up. In addition, we have the means to move forward towards a situation with less demand, precisely the state budget. NHO's director says the same thing there, that it's a powerful government. He sat in the same TV studio as me yesterday and said so. Then I sat and thought about Sanner, and I thought like that: how in the world can he say what he says, when business says it stings the opposite? Because what are we doing there? Well, we're saying that when the carpenters have little to do with building garages for Sanner or me because we're going to hold back a little bit, it's right that they'll give the carpenters, plumbers and electricians the opportunity to clean up the schools instead, that we're increasing the activity. That is what the budget is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e289	Either the Minister of Labour didn't listen to what I said, or he hasn't got into the challenges he's facing. I wasn't talking about the financial crisis. I was talking about the recession that comes in the wake of the financial crisis. That's the one where the SSB reports are very clear. I do not disagree that it is now important to build roads, and that it is important to increase activity in construction. It has full support of the Right. We believe that more building should be done. But the problem is that when the small and medium-sized enterprises across our country meet a recession, the government's response is to increase the taxes on those companies. It's a medicine that goes in the opposite direction of what social democrats in other countries do. My question is: is it that the Council of State contests the forecasts presented by the SSB, which show that we are getting almost a halve of growth in the economy, that we are getting a decline in exports, and that we are getting an increase in unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e300	New forecasts are now coming almost every day in the light of the rapid changes in the market. My first answer was to Sanner's first question: What would I advise my colleagues in the Government? That's what I said. I am responsible for the labour market in this country, how it works. That is when it comes to dealing with the importance of the international financial crisis for Norway. That's why I want to say it. That is why I will also raise the activity question in the budget – we will ensure that labour market measures and that kind of thing are in place. But the most important thing now is to stimulate the economy so that people keep their jobs, and then we're going to make sure that there are instruments there for those who might lose their jobs and have to change jobs. But it is important now not to maximize crisis. It's important to have a clear strategy with what we do. Then we deal with the financial crisis first, we present the budget, which can contribute to the fall in interest rates, and then we increase the activity of the long-term budget. That's all, the most important thing to make sure that employment doesn't go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e309	There will be follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e312	As late as August 24th in the fall, we were able to read in the VG the articles by the nutritionist Gunvor Eldegard on how things turn out in Norwegian business, combined with attempts to link this up with the government's so-called active industrial policy. To the extent that there are trends in business as a user, this is the increase in unemployment. In Bergen’s Official Journal yesterday we could read Professor Kjell G. Salvanes of the School of Commerce, who believed that SSB bombs with its estimates. He believes that the time off is going to rise to 6-7 pst. by 2010. This is obviously new knowledge for a government that has completely different prospects in its government budget. Does the Council not see that action is required in such a situation, that change is required? Does the Council of State not see that it is pointless to increase the taxes on equity in enterprises when businesses are going to create jobs, and that one should also reduce taxes in order to increase growth in business?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e321	The government budget submitted is based on professional analyses of expected employment trends and demand trends at the time of printing. Then the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, in the context of the debate on the subject of the throne, has stressed that because of the international turmoil, which could lead to less demand for the export industry, we need to deal with that situation in particular. But it's not like there are some dramatic tax incentives for business. I think it's quite imaginative of the representative Hansen to say that, when we now have a very special international situation for the banks. It affects international markets, and it affects how much we should use the budget to ask for roads, railways, school buildings, student shelters and, not least, investment in construction in Bergen, just to get the activity up. But then we feel that the representative Hansen comes with a cut-cut tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e328	Ulf Leirstein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e331	I am recording that the government's representatives on the inside and out breath now for a longer time, since the state budget was presented, says that this state budget is meeting very well in the situation we are in. Well, I strongly doubt that today the governor has called for an interest-rate meeting to be accelerated precisely because of the state budget that was presented. I guess there's a whole other reason for that interest rate meeting. With regard to the area for which the Council of State is responsible, I note that the forecasts in the State budget and the premises for the State budget are a relatively weak increase in unemployment. While what is reported from industry, from professional organisations, from the SSB and others, shows a significantly higher increase in unemployment next year than the government has estimated in its government budget. Can the Council of State continue to support the estimates contained in the State budget? These are important premises for the entire state budget as it has been drawn up and which the Storting will now deal with. Can the Council of State continue to account for the low rate of unemployment that is contained in the forecasts of the State budget submitted by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e340	I agree that it was the best professional assessments that could be taken into account at the time when the state budget was completed. Then the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, I and others have stressed that the developments that have followed in the world economy, not only in the last few weeks, but in fact also in the last few days, have made the uncertainty that we stressed in the state budget even greater. This means that the forecasts for growth can be changed and that employment forecasts can be changed. For this reason, we are now taking daily action to address that situation by clearing up financial markets, by laying the foundations for a lower level of interest rates and by facilitating an active industrial policy, so that competitive business actually has the opportunity to meet the major challenges on the international market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e347	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e350	If the President allows me, I will ask the Minister of Agriculture the question of follow-up. Yesterday, Bergen's magazine wrote: "Home to Mother in Crisis". They showed that there was a link between moving patterns and economic growth, and that the towns could become winners in the financial crisis. It has long been our investment drought in Norwegian agriculture. At the same time, there is a dramatic decline in jobs in construction. This is a possibility for Norwegian agriculture. There may be a win-win situation with rises for Norwegian agriculture and with a damp decline for construction. So my question is: will the Minister of Agriculture seize this opportunity to improve the financing possibilities for agriculture through, for example: access to risk capital, better depreciation arrangements, etc.? And if the Minister of Agriculture wants to seize this opportunity, how will he actually do it? Because now there are possibilities. I hope the answer is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e360	It is also true that one must stress in this context that one does not want a situation in construction where one encounters the problems that are now being predicted. However, it is right that the representative now stresses that change in growth and change in economic development may affect the potential for rural development. We see that in high growth periods, relocation from the districts is increasing. In the case of agricultural investment vehicles, they have been agreed under the Agreement on Agriculture. One has a certain level there. The parties to the agricultural agreement have given priority to income development, and therefore there has been no increase in investment funds in the last year. We have to get back to this in connection with the agricultural agreement. In the case of depreciation instruments and such, changes have been introduced in the state budget that I believe will work positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e369	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e372	I would like the Minister of Labour back. For me, it's not like I'm able to enjoy worse times for people because if it's good times for the cows. Something interesting happened in this questioning. The Minister of Labour could also say, even from the Spokesman's chair, that with the unemployment figures in the budget, which are to be entered at the time when the budget was created, it is likely to underestimate the situation. In particular, some of the same thing is said by the Prime Minister and many others, that it is likely to go against worse times. It is such that the Government has budgeted with an average unemployment rate for the next year of 2 3⁄4 pst. This year it will be on average at 2 1⁄2 pst. It's probably a careful adjustment to what we can see now. The Financial Committee shall enter into different consultations this week and this is a crucial premise. How fast, and when can the Storting expect an orientation on new assumptions or belief that the figures may be different?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e381	Firstly, I must be allowed to say that I think that the representative Sponheim has acted constructively in the situation in which we are, in relation to very important elements of this challenging situation, which is about psychology, which is about not making the situation worse than it is, and which is in a way about looking for action, not after play. I'd like to praise you for that. In this context, I may not have said that I am now sure that the estimates are undervalued, but I have underlined the same thing that the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have done, that the uncertainty is actually even greater now than it was the day we presented the State budget, and especially in relation to the day when the State budget was completed. When new estimates and forecasts, such as: based on growth estimates, presented, it is most appropriate to say what it is, that they are based on the analysis of the Ministry of Finance, which sums up the SSB and other professional environments, and it will be up to the Minister of Finance to provide the new estimates to the extent that the Committee of Finance requests it during its consultation process. But it is important to take over precisely that instability and the unforeseeableness that may now be the most important thing to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e390	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e393	I would like to continue the dialogue with the Minister of Labour and Inclusion on developments in the labour market. We all want there to be high employment and low unemployment. Most of us also agree that we should have a special focus on vulnerable groups in the labour market. The measures for which the State is directly responsible should specifically address those with the highest risk of being excluded from the ordinary labour market. The incredibly good labour market we have had lately has also had a positive effect for at least some of the groups that are normally difficult to get into work. I'm thinking, for example. on non-Western immigrants, where the unemployment rate has fallen at the same time as the registered unemployment rate has decreased. The government has now taken on board an estimate of the unemployment that several expert communities consider to be far too optimistic. We have hope that the Government is right, but I and the Christian People's Party fear that a possible rise in unemployment will go hardest beyond groups that we are concerned about, such as. people who need special organisation at work, people who have physical and mental disabilities. Is there a risk that these vulnerable groups may face increasing challenges in a weaker labour market? And will there then be a need to strengthen labour market efforts for these groups beyond what is now planned for next year? Does the Government have a preparedness and a strategy for these groups if the government estimates are wrong and it does not work as the Government had planned?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e404	Let me first underline one thing that I hope is agreed on, and that is that the estimates underlying the state budget are based on the best professional analysis that it was possible to do at the time of the analysis. It's not like we're talking about how much we're going to spend next year on growth estimates. It's a professional assessment. Then reality in the world has changed. It is then important to be aware that it is changing, and not to suggest that the Government has somehow blocked estimates at the time the estimates were made. It's actually the same professionals we base our analyses on, just to underline it. Then to the weakest in the labour market. Yeah, there's a reason to have a focus where the representative Woie Duesund has his focus. It is clear that some of the reasons why we have succeeded in the areas that the representative now mentioned are precisely that there has been a high demand for labour in the market. And yes, then we have to have a special readiness to make sure that the weakest do not get out of work, and that more people get the opportunity to get into the world of work. Then it's important to remember that the starting point per. Now – as Finn Bergesen in the NHO pointed out yesterday – there is, in fact, a high demand for labour. So there's been a shortage of labour. That's the starting point. When the economy cools down, we have to put instruments in line with that, and we do that through the budget of the year. Let me mention one measure: time-limited wage subsidies, which I know have been used by people who have had drug problems in the past. It can also be used by people who, for entirely different reasons, may be partly in work and partly in disability. The type of instruments we are now stepping up, because we are engaged in the Nav reform, which I have been dealing with in the past, and now we are reversing the use of instruments. It's going to fit better in the future. But the most important thing at that point is that those schemes are largely financed by labour market measures, and I hope that there is agreement in the UK that the situation should change a lot, it is possible to re-examine the level of labour market measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e413	I thank you for your answer. I want to challenge the Council of State to become even more concrete in terms of measures to help people with disabilities qualify for, find and be able to do normal work. According to the surveys carried out by the Statistical Centre, the proportion of people with disabilities in jobs has been remarkably stable, approx. 45 pst., and largely unaffected by the good business cycle, even though the market has cried for labour. It seems like the Council of State rates on the status quo to next year. The various measures have been kept to an absolute minimum and do not appear to be very offensive. Isn't the Council of State worried about this particular group losing again, and what will he do to prevent it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e422	First, I have to say that the claim that measures are kept to an absolute minimum is completely unreasonable. In terms of unemployment, we have never been at such a high level of action as we are doing now. I am concerned that we will also have a high level of action in the future, and if necessary higher if the situation so warrants. That's why I mentioned it with the content of the Nav reform that we're now implementing. The fact that we combine instruments makes it possible for disabled people also to have access to more tools than they had before, because we don't divide people so much into groups. But I'll be allowed to point to another thing that's important for the topic on which the representative is concerned, and it's about the agreement on inclusive working life, because there were three main objectives. One was to bring down sick leave. Something's gone down. The other one was getting an increase in your retirement age, so that people are more at work. There are actually good results. The third objective was to contribute to more disadvantaged people entering the labour market. That's the point where there's the worst results. That's exactly why it becomes very important in the follow-up to the IA agreement, which we're now in the process of doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e429	There will be follow-up questions – first Solveig Kopperstad Bratseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e432	The Qualification Programme is an important instrument for transferring long-term beneficiaries of social assistance from inactivity to activity and work. The Christian People's Party hopes that the escalation it has set up for next year will actually be implemented, and not least that the programme for each individual will be filled with content that increases their chances of getting into permanent work in the ordinary labour market. Does the Council of State think that a weaker labour market development in the coming years could have consequences for the implementation of the reform? I am thinking in particular of the challenge of conveying people from completed programmes into ordinary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e440	I fully agree with the representative that the qualification programme is one of the things that really is the Nav reform, because it means that you should start working in a completely new way, keep users in focus and make sure that the actions are adapted to those users who will have the measures. So they can vary from user to user. So in those Nav offices where things are starting to go well – there are also examples – it's just the qualification program that triggers the whole idea behind Nav, which has been a broad political consensus: one door, the user in the center. At the end of September more than 1,800 persons are on qualification programmes. That's 1,800 more than it was at the beginning of the year. Experience from the offices that are now implementing the qualification programmes – it is only the established Nav offices – is precisely the representative who is asking for it, a greater focus on the user. And yes, I think it'll be even more important in the future when you see the outcome of the qualification programme, to have enough space for action to also get these people into the qualification programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e447	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e450	The NRK news today could tell that every ten students feel the bully of their teacher. We're familiar with students bullying each other, but so many students feel bullied by the teacher, I think I'm pretty serious. The number of young workers is increasing sharply, and has been doing so for several years. We are very high in relation to most other European countries. More than half of these are dissatisfaction due to severe mental disorders. The roadmap for mental health is coming to an end, and we know that as unemployment increases, the number of unemployed persons is also increasing. What action does the Council of State intend to take in the case of young people who are suffering from mental illness, in order to give them an opportunity on the labour market rather than to go on disability?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e457	Part of the answer to this is the new coordination of actions now coming, which will make it easier to focus on the user and ensure that a given range of services is adapted also for people with mental illness as the starting point for problems in the labour market. Then I have to say that I am very happy that there is a post from the Progress Party with that focus, because the very consideration of the conditions in the labour market is much of the driving force of this government, which we often find that the Progress Party is in fact disagreeable. When we take action against social dumping, when we take action and remove a proposal that was here, to make it easier to hire people temporarily, and when we strengthen the Working Environment Act, we do so precisely on the basis of the question of the representative, Mr Kjenaas Kjos, that we should have a safe working life with which both a person can live and live. The main focus must be on the fact that working life does not exclude people, does not create mental problems. The offer shall be there for those who still need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e464	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e467	As the Newspaper struck at the change of government, the government of Stoltenberg came to the table. Unemployment fell sharply, and economic growth was good. Now progress is turning around, and one is facing tougher times. Then you don't have to be a fortune-teller to know that the most vulnerable people in the labour market are those with the worst basic skills, with the lowest education and with difficulty in reading and writing. In good times, it makes sense to use the increased resources to prepare for bad times. The government has not. It has not used the sunny days to seal the holes in the ceiling. For example, government parties have not been willing to support the Right’s proposal for a significant commitment to reading and writing training for adults in the workplace. Why has the Government not been committed to preparing this group at a worse time in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e474	It's amazing to hear the description of what this government has prioritised. In fact, investing in skills for the weakest in the labour market has just been part of what this government has lifted. Let me, for example. mention Norwegian training for the immigrant population. Strengthened Norwegian training, both in reception and in the municipalities where they live, is a good example that is just about language, which the representative Höie was now concerned about. We've used this period to just prepare that there's going to be worse times after good. We already know that. That's why we're upgrading the public sector. It is very good that we in Norway have a public sector, which the Right believes is too large, but which is about half the national budget, and thus does not face the same challenges as the competitive sector. Then we have ensured the functioning of the competitive sector, and we have also provided measures on the training side for those who need both Norwegian training and other training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e481	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e484	I have a question for the Minister of Research. It is that, regardless of the times in society, nothing is more important for a robust and viable society than that we focus on research. This government has had great ambitions, written down in the Soria Moria Declaration, but in practical politics it has become so that those engaged in research have hardly got over the shock that the Government has not done what it should do to bring us back to the starting point, before the rest cutting. Everyone who's been with us knows that this has left deep wounds to those who work with research. After that, the government in the crucial area begins in order to be able to research, namely the recruitment of researchers, so that you have many well-qualified people. The County Council first postponed the government's announced announcement of research recruitment, then, shortly afterwards, it was cancelled, and then we heard that it was in the government budget that we were to know what it was going to be like. In the state budget, we can read that now we're going to get 166 scholarship holders in the years that come. It is less than half of the figure in the research report that was unanimously adopted in the Stortingen in 2005, and it is an infinite amount longer than the figure that the Government itself requested in the investigation that came from NIFU STEP, where it was said that it needed 520 every year until 2016 to meet the research goal. It's very difficult to perceive this in any other way than that the government needs to be in charge of real research priorities, but of course she's doing her best to get out of it in a good way. The result of this is that in another area, the government creates uncertainty as to whether it has the will and strength to invest in research. My question is: When will the Minister of Research and the Government show that research, as everyone involved in it, wants to be prioritised, by providing adequate strength and sufficient numbers of people to be recruited for research? When are we going to get that answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e497	This is a matter that is under continuous work. I have to say that the state budget proposal now presented provides a significant boost to research. One thing is scholarship positions, where the representative Dørum does not mention that the total number is over 200 – because we also facilitate post doc positions. He also doesn't mention that we've managed to increase the rate per. scholarship position significantly compared to the situation today, which I am absolutely sure will be a matter that is well received in the institutions. So the ability to research and the ability to bet on research is about more things than the number of scholarship holders. I have announced that in the state budget we will get a start on the idea of recruiting fellows. I've submitted that. I have also announced that we will receive a follow-up of both thinking about scholarship holders and about equipment, which is a very important part of the follow-up to the research ambitions, and also a strengthening of the Research Fund, with some new grips. All of this is now in the state budget as a proposal. I think I dare say that this proposal is the most significant promise that has been made in many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e504	I find that the Council of State did not answer the question I asked. My question was, When are we going to get clear signals about recruitment? I'm aware that the number is 200, but I stick to the scholarship holders. The left has always had post doc. posts and other posts in its budgets. The Council of State would like to study the budget of the Left. Then you can see how, within responsible budget frameworks, you can both put aside money for equipment, put aside money for fellows, don't fool around with the basic funding, provide money for nutrient research, correct tax FUNN, etc. What makes the Council of State respond more remarkable is that the Council of State answers come at the same time as an internal debate is held in the SV where central debate actors believe that we spend too much money on research in Norway. It's possible to understand it if you're actually on a retreat, away from prioritizing research. My questions to the Council of State are: Can the Council of State confirm that the debate that is taking place in the SV should not be taken seriously, so that we should believe that the objectives of the research continue to be pursued? And will the Council of State confirm that research is top priority for the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e512	I have noticed that Odd Einar Dørum has obviously reacted to the fact that there are internal debates in SV. I expect this to happen both in the Left and in the other parties, too, but what is absolutely certain is that there is a big difference in the fact that opinions are exchanged internally in a party, and on the outside side of the party. I can confirm here and now that as Minister of Research and as representative of the Party SV, I am betting on research. It has to do more research, and not less. I just want to confirm that, and it has been provided for in the State budget – not only through the budget of the Ministry of Knowledge, but also through the allocation of the budget of other departments, including the maintenance of the TaxFUNN scheme and the Närings-Phd scheme, which are important incentives for industry to participate in research. I am delighted to meet the representative of Dørum in debate on this when we discuss the budget. Of course, I have also invested myself in the budgets of both the Left and the other parties and know well what I have to deal with. I am not afraid to meet the challenges that lie there, with the proposals contained in the Government's proposals for the research budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e519	There will be follow-up questions – first Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e522	I think the Council of State is right that there may be some confusing debates in most parties. Therefore, it is important that the leaders are clear and firm on what is the line – not least then it is necessary to give the leaders the opportunity to be clear and firm on the right line! I understand that this debate is a lot about nutrient research and whether it is the most sensible and profitable thing we can do. That's it! There are figures showing that efforts in industrial research have up to 50 pst. annual return. The special thing is that most of it falls on society outside the businesses or industries, because the knowledge comes into use at a time when businesses may not be anymore, or others are catching it up. That's why the most important thing we can do is to invest in nutrient research if we want good times to come. And especially when the uncertainty is as great as the Minister of Labour expressed earlier today, and I agree, the only thing that is certain is new knowledge. We're going to need that to meet uncertainty. Therefore, efforts in industrial research are so important, and we must stand by that. Does the Council agree with everything I have said now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e531	I noticed in particular the first thing that the representative Sponheim said, which I very much agree with, namely that both the Left and the SV very well tolerate internal, fundamental debates on matters and things that there may be shared opinions about, but that what is important is what is said by those who have the top responsibility in political management. I therefore stress that my position on research as such, and also on research in industry, is that it needs to be strengthened. That's what I'm working for. That's my goal. Then I fully agree with the other thing that has been said. I can inform you that yesterday, at the latest, I opened a new innovation centre, Microsoft has come here, to an environment developed by NTNU in Trondheim – FAST – which is an important search engine in the field of ICT. I am very pleased that we have such good competence that we can attract companies like Microsoft here, to Norway. It promises good for the cooperation between universities and business, and there is a trend I support very strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e538	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e541	Norway received an EEA judgment in 2003 because of the designation of research positions for women, because the EEA focuses on knowledge and not on gender. We know that Norway will need 5,500 recruitment positions for the UH sector by 2015, and in addition, there will be a need for 2,500 due to generation change. At No to the EU Women’s Conference last weekend, the Council of State stated that she would designate 15 p.m. of the proposed scholarship positions in 2009 for women. The government has proposed only 201 recruitment posts in the 2009 budget, while the number should have been, as we have heard before, at least three times as high to meet the need we have. The question to the Council of State will then be: Should the Government not concentrate on getting sufficient recruitment positions and sketching out a career opportunity for our researchers, rather than demonstrating its EU resistance by pushing EEA legislation to the limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e552	I have to say I'm very pleased with that question. If we wait until we have enough measurement numbers in all areas before we do anything about the injustice that lies in the gender balance, I think we have to wait a very long time. That's why it's important for me at a time when we obviously need recruitment positions, also to recognise that we need women for such positions, and that we get women into the top positions we have, within our university and higher education systems. That is what this scheme aims at. I am not going to do anything that violates the judgment that has been passed, but I am going to do what I can to put myself close to it, so that we can get something out of the possibility of getting women through ear-marked positions. Then there will be temporary jobs in the first round, but I acknowledge that it is better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e557	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e560	I am not in doubt that the Government in its own eyes believes that this budget is the most significant boost for research and higher education for many years. It's very close to the fact that the government in this budget has one profile, and that's correcting its own cuts. There is no doubt that in higher education and research there is going to be a call for rest after this Government in terms of research and higher education. While the Bondevik II government used 90 pst. of the increased space for action in the economy to invest for future, including large investment in research and higher education, this Government uses 15 pst. of the increased space for action to invest for the future. While Kristin Halvorsen spoke in the financial speech about how good it is to have a percentage target to reach on other sectors of the budget, and how it made the percentages are about to be met, the research page talks about how difficult it is that you have a percentage target to reach, and how difficult it is to meet the state's share of 1 pst. of GDP for research by 2010. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e571	We have come a long step closer to the goal we have in this state budget. I see the representative's challenge, and I see how we can assess differently the goals we set within the different sectors. That is why I have announced in the communication on research that comes as a follow-up to the research effort in this State budget, among other things. an assessment of how we measure research efforts. That doesn't mean we're leaving the goal, but that means that we're going to make our research efforts visible in several ways, because I'm absolutely convinced that there's a lot of ways to view this, and that we can even more clearly get the effort that's actually being done. We need that discussion just to be able to shed light and have a slightly wider and holistic approach to the research we are actually doing. But the target remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e576	In order to achieve good research, good funding for higher education and research is also needed. I think we can sum up the red-green bet in this area as a monopoly game. First card: You land on the red-green state budget and pull 1 pst. Go ten steps back and rest this year! Second step is the next state budget card: draw a chance card, and you still have to rest. So the third and the next chance card: you're getting a little bit ahead of you and you're getting fellows. So the map of the year: Chance – yeah! – you move to the start, but do not receive extra money when you pass. Is the Council satisfied that, after a red-green regime in this period, we are back to the beginning – or to the starting point when they took over? Is it not a matter of concern that, with the crisis we are now seeing, we have not received the commitment and promise in higher education and research that Norway really needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e584	At least I can assure the representative and everyone else that our commitment to research and higher education is in no way a monopoly game. It is an important and necessary political process. It is about giving universities and colleges a basic allocation that gives them good opportunities to carry out education and research, and, in addition, a research budget with a focus on strengthening research funds, both nationally and regionally. Of course, I will come back to this when we discuss the state budget. In fact, I think we've come a long way with the bet we have now. I also look at the results that it's been a long time since it was produced so many doctoral students. We are well placed to publish statistics, and we have a much better throughflow of students in our higher education institutions. That's the kind of thing that I think is important to come up with when we're going to measure the effort. Then you can harp – as the representative does – on the features that have been or have not been done, but at least I want to work on getting an ever better quality and a better content in both education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e591	So the oral questioning process is over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e597	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away. At the request of the Minister for Oil and Energy, this question is moved and answered in response to question 17, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 4, 5 and 6 from Arne Sortevik, Borghild Tenden and Robert Eriksson, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question No 8, by Mr Per Roar Bredvold, to the Minister of Defence, lapses because the questioner is not present. Questions 14 and 15 from the representatives of Gunnar Kvassheim and Torbjørn Hansen, respectively, to the Minister of Food and Trade, were moved and answered to question 2In addition, question 13 from the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal to the Minister of Culture and the Church, was moved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e620	‘The evening item brought a few weeks ago well-documented reports on the results of an individual taxpayer’s disastrous meeting with the discretionary equation of the tax authorities and what appears as the subsequent lack of legal certainty in the equation topics. What will the Council of State do to ensure that all taxpayers are treated in a way that ensures their legal certainty in the process of equality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e632	Equation management is a typical mass management area where a large number of decisions are taken within a relatively short period of time. Unfortunately, some mistakes may be made during this work. That is, of course, regrettable, not least because mistakes made by the equality authorities can have a significant financial impact on the individual taxpayer. If taxpayers feel that they are being misjudged, it is important that their legal certainty is adequately safeguarded. In general, I believe that the legal certainty of taxpayers is well maintained, but in some areas there has been room for improvement. Tax collectors who detect errors may complain about the equation. In the past, it was possible that the complaint was handled by the same case handler who took the original decision on the equation. The main reason for this was that the Equations Offices in the individual sites were small units with few case handlers. This has been amended by the reorganisation of the tax rate, which was initiated on 1 January of this year. The tax base is now organised with larger and more professional units. I therefore assume that the procedure, that the case is dealt with by a new case handler at any stage, now works well. Furthermore, the legal certainty of taxpayers is better ensured now than in the past by increasing specialisation in the tax rate. In the reorganisation process, the subjects of the equation and of the reconciliation were replaced by five subjects of the tax complaint. The competence of the members of the tax complaints has been called for. Two thirds of its members shall have formal education in the fields of accounting, economics or law and professional experience covering at least one of these areas. Consequently, a taxpayer who disagrees with the decision of the tax office would be able to have his case reviewed by a well-qualified appeal body. A group of taxpayers that I think is particularly important to help are the so-called disadvantaged taxpayers. These are taxpayers who, for a shorter or longer period of time, are unable to attend to their own interests with the authorities of the equation and who are therefore unable to benefit from the legal certainty guarantees contained in the complaint mechanism. The reasons why taxpayers cannot care for their interests can be personal relationships, mental or social problems, illness or death in the family or other things. Overall, there is a limited group of taxpayers who fall into this category, but the consequences for individuals may still be considerable. Several measures are now being taken to improve the situation of the disadvantaged tax payers. The Directorate-General for Taxation works, inter alia: amending the guidelines on access to change the equation after the deadline for appeals has expired, in order to make it more possible to address change cases where the taxpayer’s failure to provide information is due to a difficult situation in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e647	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the circumstances have made the Minister of Finance focus on this. I would like to follow up on a question about the competence of the subjects of the equation, on which the Minister of Finance was involved. It is true that there are now stronger technical requirements for parts of the new equation topics, but these kinds of issues that have been described in the press are complex issues of discretion. There are long-term treatments, and there are large quantities of documents to go into. Does the Minister of Finance feel sure that even though the names are now put together by people with better skills, they have enough capacity and time to spend on this? Remunerations are relatively limited, and I would think that the effort could also be relatively limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e656	As I pointed out in my answer, many steps have been taken, not least in the reorganization of work on taxation and equation in Norway, also to reinforce the legal certainty of the individual taxpayer. This conversion, that the subject of the equation and the subject of the settlement are replaced by five subjects of the tax complaint, means that there is a possibility of a greater specialisation, which the fleet is also involved in. I'm going to monitor carefully whether this system is now working properly, because the issues that the fleet is addressing are important. It is not only about the competence that we are now demanding that these new tax students have and how they should be put together, but also about the fact that the members there have the time and the opportunity to address the issues involved. I believe that the sum of the grips that have been made on the subject of equality, the subject of comparison and these new tax topics, and that we are confident that there are new case handlers who look at complaints coming in, along with increased specialisation, are many steps forward in relation to the legal certainty of the individual taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e663	In conclusion, this case has been re-updated by the fact that the evening post today – they have done so much in the past – brings a report that Skatt Øst is looking at old faults. It might seem pretty good at first, that it's good to review this again, and so on. But what is the background to this particular case is that here has a tax payer worn out over very many years to get a response to the equation and the equation study treatments. Then I agree with the Minister of Finance that we cannot build anything in general on some statements, but we may suspect that this is the case. What I then think is a bit serious is that it is going to be so heavy a newspaper look-up before you start looking at individual matters. It doesn't seem reliable to me, because it must mean that before, without it being written in the newspapers, you have assessed it so that you wouldn't take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e668	I agree that legal certainty cannot be linked to whether or not individuals succeed in getting attention to their case in the press. However, when there are issues that become public, they have to be a starting point for me and the tax rate to go through them and see if legal certainty is properly ensured. I believe that we have now made a lot of efforts to ensure legal certainty in the future, so that we can reduce the risk of these kinds of examples. What is important now in the further consideration of this specific case is whether or not opening is also given to go beyond 10 years back in time. I understand that some of these conditions may be longer in time than ten years. There is a question that the Tax Directorate has to decide on, and what is being assessed is whether the change matter has been raised before the deadline. If it is, there is also an opportunity to go back more in time than the ten years, which is now for discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e678	Before I ask the question, I would like to say that there are sometimes events between the deadline we have to submit questions to the Council of State and the time of the answer. So if the Minister of Finance thinks I'm not coming along at all, that's the background for the question to come. ‘More smaller savings banks around the country have to pay a high price to borrow money in the ordinary market in the current situation, which can in the long run create a difficult situation for banks and local businesses. These are banks which, by virtue of the Norwegian Bank’s legislation on collateralisation in the case of loans to the central bank, are not able to borrow at the Bank of Norway. Will the Council of State address with Norway’s Bank the possibility of amending the legislation in order to improve the access to finance for smaller savings banks?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e687	I am aware that the representative Hans Olav Syversen is a great representative who follows closely. I am also aware of the deadlines for reporting questions to Stortingen's Question Time. As the representative of the Syversen is aware, this matter has already been resolved. Among the measures presented to move in the financial markets in Norway and to help solve the liquidity problem that exists, the representative also asks that this requirement be set at a limit of 300 million. kr is deleted. It's been very well received by the smaller banks. They signal that they feel that they have been heard and taken care of with the change that has now come, also through the possibility of a longer duration of F-loans. So I think the combination of this now hits the little banks well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e694	I'm very pleased with the answer. We were looking for some of this when we asked this question. In some local settings, access to the loan was approximately suspended for a certain period before this measure came into effect. So I have basically just one follow-up question, and I want to stress that we are very satisfied with what has happened in the meantime. Now lifting this minimum level of collateral, is there a situational measure or is there a measure that is intended to be such in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e703	It is a measure that is valid until further notice. But now there's a lot of turbulence, and it's important to make these markets work. It is of great importance, not only for small banks’ operations, but also – and in particular – for their customers’ activities. Then we may need to reconsider the justification for such a restriction – if it is present – in the future. But it's going to be raised per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e708	Question 3 will be dealt with later. Now we go to the 14 and the 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e714	‘In focus at NRK on 7 October, it appeared that State power has been set up to enter into an agreement on intensified nuclear cooperation with the company Thor Energy. In the programme, Statkraft’s project manager confirms that ‘the aim is to build a power plant producing electricity’. Is the Council of State familiar with the Government's ambition to contribute to the construction of nuclear power stations in Norway and is the Council of State comfortable with this ambition?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e721	The Ministry has submitted to Statkraft the claims made in NRK Focus on 7 October, and the company has written to us in a letter dated 13 October that the claims made in Focus that Statekraft has an agenda for the construction of thorium power plants in Norway and that the group is actively working to obtain support for this are not correct and do not represent the group’s view. This is also evident from the press release from Statkraft. State power has further explained in its letter to us that in the spring of 2007, the group set up a project to increase knowledge and assess the potential of thorium. This was due to an increased public debate on thorium, the world’s largest presence of thorium in Telemark, and new status reports on technological developments related to thorium’s potential as a fuel in nuclear reactors. The aim of the project has been to increase knowledge of thorium as a source of energy. Statkraft has never had an explicit goal of building thorium power plants producing electricity, as claimed in the Focus Programme. However, state power, as the largest power player in Norway, has seen it as natural to follow up the Thorium Committee's conclusion in the May 2008 report that it is desirable to further increase knowledge of thorium. Based on international developments in nuclear power, where thorium is strongly challenged by new uranium-based solutions, and the results of the project's work so far, Statkraft has already decided to transfer the thorium project to a more general technology monitoring activity in the group. As a natural consequence, the assessments of any purchase of a stake in Thor Energy have also been concluded. I would like to stress that the energy policy of the Government is firm, which means that there are no plans to allow the construction of nuclear power plants in Norway. Instead, the government, with which the representative is well-known, will give priority to the development of renewable energy, such as bioenergy, wind and sea mills.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e732	I am very pleased that the Government determines its position on nuclear power plants. It divides the left completely. I think it is positive that this programme has contributed to clarifying the involvement of Statkraft in this project, for Statkraft’s project leader stated in the programme that he had an agenda for building nuclear power plants in Norway. The fact that one takes the consequence that State force here has acted in a way that is unclear and gives different signals is positive. State power has been used as a resource in lobbying to influence government attitudes towards nuclear power plants, and it is important to clean this up. Now it's like Statoil has gone in by 5 pst. ownership interest in Thor Energy and also lent labour to this company. The intention seems to be to play on actors such as Statkraft and Statoil to give the project seriousness. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs have any views on this commitment to Statoil?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e741	I just want to stress that the department that owns maritime relations with the government of State power and the group management. I have received a statement from the Head of State's Group, stating that the claims made in Focus are not correct. I can also inform you that it is also clear from this statement that Statkraft immediately initiated measures to improve the communication procedures and ensure consistency between the company's position and the perception created in the public space. So I just repeat as much as I can: there is neither on the part of the Government nor on the part of Statkraft at the board and the group management any plans to allow the construction of nuclear power plants in Norway. When it comes to the issue of Thor Energy in relation to Statkraft, any purchase of a holding there, which Statekraft assessed at some point, becomes nothing of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e750	It's positive that State power doesn't go into the owner's side, but that's what Statoil has done, and I think it's going to be used by the company in the same way that you've tried to use State Power's involvement. Now it's not about claims made in Focus, but the quote from Statkraft's own project manager, which was quite clear on the ambition he had to build a nuclear power plant. Now there's a situation where the Thorium Committee's position has been at the hearing, and the Government is going to present its view. Can we expect the Government to be equally clear in the conclusion that nuclear power is not a natural part of Norwegian energy policy, as the Council of State has been here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e759	Yes, I can only repeat as strongly as I can, that the Government has no plans to change policy in this area. I can also agree with the representative that what was set out in the Focus Programme should not be so. It has also been clearly informed by the board and the group management, and we fully agree that there are no plans for a nuclear power plant in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e769	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The State budget is created through a long-term process. In this year's budget, there are tax incentives that weaken the equity of Norwegian enterprises and make generational shifts more difficult. The last few weeks have shown that business is facing far greater challenges and weaknesses related to the spread of the financial crisis. Does the Council of State see that the framework conditions of business are under greater pressure than expected as a result of the crisis and can the Government make short-term changes that strengthen competitiveness?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e778	When the government put together to prepare the budget for next year, there was already evidence that the Norwegian economy had passed the cyclical peak, and developments in the international financial markets had made the economic outlook more uncertain for Norway. So it's true that there's also been big changes after that. The government has submitted a budget that balances two considerations. As the Minister of Finance has stated, it will help to ensure employment, for example: in the case of a large-scale road and rail investment. We propose to launch a massive expansion of various public building projects. As you know, we propose to establish a separate new interest compensation scheme for upgrading schools and swimming pools. At the same time, this budget will also allow for interest-rate reductions if the Storting adopts the budget submitted by the Government. I am confident that there is uncertainty about the crisis in the financial markets. The financial turmoil has also spread to the Norwegian interest, currency and share markets, as is well known. I also recognize that there are a number of people who, in these days, wear lumps in their stomachs to see if they can keep their job, and who are worried about them, for example. manages to pay their mortgages. That being said, there is no doubt that Norway is better equipped than many other countries to face any international setback. We have a resilient economy, we have a significant room for action, and our banks are solid. We also have good and coherent regulation of the entire financial sector, and we have a competent supervision that closely monitors the situation. The challenges facing Norwegian banks – and I know that the representative is well aware of this – are not linked to soundness, but to difficulties in obtaining funding as a result of the international financial turmoil. It is important that we have a common understanding of the challenges we face. Recently, therefore, the Government held a meeting with representatives of all parties on the Grand Duchy, where both the situation and possible measures were discussed. On Sunday, as is known, the Government announced new measures to improve banks’ access to capital and to contribute to financial market peace. It happened through new government bonds of up to NOK 350 billion, where the government gives banks collateral, so they can get new long-term loans. This is something that has been asked not least from business. As you know, Norway’s Bank also provides a fixed-rate loan of two years’ duration, primarily directed at small banks. It was also important in a district context: Put the whole country into action! In addition, the requirements for the provision of collateral by banks for loans to the central bank are facilitated. Through these measures, we believe that we have addressed the immediate situation. Then it will be very important in the near future – and it does, of course, the Government and all those responsible – to monitor the situation in the real economy. The impact of the financial crisis on the Norwegian economy will depend on its duration and, in particular, on the export-oriented part of the industry. Today, there is no basis for proposing any changes, as we see it, in relation to the government budget submitted by the government. If this situation were to change and the Government believes there is a need to do something about it, we'll probably take it up with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e795	I would like to thank you for your answer, even though it was a major issue of the financial crisis. What we're looking for is a follow-up to the real situation in business and in relation to employment, which is obviously in quite strong motion, if we're going to interpret forecasts from the Statistical Central Bureau correctly. In particular, it is bad in the construction industry. It's true, as the Council of State says, that there has been some increase in investment on construction and on the road. But I still want to describe the investor in terms of construction, as relatively moderate. In my own home country, odontology has been under way and Gulating law, which has been waiting for many years, and which is really just a follow-up to things that have been exposed for a long time. At the same time, we know that there are large projects that can be started immediately, for example. higher education, which is much larger than the two projects combined, and where the Government has pointed to 2010. This is investment which is increasing to an extent as the years go by, and it takes a long time to bring about its impact. Will it not be natural now to accelerate e.g. the investments in higher education and similar projects and set them in motion in 2009 because the situation is now worse than predicted when the budget was presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e802	When I spent a lot of time in my response to the financial turmoil, it was also, as the representative is well-known, because the business community has sent very clear messages that it was not least about to stop in construction, and that one had to get the wheels going again. We believe that all the steps that the government has now taken, through the budget, through what happened on Sunday, and that there is an interesting meeting about interest rates a little later today, will be important contributions for individuals in our country, but not least for the business community, and it is, of course, individuals who work there. I believe that through this budget, we have put up a great deal of effort in terms of construction, and that is very important: in public construction, where what we do in Bergen is important and has not been implemented in the past, but we are also doing more than this, and in the transport sector, not least both road and rail, on which there is a huge commitment also for next year. The sum of this means we're responding to many of the challenges we're facing right now, and then we're following the situation from day to day.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e809	That's when the economic cycle turns around, you see how good business policy has been. When we adopted the action rule in 2000, the money was to go to growth-enhancing measures such as investment in knowledge and investment in the way and to growth-enhancing tax relief. It carried out the Bondevik II government quite systematically, and 90 pst. action spaces were used for the kind of purposes that generate growth in the economy, create activity in the business world, and that underpin the welfare of the future. Then the Stoltenberg II government has made completely different priorities. Priority has been given to a wide range of public expenditure items, but aside from this long-term perspective and only used 10–15 pst. of the space for action from the rule of action on growth promotion such as knowledge, road and tax relief. Does not the Council of State now see that this has been a short-term strategy, and that business could have been much better equipped for the cyclical change that is coming now, if the Government had thought more long-term in its priority policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e816	I believe that the Government has thought very long-term both around the situation of industry, the labour market and also in relation to individuals in this country. That's why we've submitted a budget with a very good distribution profile for next year as well. That is why we have a massive commitment to research. We're turning a lot of research into nutrition, which is what industry has been asking for, and into knowledge. In addition to all buildings within colleges, roads and railways – and I just want to underline again the great effort we have on transportation for the next year, which is significantly higher than what the Right has ever been in the vicinity of while they were in government. We also have an important investment in the public sector. That's what people also work in the public sector, and we have to make both the public and the private sector work well enough. We believe that with monetary policy, by providing a budget that should also provide a basis for lowering interest rates, with what is hopefully happening later today, and with the grips we did on Sunday, we have presented a solid arrangement, as the situation is now. But we're going to follow it all the time, because we want to make sure that we do have people at work and give even more people a job to go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e862	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e875	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e881	‘The focal point demonstrated in its mission on 7 October that, inter alia, asylum seekers are exploited and work under slave-like conditions in the clean-up industry. The Labour Inspectorate has recently increased its controls in the industry and has revealed very serious infringements. So many as 80 pst. have been imposed on the enterprises surveyed. State councils have mentioned that it may be appropriate to introduce clean-up business ID cards according to the model of the construction industry. Will the Council of State take action to combat the exploitation of asylum seekers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e888	The clean-keeping industry employs many immigrants in Norway. The industry is characterised by a low level of organisation of both employers and employees. Many asylum seekers are granted temporary work permits while waiting for the application for asylum to be finally settled. The aim is to facilitate their ability to do something meaningful during the waiting period and to facilitate integration into Norwegian society. These will be legally recruitable. Asylum recipients provide routine information about taxes and undeclared work to residents. We must prevent people from being exploited in Norwegian working life. The Labour Inspectorate has carried out a number of inspections in the cleaning industry. Un tidy conditions have been identified in the form of breaches of health, environmental and safety rules, undeclared work and lack of employment contracts. The clean-up industry is one of the sectors to which particular attention has been paid in Action Plan 2 against social dumping, which was presented in the context of the State budget. The Labour Inspectorate will step up the supervision of the industry as a result of this, and in the 2009 government budget we propose to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate by a further 10 million. kr. An identification card solution will provide a better overview of industry actors so that control of health, environment and safety, employment and the seriousness of businesses can be better followed up. A study of the system of regional protection agencies in the construction industry shows broad agreement that the representatives do an important job to improve health, environment and safety and to prevent accidents and injuries. We will explore the possibilities of extending the scheme to other industries, including the hotel and restaurant industries and the reindeer sector. Several of the contracting entities mentioned in the Focus Programme were unfortunately public institutions, both municipal and state. Norway has ratified and implemented ILO Convention No. 94 on employment clauses in public contracts. With effect from 1 March of this year, all establishments and establishments subject to the procurement legislation are obliged to require, and follow up, that their suppliers comply with Norwegian wage and working conditions. Public authorities must have, and take, a specific responsibility for acting seriously and combating social dumping. Social dumping in the reindeer industry is often associated with black work and other economic crime. This industry is therefore also a challenge for the tax authorities and the police. In the future, I will place greater emphasis on the cooperation between the departments concerned and the agencies concerned in order to overcome the unworthy and illegal conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e907	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that the Labour Inspectorate will be strengthened, and I also want there to be a special focus on the most vulnerable workers, namely asylum seekers, in this work. As the Council of State said, there are a lot of issues that are being covered in this programme. There was a lack of contracts, there were crazy working time solutions, there was the wrong pay level, there were inhuman relationships, and it's about maybe those in our society who have the worst rights. It is right that the Council of State said that this should be an alternative – it should be a temporary commitment to some asylum seekers. My follow-up question concerns how to continue working with this option. Is it enough to provide information about pay conditions? Is there anything more that can be done in the asylum recipients to make these workers better equipped to enter the Norwegian labour market and have their rights respected?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e914	I think it is very important that the receptions focus, as part of the integration policy, but not least for labour not to be exploited, on informing about the legislation. Then I would like to point out what I said initially in my answer, that there is a low level of organisation in the cleaning industry, and also in the hotel and restaurant industry on the employee side, in the cleaning industry on both sides. It might be the most important questions here. Our experience in social dumping in the construction industry is that the main instrument is good cooperation between employers, workers and authorities, the Norwegian model, where trustees in the trade union movement do a very good job of revealing this type of activity. I stress that thinking regional protection agencies is a way of putting it into system that I think might be the most effective tool. So I just want to remind you that in the matter we're talking about now, it wasn't that they didn't have rights, but that rights are broken, and it's important to reveal that rights are broken.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e919	I agree with the Council of State that there are many things that must happen, not least that supervision will be strengthened. Sometimes you also have to go in and change your policies. I would like to comment on what the Council of State had to say in its first response, namely that the programme revealed that also in the public sector and in a department it was cleaners who worked black and who had not had sufficient rights, with a breach of, among other things. that with contracts. This shows that the rules we have today are not working. They don't work, because it's not going to happen in the public sector. That shouldn't happen, but it happened. In addition, what will the Council of State do to ensure that at least the public sector is a good example of this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e928	In fact, in order to keep the roles between departments, I am responsible for the supervision of the business, whether the business is state-owned or private. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration is responsible for the role of employers in the public sector. What we agree on is that we're concerned about this issue, especially in public agencies. Therefore, this government has ensured the implementation of ILO Convention No. 94, which shall apply to the public sector. That is also why the departments that have had subcontractors who have not had things in order have not done their job, and then, like other employers, they will be told that they have not done their job and that it needs to be tightened up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e938	‘Trafficking in human beings is a very offensive and serious offence. It is therefore positive that the Norwegian police have set up several cases of conviction. Information that the investigation into such cases is at risk due to: heavy interpretative expenditure is worrying. The government often refers to the Soria Moria Declaration, where the fight against trafficking in human beings has been identified as a priority task. What is the status of police action to combat such crimes, and can the Council of State ensure that the fight against trafficking in human beings will continue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e945	I'm very happy to have this question. That's exactly what the questioner says, that this is a priority area for us. I am also pleased that the questioner has included the question that it has been noticed that several convictions have now been made. This is a very difficult field, but the fact that the police have managed to bring some cases forward is certainly important to us. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will strengthen the police’s efforts to combat trafficking in human beings and facilitate temporary residence in Norway for women and children who are victims of trafficking in human beings. This is today’s slave trade – a very serious crime that affects many women, many children and some men as well. The Government's action plan against trafficking in human beings, which I was involved in launching and responsible for, ‘Stop trafficking in human beings’, contains a number of measures that are both individually and collectively important to combat the serious crime actually represented by trafficking in human beings. We have been concerned that the police are organising this fight against trafficking in human beings in a more effective way, not least by establishing a separate group in the Oslo Police District, the STOP Group, which the questioner knows well. It's been very important to us, it's important to us and it's going to be important to us. It has been shown that this group works after the intention. It implemented inter alia: a comprehensive investigation aimed at groups behind the exploitation of women, including: from Bulgaria. The activities are now targeting those who take advantage of Nigerian women in Oslo, Operation Benin. There's a reason to notice the work this group is doing, and I want to give them credit here from this pulpit. The competent approach that we see both in Oslo and in other cities – we have seen very good work in Trondheim and in other cities now – is very important and ensures good priorities and more efficient use of resources than we have seen in the past. This requires very large resources. There are some of the most demanding things we are facing. In recent times, we have seen that expenditure for, among other things, interpretation, also invoked in the media, has increased significantly. Operation Benin alone accounted for interpretative costs of 1.9 million. kr per. September. It says something about the scope of the case, about the complexity and that this costs money. The Oslo police district has indicated that there is no reduction in the activity in this case and that the activity will be covered, if necessary, by redeployment of funds within the year’s budget. Under the authority of the Police Directorate, a competence enhancement programme has been implemented at all levels of the police. In addition, in recent years, the police have been allocated budgets enabling priority to be given to investigating such trafficking in human beings. Then we are now following up the points contained in the 2006 Action Plan against Trafficking in Human Beings, among others. that the so-called reflection period has been extended to six months, which ensures temporary residence for victims far beyond our Convention obligations. In order to safeguard those who actively cooperate with the police in order to detect backers, it may be necessary to ensure their safety. During the autumn of 2008, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion will give new instructions to the Directorate of Foreign Affairs to ensure that victims of human trafficking who have witnessed serious criminal proceedings can, as a general rule, obtain a permanent permit to work or stay. This is important for those who dare to stand up. I also recall the introduction of an extended aid law system for, in particular, those women who are exposed to trafficking in human beings, which is important in order to position themselves in relation to the public sector and to the auxiliaries. We want an ever-increasing improvement in efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e971	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There is little doubt, as the Council of State itself was in it, that this is among the worst forms of crime in our time. It is also a reality that it is the sum of the efforts of the police in many countries and across borders that will help us to combat this type of crime. When you look at how this has been organised in Norway, you often get the impression that it's a little project-based, with a little uncertain funding, and you don't get the continuity, the tranquility, of this effort that you want. It is clear that for women who are then motivated to report, there is uncertainty if there is no guarantee that the police are able to conduct the investigation, so that the cases can be rectified and judged. What will the Council of State do to ensure an even greater degree of predictability in the financing of such a high priority area as this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e982	After all, we have 'power' to ensure that police action is as we actually want it, that priority is given to the areas that the Government wants, where I believe that the Right has supported us in the Stortinget. I'm glad we have a broad consensus on this. There have been two areas I have identified as particularly important, and which we also agree on here in the United Kingdom, namely violence in close relations and the fight against trafficking in human beings. These areas we need to lift. This means that we use both budgets, letters of allocation and other types of channels to ensure that these good groups continue the work they do. So, of course, it's also about resources and personnel, which is all reason to remember in this context as well. So the questioner also points to the international commitment. It is important now that we include: continues the pressure we have to get Norwegian membership of the Prüm agreement. It is therefore an international instrument to help facilitate research in these matters as well, to strengthen international cooperation and to help us launch projects in home countries that can facilitate repatriation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e991	There is little doubt that the police have a wide range of priority tasks, and from New Year's onwards they will be given another task when a law ban on the purchase of sex is introduced. I would like to challenge the Council of State on the following: Given that the police are in a situation where it is not possible to prioritize both parts, is it so that the Council of State believes that human trafficking should be a priority, if the police are in a situation – and I fear that they can come in – where one cannot say yes, both parts, but that one must give priority to one of these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e996	It's always very difficult to get two crimes against each other and tell them what to prioritize. However, I would like to say that in the case of the ban on sex purchase, there is hardly any prohibition and legal measure that saw until those degrees were associated with the fight against trafficking in human beings. So there will be our signal – and I think the Stortinget has previously said that in the future you will support under – that here we have to bet widely on more arenas and reach more people. Many of those who want to be involved in sex shopping will also be current witnesses in human trafficking. So this is related. That's why I believe that the sex purchase ban that comes at some point, after the Storting has handled it, will help us get even more strength in the fight to reduce it both the questioner and I characterize as the slave trade of our modern age.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1004	‘The NRC has on 9 October a case concerning a policeman who ends up protesting that the criminal who attacked him has not been tried by the custody prison. Similarly, there have been other cases of violence against the police that have not been prosecuted. The consequence of this is that it affects the police as a body, that it reduces the motivation of those who work in the police, and that it can affect future recruitment. Does the Council of State believe that today's laws protect the police well enough, and do they need to find such results?'
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1011	The questioner is well aware that there are limitations in my exercise of authority in this type of case, because I cannot instruct either the government, the state attorney or the prosecution authority with regard to the investigative actions you are doing, and the coercive measures you are using. So it's hard to comment on the single thing. But it raises a very important question in relation to the protection of our policemen outside. On a general basis, I would therefore like to stress that it is a high priority work for the Government to fight crime and provide for a sound and effective criminal prosecution. In this context, it is essential that people who are exposed to crime, and the public in general, have confidence in criminal proceedings, including, of course, law enforcement officers who are affected. This is particularly true of matters of great seriousness, such as violence – which we are facing here, and which is the basis for the issue. It is continuously working to improve elements such as the quality of the investigation, the processing time and the percentage of clarification. At the same time, it is imperative that criminal proceedings should be of such a quality as to ensure proper decisions and to ensure the legal certainty of individuals at all stages of the case. It must also apply in this type of case. Police officers shall have and have specific criminal protection. We have a number of general provisions on criminal sanctions against the prevention of police activity and the incrimination of police officers. In the exercise of police authority, police officers have special criminal protection, including: under Section 127 of the Criminal Act, violence against a public official, § 128, the use of threats to cause an official to commit/abstain from an act of service, § 132(a), the counter-measure of the judiciary, and § 326, the prevention of the performance of the duties of a public official. Of course, the general provisions of the penal code, such as those for the protection against bodily impairment, may also be applicable. How does the Court use these provisions? Indeed, the case-law on violence against public officials is consistently strict, and punishment will often be unconditional incarceration in these cases. On the basis of the referenced provisions of the criminal law and applicable criminal law enforcement practices, I am of the opinion that the police in general have good criminal law protection. In the case of custody imprisonment, the conditions for this are strict. It is important to stress that custody imprisonment is not a punishment, but a coercive measure used for security purposes, preferably immediately after the case has arisen. There are no special rules here when the infringement has hit a police officer. The case has to be assessed according to the general rules, and there are several conditions for imprisonment, including: there must be cause for suspicion. Then you have to have special prison grounds. There may be a risk of avoidance, recurrence, loss of evidence, or imprisonment can also be carried out on the basis of Section 172 of the Criminal Procedures Act, which thus allows for the possibility of custody if a release would offend the public and thus be offensive. Section 172 of the Criminal Procedures Act provides for access to prison where the offence in question can provide for at least 10 years of imprisonment, or where there are circumstances which in particular reinforce the suspicion of crime against specified offences, the most serious physical limitations that do not have a criminal sentence of at least 10 years imprisonment. As mentioned above, custody is not punishable. The reaction to violence or other improper conduct against a police officer shall be at the time of the evaluation and measurement of the reaction that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1026	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a theme I should have liked to have heard he had views on, when the Council of State has a concern about how this might turn out to be recruitment. So we have an ongoing and ongoing debate on recruitment and presence of Norwegian police. We had another case in Ringebu where, according to the media, a person was kicked to blood during attempted assault, and where it also appears, as I understand the matter, that there was no criminal reaction against those who did this. That's when I think there's a certain danger that we'll hit the department as such, not least in recruitment, at a time when the Council of State, the Government and the Stortinget have pointed to the need to strengthen and increase education. Isn't the Council of State then concerned about the possible negative consequences of things like this, which might be that people who have decided to apply for the high school of police say, "Well, I should probably have applied, but if that's how I'm treated afterwards, is it worth it?" Therefore, I would like to hear the views of the Council of State as to whether he is concerned about the consequences of recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1037	It's never good luck for the recruitment that you get these kinds of episodes. It doesn't seem tempting to go into a profession where you can be exposed to such things. Let there be no doubt about it. At the same time, however, I would like to say – and it is my experience as a government councillor, opposition politician and, in due course, a criminal law lawyer – that the police are good at investigating this type of case, and the courts are responding resolutely. I also think the questioner agrees with me that the case law reflects that this is taken seriously, because we cannot tolerate the fact that the law enforcement of power is dealt with in this way. That's why it's important, I think, that you just look at the investigation and the final sum of such a case before considering it in a recruitment context. There are, of course, many other prevention measures that need to be implemented and that have to be implemented in connection with, among other things. the investments currently made in protective equipment, etc., which are also important. And happily, the number of applicants went up to the Police College for the current year, which shows that there are still many good students to take off.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1046	That's good. Then there is still hope! It would have been tempting to ask the Council of State to extend this if he perceives it so that the police complain too much. Is it such that, in a way, crisis-maximising to underpin one's own situation and the level of difficulty in a day-to-day life that is probably reasonably tough for some, perhaps especially in large districts where there are few guards, for example on weekends and otherwise – that one is trying to maximize the crisis in order to draw attention to its own role? In addition, I could imagine hearing about the Council of State, after he has explained the law, seeing the need to tighten up the law in order to give the police additional rights and security when they are going to do their job, including whether the Council of State would like to see access to custody when policemen are subjected to violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1055	There were many new questions in the follow-up question, which I have one minute to answer. But I think that my main conclusion, related to what is the basis of the question itself, is that we have jurisdiction for both custody imprisonment, for punishment and also for strict punishment. They must be used. The prosecution authority must then assess whether they are applicable in the specific cases. I believe that the homes I referred to initially show that it is possible to respond when it is necessary. Then I also believe that the police in Norway do not complain too much. I have visited every police district in the last year, with the exception of West Finland. I feel a very positive mood when I meet the police, including the trusted ones. We actually feel that crime in many districts goes down, and you do a very good job. I also record that there have been many headlines in the media now linked to pay – a few months after we had completed the payroll for the police – that have not been positive for the police. But I hope that both the payroll we have behind us, and the future will also help us get the good sides that the Norwegian police represent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1065	‘Recently, we have experienced that the police in Rogaland District have not been able to move out to a number of missions, as a result of understaffing. Several weekends in a row, the police have had to reject a mission. The capacity shortage is evident and documented. How will the Council of State solve this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1072	Initially, I would like to mention briefly that the department previously had the direct office management of the individual police districts. But when the Police Directorate was established and the police reform was adopted by a broad majority in Stortinget, this also meant significant changes in the administrative governance of the Norwegian police. The police districts’ and most special agencies’ budget management tasks were delegated to the Police Directorate, including the allocation of resources and the follow-up of results. This means that the police budget is allocated by the Police Directorate. It is based on a resource allocation model based on a number of criteria that have been used over several years, related to the police’s problem solving, where crime prevention and security represent the main areas. The main challenge for the policing and loner seats now and for some time to come is the lack of police-trained personnel. A direct answer to the representative's question is that we want to train more policemen. We don't want to do what the Right did when they put in government in the last period, to have a recording at the Police College that was down to 240 students, which we are struggling with today. That's the hills we're receiving right now. We want, as the questioner is sure to know, through the submitted state budget to have an admission to next year for 552 students. There's never been such a high record in the police high school before. We've been slow, but probably increased it, so this year and last year we had a recording of 432 students. This is almost a doubling from the low level that the Bondevik government agreed to, and that will help to make future justice ministers less likely to have to answer the kind of questions that we are facing here. This is important. We need more policemen in Norway. We are also aiming to follow up the staffing plan, which was recently published in the ‘Police against 2020’ report, and the budget is a response to that. Now, recruiting 100 new police posts for next year is the result of the increased admission of 360 students in the last year of the Bondevik government. We also aim to strengthen efforts to get more seniors to work longer and also to help ‘exchange’ some civilians, i.e... the possibility for civilians to enter and take over some of the tasks that the police are carrying out today, enabling more policemen to enter more active service.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1083	The presentation made by the Minister of Justice is wrong. The report from Rogaland Police District is that they lack operational means to, among other things, be able to do so. employing more policemen. The solution for them is not that more people get out of the high school, but increased financial resources, which are well documented by public authorities. The Minister of Justice sent a letter on 2 October to the rapporteur in Stavanger, in which there was once again uncertainty about the Minister of Justice on a clear political signal to the Police Directorate that the division of powers now existing between the various police districts should be corrected. That is why, on the basis of the letter sent by the Minister of Justice to the municipality of Stavanger, there is now a basis for making it clear to the Minister of Justice whether it is such that the Minister of Justice has given a clear signal to the Police Directorate that the bias should be corrected by 100 p.m.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1090	To the question of bias first: it's the Police Directorate that's assigned to distribute the funds, according to a model that I initially described. It's always been that to the extent that there's someone who's below the key for distribution, you have to look for increased resources to fill up, so that those who are behind actually take the rest back. That's a line that we're not going to change. So to the first in the questioner's follow-up questions. It's like I'm the Minister of Justice for all of Norway, not just for Rogaland. It makes no sense for us if we recruit more policemen to Rogaland by taking from other districts and thus put the other districts in a similar bad situation. We must have a responsibility for the whole. This is where I think the Right did something unwise when you were in government, driving as low a recording at the Police College as you did. Had you had the recording we're adding up to -- what we have this year and had last year -- we've had more staff and more to send to Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1097	I note that the Minister of Justice is not aware that this bias should be corrected. I have a question in relation to the 216 million. kr that has now been set aside in the state budget of the police. How much of that pot will go to operating costs in the various police districts? So how much of the 216 million? Is it actually going to be used to correct the bias that we're now experiencing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1104	I would like to answer the question of division if it was not clear enough. I said that over the last few years, the Police Directorate has done what you can to repair this bias by filling in with fresh funds, so that those who are hanging after take back the others. We have no intention of stopping that practice of the Police Directorate. As far as the issue of the real distribution in the districts is concerned, it has not yet started. We do not start it until we have had the budgetary procedure in Stortinget. It is precisely to take care of the concerns raised by the questioner, about bias, but also some other issues, crime trends and issues of special needs out there, that we want to see the recommendation of the trades directorate before we go to the Storting and tell you how much it is going to be on each one. This is what you traditionally do after the budget has been adopted in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1111	Now, really, question 13 was to be answered, but because of delays, the Storting goes to question 16. Question 13 will be moved to the last, after question 3. Questions 14 and 15 have already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1121	‘I refer to my question about the expansion of Lånefjord power plant earlier this year, when the Council of State promised a quick clarification. Since no decision has yet been taken, I will ask the Council of State what is now preventing a decision in the case."
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1128	State power has applied for additional expansion in the already regulated and enlarged High-Anger Watercourse. The NVE recommends that Statkraft be granted a concession for Eiriksdal power plants in the municipality of Høyang, which, in the opinion of the NVE, is the best option, and the option that Statkraft primarily wants to expand. Subsidy, Statkraft is seeking to build Lånefjord power plant in the municipality of Balestrande. The Ministry was on tour in the development area in September 2007, and in this connection it met with Høyanger and Balestrand municipalities. In May this year, the department had new meetings with Høyanger and Balestrand municipalities and with Sogn and Fjordane County. I am committed to exploiting the prohibitive hydropower of our power recovery. Such exploitation is particularly important in a water strand that has already been used for hydropower generation. At the same time, I would like to ask for an understanding of the need to carry out a thorough concessional process in which all interests are balanced against each other, based on a solid and secure factual basis. Such clarifications make it necessary to use the time needed to find the best solution to the development case. Finally, we are now in the final phase of this concession work. The matter will then be decided by the Royal Resolution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1139	I thank you for your answer. After all, state power would first expand on the Loan Fjord, but turned after political pressure. Then you can wonder: What is the driving force behind the development of clean renewable energy? Are there local governments and strong local politicians, or is it the power potential of the community? Indeed, 193 more GWh has been documented, in addition to environmental and economic benefits, by choosing the Loan fjord option. This is documented with small-scale projects from Sognekraft. Are policy-makers aware of future power needs and opportunities to facilitate meeting the needs of this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1150	I believe to be very aware of the need to regain power, and I also have a significant commitment to regain power on my own. I believe that small-scale projects are essentially excellent projects. They combine it to satisfy the need for strength with the development of nutrition in many rural communities. In most cases, we are also able to handle it in an environmentally good way. So small power is essentially very sensible projects. Having said that, I do not want to go in and assess the two solutions that the representative Halleraker draws up, and in and out, against each other. I respect the treatment that we are now in the middle of. Once the matter has been resolved by the Royal Resolution, of course, my assessments of the various aspects of this project will come to light against each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1157	I thank you again for the answer. It's a fact that 101 GWh is the extra power you get from the Loan Fjord option. But I have another supplementary question. The settings of Statkraft and NVE have taken into account the environment, of course. However, is it considered that a new connecting station is to be built which binds 50 dimensions of the Dale in Høyanger and which is to have lines up and down from the mountain to the new 420 kV line Fardal–Örskog, or is it only taken into account that the older line is to be removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1166	As I said in my previous answer, I do not want to go into the details in relation to neither the evaluation of the specific application nor, where appropriate, what lies behind the neighbouring issues related to it. I perceive the last question that the representative Halleraker raises, as definitely being of such a nature, so I won't say anything about it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1174	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘Tafjord Kraftnet received a concession two years ago to build a new air link between Stordal and Norddal, in the edge of the Geiranger World Heritage Site. The municipality of Norddal and the World Heritage Council appealed the case, and former councillor Odd Roger Enoksen, according to the former rapporteur of the Centerpartiet, Arne Sandnes, stated that wiring over Valldal should be currant. Could the Council of State give a good reason why the Government has turned the case around and now choose to reject the complaint from the municipality of Norddal and the Council of World Heritage?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1183	The Ministry of Oil and Energy finally took a decision in this power line case on 23 September this year. The Ministry’s handling of the complaint case has been in line with general administrative rules based on the documents of the case, the findings of inspections and meetings, and other relevant reports of the ministry have been made known. The clerical views on cabling over the Valldalen have been carefully assessed together with a number of other questions. The Ministry assessed the benefits and disadvantages of adding the power transmission as a ground cable at the intersection of the Valldalen based on the management strategy for the environment and aesthetics in electricity lines adopted by the Stortinget. The Ministry found that there were no such strong protection interests or major aesthetic disadvantages that there was a basis for the installation to be wired. Therefore, the requirement for cabling over the Valldalen could not be met. With regard to the objections to interference in the World Heritage Edge Zone, the Ministry assessed in particular the landscape effects of the power line. Although there is a certain possibility of some silhouette effect, it would be difficult under normal conditions to see the power line due to the large distance between the concessional trajectory and the world heritage area. The ministry found that the adopted solution in total would not lead to any significant aesthetic deterioration. Before the Ministry of Oil and Energy took a decision on the complaint, the issue of the World Heritage Site was clarified by the Ministry of the Environment as the responsible authority for following up UNESCO cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1198	I thank you for your answer. I note that the department here has assessed it so that this will not harm the world heritage area. But I have another question. On Saturday, October 11, we read the following: ‘The Geiranger fjord may be removed from the World Heritage List due to power lines.’ Further: "I'm worried about our fjords. Norway has a great responsibility to preserve them, says Kris Endresen of the UNESCO Centre in Oslo.’» And on the other hand, ‘Power lines in this area may lead to the deletion of the fjords from the World Heritage List, Trond Taugbøl of the Riksantikvaren’.» They're heading for Geirangerfjord and Nærøyfjorden. Can the Council of State guarantee that power lines in the Geiranger fjord area will not be built in such a way as to cause the Geiranger fjord to be removed from the UNESCO World Heritage List, as the Riksantikvar and Endresen of the UNESCO Centre fear?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1222	I'm, as I think the representative is familiar with, concerned with cultural landscapes and it's different ways of working for us to take care of it. I mean the values that Geiranger and the World Heritage Site represent are vital values that we're going to take care of. So it's like there's also some challenges related to getting power out of it. We want to expand small power. We have a challenge in relation to access to power in Middle Norway. It's hard to imagine that we can both solve the situation in Middle Norway and bring forward the new green force, without having to have any new line trails and some reinforcements of the power grid. Then there are some balances in the individual situation with regard to the use of earth cable, sea cable, when we need line networks in air and its limitations, looking up to the important cultural landscape considerations that we, for example. has in Geiranger.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1229	I am very concerned about these fjords, and I sincerely hope that the department here intervenes and does what is right to do when this line is to be built. When you read the statements in the daily newspaper of October 11 from both the UNESCO Center in Oslo and Trond Taugbøl at the Riksantikvaren, you get worried, because here are people who are actually in the middle of it and should know what they are talking about. I hope and ask the Council of State to follow this case with the eyes of the Argus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1234	I believe it is a relevant and serious matter that the representative raises, because there is no doubt that there are conflicts in bringing about power and taking care of areas that the representative here mentions. What I can promise around it is that argus eyes will be used, and that the focus on the values that the representative addresses here in relation to cultural landscapes needs to be given strong weight when we are going to bring forward new large cable lashes. So, as I said in my previous answer, it will be difficult balances that need to be taken in order to combine the need to generate green and gladly new energy and meet the need for energy, for example. in central Norway with just the need to maintain cultural landscapes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1239	So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1245	This question, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1248	The question is really for the Minister of Transport – but it may be a little more expensive to pick up from the Minister of Oil and Energy. ‘The E16 route between Oslo and Bergen is one of Norway’s most important trajectory veins and the only secure all-year open link between west and east. Now the E16 in Valdres has gone mad again. The stretch has been ready for expansion for a scandalously long time. It is not in the next budget either with funds for development. Does the Council of State feel comfortable with this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1257	I believe – first of all – that the Minister for Transport has shown on his own that it is possible to obtain appropriations for the road sector, and that if the Stortinget adopts the very ambitious draft budget presented by the Minister for Transport for the next year, we will have the opportunity to solve more and more challenges than has been the case with the road budgets that the Stortinget has previously addressed. As far as the E16 is concerned, I agree with the assessments made here by the representative Nistad, in the sense that the E16 plays a special role as a main trunk road between the west and the east. I am pleased that, in connection with the government change, we have increased the appropriations so that we have completed or started the important development projects on the E16 that are part of the 2006-2009 action programme. This despite strong market price increases and increased need for operational and maintenance appropriations. Now in September, Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete opened the line E16 Borlaug–Voldum in Sogn and Fjordane, and soon E16 Wøyen–Bjørum in Akershus is finished. The Government, in its 2009 budget proposal, has set out to launch all projects in the action programme where adequate plan clearance and funding arrangements are in place. In the previous government’s proposal for NTP for 2006-2015, no major E16 projects other than those mentioned above have been proposed. The Ministry of Transport will return to the E16 priorities of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. Then there was a race at Bergsund, approx. 2.5 km south of Bagn in the municipality of South Aurdal, Monday 6 October about midday. Three to four large blocks fell on the E16. The road was closed immediately and opened again Tuesday afternoon after cleaning and cleaning. The breed went into an area on the Parselle Fønhus-Bagn, where it is assessed to build a new E16 in the tunnel. The Swedish Road Administration is working on a revision of the regulation plan between Fønhus and Bagn. This work also includes a geological assessment of the stability of the area. According to the State Road Administration, the plan was expected to be approved during the spring of 2009. It has been assessed as relevant with partial toll financing of the project. In 2008, funds were granted for the racial protection of E16 on this route. In fact, work is currently in progress on the cleaning and securing of the mountain along a distance further south. The State Road Service now assesses what the race that took place on 6 October will result in additional costs of racial protection in addition to the work already started.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1272	I thank you for your answer. It was an answer that was expected, that there was a lot of money going on. We've heard that a lot. But to concrete E16 in Uppland, there is not at all a single penny inside the next budget. That distance has been raging several times. Then my question is: If a new breed comes with a tragic outcome, who is responsible when nothing is done? Repeatedly there have been tragic consequences in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1281	I think that entrance to the question might be something special. We know that we have significant race-related challenges in Norway in general. For my own part, I last Tuesday presented an overall plan for race and progress in general, where we make NVE the floor in this area. We know that the State of Transportation and the Ministry of Transport spend considerable money each year on racial protection. We can never guarantee that such things can't happen related to race. The important thing is to give priority to action through an economic framework. We all know the Minister of Transport's great commitment in this area. Racial etching is a priority, and in concrete terms it is now working on racial protection in the area we are discussing. In the case of E16 and Uppland, I just want to repeat what I said in my first answer: The government has implemented the projects that were inside the NTP linked to the E16. The priorities on which it was based must be expressed by the representative of Nistad. But that's the priorities you've chosen to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1288	I thank you for your answer. I am glad that the Council of State will focus on race and that there are increased funds for racial protection. But it helps so little for Uppland, when all the money goes to other counties. The other states also have legitimate demands for a good deal of money, but is it not that the pot should be increased even more in order to ensure a part of the domestic population, which is also exposed to race? This does not apply only to the E16 in Oppland. We've also had some breeds on Rv. 33, Gjøvik–Minnesund, which is an even larger transport stage for both trailers and ordinary people. Don't the Council of State agree that the pot should actually be increased even more, so that the domestic states also get something?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1295	I see it as there are two questions here. One takes on the general priority of the racial problem. As I said in my previous answer, the Minister of Transport is extremely concerned about this racial problem – it was she who communicated on TV a few days ago – and it is going to be further worked on it. The second question raised relates to whether Uppland receives too little of the pot, whether it is race or road in general. I'm not going to go into concrete assessment of the situation of the individual states around it, but I think it's important to repeat the fact that when the Stortinge set priorities at the heart of the NTP, it's important that it's respect for those priorities, and that it's also from the Ministry of Transport and the Minister's side that priority is given to implementing the projects related to the E16 that the Stortinge itself has prioritised to come first. And then there will be a new process around this in connection with the development of a new NTP for the next planning period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1302	The last question to be answered is question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1308	«Kristent Arbeid Among the blind and partially syndicated operate a publicly approved audio library. [[CABB]] KABB also provides general facilities for visually impaired persons in the church. The funds from the KABB State budget have covered about 1/3 of the costs of maintaining the audio library in recent years. In the 2009 budget, aid is increased by 8 pst. Support for the organisation of the church is not adjusted. Does the Council of State consider that KABB’s audio library and organisation work to be important for the blind and partially syndicated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1315	I thank you for the question. The answer is an unconditional yes. The State is responsible for providing visually impaired persons with an offer of cultural and literary experiences and participation in religious life. We know that many weak minds, and especially many older ones, use the sound library of Kristent Arbeid Among the blind and weak mind actively. The organisation, together with the Norwegian State Audio and Braille Library, represents the public library offer for the blind, partially syndicated and others with reading disabilities in Norway. The two institutions are complementary. Kristent Arbeid Among the blind and weak-minded produce Christian literature, while the Norwegian Audio and Braille Library produces more general literature and study literature. The Norwegian Audio and Braille Library has national responsibility in this field for guidance, production and dissemination, and the government funds for organised library services go mainly to the Norwegian Audio and Braille Library. Kristent Arbeid Among the blind and partially syndicate, the offer from the Norwegian Audio and Braille Library complements it in a good way. The Norwegian Audio and Braille Library and Kristent Arbeid Among the blind and partially sighted, together, provide a sound and good offer for the country's visually and visually impaired, and we believe that continued cooperation is valuable. In 2009, Kristent Arbeid Among the blind and partially blind receive a grant of approx. 1.2 million. kr for the operation of its audio library, an increase of 9 pst. from 2008. This increase has taken into account the assumed higher remuneration rates after the signing of the new Audio Book Agreement between the State and the rightholders on the summer of 2008. There is also a grant for Christian Work Blind and feeble over Chapter 340 of the State budget 71 Grants for church purposes. The grant, proposed for 2009 at NOK 300000, is granted as general operating aid to the organisation for the organisation of Christian literature, etc., i.e. organisational and community journals, baptismal and confirmatory material, information services, etc. for blind and partially sighted. In addition to the increase in the allocation to Kristent Arbeid Among the blind and partially syndicated, the Government proposes to increase the Norwegian audio and Braille library's allocation by 4.5 million. kr next year. This means that we've increased the appropriation by over 7.5 million. kr since we took over the government offices. So this is a work we prioritise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1328	I thank you for your answer. I am very happy to be in dialogue with the Council of State on this important offer and for this unconditional yes that the Council of State is basing on. For many of us, it's a pleasure to crawl into the book's world. For visually impaired people, who cannot avail themselves of the usual library, it is important that we have Norwegian audio and Braille library and KABB. It is the case that NLB relies on KABB for religious literature. They have good cooperation in the exercise of what NLB has in its statutes, including: states that the NLB shall ‘continue and maintain a varied supply of Braille literature and audiobooks’. I hope that the Council of State agrees with the understanding that NLB has in relation to KABB – that they are leaning on KABB and must have good cooperation – and that there can be an increase in the budget framework within which KABB and NLB are to work, because it is only by increasing the appropriations they are able to carry out this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1339	I am pleased with the representative's strong commitment to this topic. Literature, reading experiences, must be for everyone, not for the few. The fact that you also have the possibility of being weak or blind is important, and this offer facilitates it. The promise we make especially for the Norwegian Audio and Braille Library in 2009 is great. It's part of the cultural promise. Facilitating artistic and cultural experiences for all groups is a very strong support in that effort. An increase of 9 pst. in 2009 to Kristent Arbeid Among the blind and feeble are a large percentage increase, although the amounts are not so large. Within the Cultural Lift, there is an absolute room for this type of bet as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1346	I thank you for your answer. The councils are saying that there's not much money we're talking about -- yes, there's a percentage increase of 11 and 9. However, when the KABB in the 2009 draft budget is expected to have 1.3 million. And they're saying they need 2.8 million. kr, it's worth 1.5 million. kr it says to be able to publish 60 new titles in 2009. It's an important offer, we agree on that. The question is why the state cannot participate and contribute a little more so that we are able to produce these 60 titles, without this having to be taken from the funds collected, as the operation today adds.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1355	The reality is that in the 2009 state budget, the investment in this area is increasing by almost 5 million. kr. But the main emphasis of the bet is going to the Norwegian Audio and Braille library, partly because they have the full range of literature, but also because new agreements on remuneration make us have to make a formidable uplift in 2009. It was the promise that was most important to make. We still found room for a very good percentage increase for Christian Work Among the blind and feeble, and this will be an area that we are aware of also in the future. The government is reporting on the library sector in the winter. The organisation of different groups will be an important integral part of the strategy and action plans that will result from that communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-15.ana.ud2216e1362	The map of the day is then finished. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
