ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e55	From Røjres Storingsgruppe there is an application from the meeting representative of Sør-Trøndelag County under the representative Børge Brendespermition, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget, due to birth, from 22 May onwards and until the end of the spring session of Stortinget. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. - It is deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of the South-Trøndelag County, Michael Momyr, are proposed to meet under Mr Børge Brende's leave. - It is deemed to have been adopted. From 22 May to 5 June, an application has been submitted by the Højres Storingsgruppe to the representative of Trond Helleland. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Beate Heieren Hundhammer, is proposed to meet during the leave period. - It is deemed to have been adopted. Beate Heieren Hundhammer is present and will take the seat. The representative, Torbjørn Hansen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e85	On behalf of the representatives of Ivar Kristiansen, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself, I would like to make proposals to improve the quota flexibility of the marine fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e90	The representative, Mr Sahl, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e93	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative from the representatives of Laila Davøy, Line Henriette Holten Hämdal and myself for better organisation for cyclists in cities and towns.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e98	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning sitting - if necessary - continue beyond the regulatory time, at 9 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. - No objection has been raised against the President's proposal, and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after the No. 1-5 on today's map has been completed, and then voting after case no. 6 at the end of the day if there is a need for voting. - No objection has been raised against the President's proposal, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e120	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3305]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e136	The Committee notes that the protection against discrimination on grounds of sex and discrimination against minorities is enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights, in the UN Declaration of Human Rights and in the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, but not in the Constitution. The 1948 UN Declaration of Human Rights states in the first sentence of Article 1: ‘All human beings are born free and with the same human dignity and human rights.’ The first sentence of Article 2 reads as follows: ‘Anyone shall be entitled to all the rights and freedoms referred to in this Declaration without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other circumstances.’ The Committee points out that the UN Declaration of Human Rights is not legally binding, but that it provides the basis for subsequent binding UN conventions that protect against discrimination, including: on the basis of disabled persons. The principle of equality of all people is the starting point for legislation aimed at protecting against discrimination. The draft Constitution we are debating today aims to introduce a separate constitutional provision, § 110d, on protection against discrimination on grounds of sex and discrimination against minorities. The proposers point out that although formal equality is well under way in ordinary law, discrimination is still taking place. They stress that the protection against discrimination on grounds of sex, colour of skin, national or ethnic origin, linguistic or religious affiliation, disability, sexual orientation, form of life or orientation, age or other circumstances, as formulated in the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, is not enshrined in the Constitution. The proposalers consider it most practical that discrimination against minorities and discrimination on the grounds of sex is regulated in the same provision, as the abovementioned conventions do, and as laid down in the Constitutions of Sweden, Finland and Iceland. When the UN Declaration of Human Rights was adopted, there was a point to make a number of the grounds for discrimination to be protected and covered by Article 2, extending its interpretation, so that the article would also cover the development of society in time. It was therefore at the end of the evocative first sentence of Article 2, including the wording ‘or other matters’. In the last 20 to 25 years, there has been an increased focus on lesbians and gays and discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation in the United Nations. In a 1994 decision of the UN Committee on Human Rights, which provides for complaints against the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, in the Toen v Australia case, the Human Rights Committee formally confirmed for the first time that the definition also included discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. Later, the Committee has also dealt with the Young vs. Australia case, which confirms that the family concept also includes couples of the same sex. In addition, several UN Special Rapporteurs have different committees, including: The Human Rights Commission - which from 2006 has the name Human Rights Council - reports on health, torture, human rights defenders, etc. Focused on the widespread discrimination and abuses taking place in many countries on the basis of sexual orientation, and on the need to strengthen protection for this group as well. In addition, since the first judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in 1981, a broad range of case-law has been developed in various areas, such as privacy, family, working life and children, relating to the terminology of sexual orientation. An increasing number of countries in several parts of the world have gone ahead of Norway in including sexual orientation in constitutional provisions. These include, inter alia: Sweden, South Africa, Portugal, Fiji and Ecuador. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, agree that a more detailed constitutional provision on human rights and its protection against discrimination may be desirable, but this majority will await the suspension of the Discrimination Law Committee and an overall assessment of the place of human rights in the Constitution before considering whether and how any protection against discrimination should be expressed. Another majority, the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, point out that although formal equality is well under way in ordinary law, discrimination continues. Protection against discrimination on grounds of sex and protection against discrimination against minorities, as formulated in the European Convention on Human Rights, in the UN Declaration of Human Rights and in the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, is not enshrined in the Constitution. This majority believe that it is a weakness of the Constitution that discrimination against minorities and discrimination on grounds of sex is not defined, as is done in the Constitutions of Sweden, Finland and Iceland. This majority further points out that the Equality Ombudsman considers it natural that the principle of gender equality is enshrined in the Constitution and points out that several international organisations have underlined to Norway that it would be appropriate to provide constitutional protection against ethnic discrimination, which is also supported by the Centres against ethnic discrimination. This majority further points to the support of the Norwegian Handicap Association for the constitutionalisation of the prohibition of discrimination against people with disabilities. This majority also emphasises that several UN bodies have focused on the widespread discrimination and abuses that occur in many countries due to sexual orientation, and on the need to strengthen protection for this group as well. It is noted that an increasing number of countries in several parts of the world have gone ahead of Norway by including provisions on protection against discrimination because of sexual orientation in their constitutional provisions. The minority of the Committee, the members of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Parity, indicate that two alternative proposals for the new § 110 of the Constitution have been promoted. These members also refer to the justifications of the proposers and recommend that the proposal in Document No. 12:16 for 2003-2004 - Option 1 - acceptable. The proposal reads as follows: "No gross discrimination on grounds of sex, skin colour, national or ethnic origin, eloquence or religious affiliation, disability, sexual orientation, form of life or orientation, age or other status shall be suffered." These members find it natural that the fundamental law provision is placed in a new § 110d according to the human rights provision of § 110c, and as an important deepening and clarification of § 110c. I would like to address the minority's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e188	The representative Lars Peder Breck has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e191	The rapporteur has made a thorough presentation of the position and, as it shows, there is indeed broad political agreement that it is desirable to include a provision of the Basic Law on Protection Against Discrimination, whether by reason of sex or minority membership, as formulated in the various international conventions on human rights. The same applies to a provision on gender equality. It will be a natural renewal of the Constitution to obtain such a provision as a deepening of today's § 110c. If the Labour Party does not support the proposal today, the grounds for the Discrimination Law Committee include: performs an overall assessment of the place of human rights in the Constitution. The selection will be finished its work in July next year, and it will then be natural, we believe, to await the selection timing. The Constitution currently provides for protection of human rights and a number of detailed provisions on certain aspects of the concept of human rights. A natural part of the renewal of the Constitution at this point will be to bring together these provisions, while introducing provisions that reflect more precisely than at present the content of the various international human rights conventions on which Norway has committed itself. We therefore believe that this can best be done by getting the setting from the Discrimination Law Committee on the table. Fortunately, in the day-to-day work against discrimination and for equality, there are two things that are more important than new provisions of the Constitution. That's the rest of the law we have, and the practice of it, and it might be our first attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e202	The right to equal treatment and freedom from discrimination is a fundamental principle that SV believes must be borne in our Constitution. Therefore, we believe that a provision prohibiting discrimination and indiscriminate discrimination on grounds of skin colour, gender, national or ethnic origin, linguistic or religious affiliation, disability, sexual orientation, age or other status should be included in the Constitution. Everyone shall be equal to the law and shall be entitled, without discrimination, to equal protection of the law. Protection against discrimination is also a fundamental human right and a fundamental civil right. Such fundamental civil rights have their natural place in the Constitution - and preferably also in understandable Norwegian. The international conventions do not prevent this, rather on the contrary. Other countries have gone ahead of us - Finland, Iceland, Sweden, Portugal, South Africa, etc. A key principle is that the State should not discriminate against and discriminate against citizens. Discrimination is taking place, and in Norway we have many different legal provisions that prevent this in different laws. In the Labour and Social Committee, we are now dealing with Ot.prp. No 44, on the Discrimination and Accessibility Act. In the last period, we implemented the Racism Convention in Norwegian law through the Discrimination Act. The Labour Environment Act has several provisions against discrimination. The Equality Act begins to have a few years at the back, and there are legal provisions in many other laws on this topic. The government is now investigating a common protection against discrimination. This is important to remove the hierarchy that we have in the practical protection of discrimination in Norwegian legislation today. But will that be enough? SV means no. We believe that there is a need for constitutional protection. In the Norwegian State of law, it is the responsibility of the State to facilitate the holding and access of individual citizens to fundamental rights essential to the function of equivalent citizens. The rights laid down in the Basic Law concern both democratic rights such as the right to vote, freedom of expression, nutrition, legal certainty, and material rights such as the right to work, the right to a clean environment, etc. In addition, there are provisions on restrictions on the right of authorities to intervene in the lives of individuals. The Constitution requires the state to respect human rights. In fact, in the provisions of the Basic Law, it is perhaps only § 100 on freedom of expression, § 97 on the prohibition of the effects of laws and § 105 on the protection of property rights, which acts as rights with practical application to the individual citizen. However, regardless of whether the provisions of the Constitution have a material value, the provisions on labour, human rights and the environment show that man and human needs are at the centre of the building of society and the institutions laid down by the Constitution. This is a choice of values that our society has made, and it is enshrined in the Constitution through the various provisions. The areas covered by the Basic Law must be considered as the society and authorities which are of crucial importance for the interests of society and individuals, and as fundamental and necessary factors which must be in place to achieve those objectives. There is a debate on whether the Constitution needs revision. That is not what this is about, but some of us believe that it should be converted into understandable Norwegian and be in line with the principles that Norway is actually governed by. However, regardless of that, a constitutional anti-discrimination clause has a natural place in the Norwegian Constitution precisely because it is a common value, which I believe there is a large and broad consensus in the Stortinget and among the authorities today. In the debate on the Constitution, the head of the Law Association, Anders Ryssdal, writes in an article in the Evening Post on 19 May that when we read the Norwegian Constitution, we cannot really read anything about what rights Norwegian citizens have or should have. Furthermore, he writes that, with the exception of the paragraphs I mentioned earlier, there are few basic civil rights mentioned in the Constitution, such as: «the right to a fair trial, the prohibition of double-punishment, the right to criminal proceedings» and the type of fully-principal questions of civil law. But many of these rights are found in international conventions - the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Code. But using them as legal sources is a rather demanding exercise, I think, even for experienced lawyers. The drug is based on English and French and is also based on a number of social conditions that are different from ours. Therefore, it is necessary and important for us, in the SV's view, that we also implement this provision in the Constitution, so that it becomes quite clear that there is a fundamental principle in our system of governance. I understand from what has been said in the debate here before today, and what is in the vote, that there is a broad consensus that these are fundamental and important principles. The question is whether it should be stated in the Constitution. I note that the majority will await the investigation, but I interpret what is written and what is being said from the pulpit today, as if it is a natural renewal of the Constitution that these provisions actually come in, and I think that is very positive. Therefore, I would like to inform you that SV will submit a new constitutional proposal on the matter, possibly in a slightly modified wording, for treatment during the next major period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e223	I can appeal to the rapporteur in its entirety, except for the conclusion. I have problems understanding it, because there is a broad consensus in the Storting on the need for protection of discrimination. Hardly any country has been so precise in implementing and respecting the UN Conventions that protect against discrimination, and the European Convention on Human Rights. The previous speaker said that even good lawyers have problems using the European Convention on Human Rights as a source of justice. It's me stranger--absolute stranger. I have not seen any lawyer argue that so far lawyers should have problems looking up in the European Convention on Human Rights or respecting the Court of Justice in Strasbourg. On the other hand, the practical protection of discrimination is a challenge. It would be independent of the constitutional provisions, because not all practical protection of discrimination can be ensured by law, either by the Constitution. Much has happened internationally in the field of discrimination in recent years, not least the fact that the United Nations has occasionally resorted to discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation and on the basis of religion, which in many countries is perhaps the most widespread form of discrimination and which has in part increased in scope. But unlike what I see as a majority of the United Nations Member States, Norway actually respects such anti-discrimination decisions at both European and international level. So what's the disagreement going on? It follows that a sample has been set up to assess whether and how protection against discrimination is to be incorporated into the Norwegian Constitution, and this sample is to present its position within a year from now, more precisely by 1 July 2009. The question then is whether to wait until the sample has submitted its professional position before possibly including it in a new constitutional provision - or more. So I can't see any argument that would suggest that you can't wait this year to get the professional basis for a constitutional change. After all, constitutional changes are something we don't do every other day here in Stortinget. We also have a tradition of having a good professional basis for doing so. The practical protection of discrimination will not suffer from waiting for a year of fundamental law on which there is a broad consensus in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e237	The representative Foss says that he does not know that some experienced lawyers have thought that this material is difficult. Then I'll just quote the head of the law firm, who writes: The ‘application of legal substance from there’ – i.e. from the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Code – ‘is a demanding task’ – knows that those of us who have had cases in Norwegian courts. The legal source material is in English and French.» [[except in the case of a minority of Norway judges]] I quote: ‘Even experienced lawyers can quickly be alienated in this legal substance. We should therefore now have those citizens’ rights in the Norwegian language in the Constitution.’ So this is written by the head of the law firm, which is an experienced lawyer. So it's enough that the need to put this in place in the Constitution is recognised by more people. I understand that the representative Foss may also think so, but that he will wait until the sample has submitted his investigation. I look forward positively to the Right participating in such a constitution proposal in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e252	The representative Andersen mixes two things - the legal source material and a constitutional law provision. A Norwegian Constitutional Law on the Protection of Discrimination will not exempt lawyers from having to apply in legal sources even in European Courts of Human Rights. That it can be complicated, I can see. But to put it this way: it's of the challenges a lawyer is trained to take. It will not be any easier after a constitutional decree in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e257	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e260	The rapporteur-in-chief Lars Peder Breck has explained the various parties' position in this matter. However, I find reason to stress that the starting point for the Christian People's Party's policy is the Christian view of humanity, which implies that every human being has an infinite value. Human dignity is inviolable and shall not be subject to grading by age, performance, sex, sexual orientation, residence, skin color, belief or outlook. Just so it's said. These are also principles sought in the declarations of human rights. Human rights are already enshrined in the Constitution in more general form. We also have our own human rights law that lists a number of international conventions and protocols in this area, which will apply as Norwegian law. The Christian People's Party is initially absolutely open to - and several have stressed that they see it the same way - a more detailed constitutional provision on human rights and the protection they provide against discrimination. However, as others have pointed out, the so-called Discrimination Committee, which is due to present its position by 1 July 2009, is investigating the issue of general protection against discrimination in the Constitution. We therefore believe, like several, that it is natural and proper to await this investigation, so that a more comprehensive assessment of the case can be made. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will today vote against the present draft constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e270	Let me also contact the case spokespersons. We in the Progress Party are also pretty much a few in everything he said, except for the conclusion. Let me also commend the proposers, because I think it makes sense and right that, with time and time, we also have a constitutional human rights clause. Now, when we're in the situation that the selection that goes through this thoroughly, almost in the goal, I think - also with the background that it takes a long time to change the Constitution - that it would make sense to wait for this selection to be declared. When we first go to the step of doing something that, in fact, a consensual magnification seems to mean, at least with the composition it has today, we should do it correctly. Because, as I said, it'll take some time. And if we have to change it again, it'll go over a scaling choice before we can do it. It's enough to show that one of the first things this committee did when he was seen down after the collapse option last, was actually changing the spelling error, which then took some time. In the same meeting, we made a constitutional amendment proposal that once again requires us to change it, perhaps during the next big period, because there were some typographical errors that were not in line with the language form in which the Constitution was created. Let me say, as a discretion, that I am of the opinion that we should maybe review the whole Constitution and get it in a language that is natural for Norway today -- like in new Norwegian, to say it like that, but also in bookcases. Then I could personally have imagined that on 17 May 2014, the Stortinget could adopt a new constitution that is language-true, in relation to today's law. It's probably more dreams than reality so far, I think. But it could be a matter that can perhaps be sown now and sprout a little later - after the person has ended in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e279	Let me first repeat to the representative Solholm that there is a lot of point of view on the issue of the Constitution and the text. That's where I represent the opposite position. I believe that the text and the language used by the Constitution should be retained, and I do not look forward to having this revised in 2014. I think, on the contrary, that there's a certain-- let's say-- symbolic and historical significance in choosing to keep the language, albeit the snitch and the old-fashioned. On this question, I believe that most parties will be divided, or that the different representatives will have different views. This is not related to batch color, but is more related to how you feel that the Constitution should work. So for the reason that I took the word. This is a very positive debate. The fact that, at present, the majority of the proposal that lies there is not crucial to me. I have a great deal of understanding and respect for those who believe that we should await the position of the Committee on Discrimination, which is coming next summer. That's good reason, and many here in the hall have given a good reason why it's important to wait. Because when a sample is put down, the conclusion of the sample is, of course, to be awaited. It is also a long procedure, and there is a long tradition that the Constitution should have a proper review. You don't do this by bench proposals in Stortinget. In this case, all parties have expressed their understanding and even support for the content of the legal paragraph tabled by Lars Peder Breck on behalf of the minority in an excellent way. That means that in the next round there will hopefully be a broad majority in this Chamber who want the provisions that we have today voted down to be incorporated into the Constitution. The fact that we are now submitting this to voting is also linked to the fact that these constitutional provisions are to be dealt with in the first three years of a big deal, not in the last session. This proposal is, as everyone knows, delivered in the previous period, and it would be unnatural for us not to take this up to voting, even if we see that it will be voted down. But my starting point is that there has been a very positive debate related to this, and that the next big step will be to take the historic step of getting a separate provision of the Basic Law relating to the protection of minorities, which will be a major and significant step for our nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e290	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3305]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e306	On several occasions, the majority has previously discussed similar proposals to amend the Constitution to repeal the State Church Scheme, and the proposals have always been rejected. The report on State-Church relations is now being discussed in the Church, Education and Research Committee. A few weeks ago, it became known as having been negotiated by all the parties here in the house about the future relationship between state and church. The agreement implies that there will also be changes to the Constitution. Proposals to this effect will be promoted in this session and addressed during the next majorisation period. In the light of this, the Committee has not found it natural to go into the present constitutional proposals in detail. It is therefore an overall committee that now rejects the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e315	These debates in Stortinget have, of course, been marked by some ritualism. They come once every four years, and the result has been pretty much the same every time. SV plus some others, mainly from the Workers' Party, have voted to change the ties between state and church. This debate is likely to be the last with such a ritual character. In four years the Stortinget shall break the constitutional ties between the State and the Church. For us, this is also a confirmation that work done is coming to an end. I'm not going to try to give us greater honor than what we deserve. But changing the relationship between state and church is a historical necessity, so it would have come sooner or later anyway. Hopefully, our work has helped to speed up the process. The Church of the State is a widowed child of the one time violence. Even after the Reformation, there was a bond between church power and king/fortieth power, which provided the basis for the subsequent development of a theology, under the sole king of violence, in which the King gained all power, even in the Church, and where the King had been established by God, in other words, appeared on behalf of God. The Toregiment doctrine was developed to keep people calm and ensure that no questions were asked about the established structures. This symbiotic relationship between church and king still has up to our time. Not that the King as a person has retained his power over the Church, but that they use every opportunity to appear together. It can be anything from a royal wedding, a Crown Prince's wedding or a sign to mark church festivals. This is strategic and wise, because they both represent institutions that are not in line with the major political changes that have occurred in the last 150 years, with the democratization of society. The fact that the Church of State and the monarchy have survived, I think to a large extent, is due to the close ties that have existed between the Church and the King. The Constitution further led the idea from the time of one-off violence, using the term ‘remaining’. Evangelical Lutheran religion was therefore still to be the public religion of the state. In addition to the 1800s, the Church evolved towards becoming an official church. Priests and bishops were strengthened in power. The king left to the performance to exercise power. The only breach of that tradition was the Convention plaque, which was lifted in 1842. This occurred under great resistance from the Church of Officials. As long as the official church had gripped the development, there was little discussion about separating state and church. It's probably 127 other years, I think, since the Stortinget first got a proposal to separate state and church, but of course it got little excitement. After the war, the theme has been up several times - and through various investigations. We've gone from being a homogeneous society to a pluralistic one. Religious diversity is great. Linking one religion, one religion, to the state, as the state church system does, therefore cannot be maintained. It has a majority gradually recognized. The state has, as far as possible, practiced equality between the different religious communities. It's been important, and it's been wise. So the time has come to separate state and church - a constitutional distinction. Hopefully that'll happen in four years. What is the result of this will only be seen when the new church law is passed. But I think linking new, strong ties between state and church through the law to be passed in four years will be impossible. For that reason, I think in four years' time we will be able to mark a final distinction between state and church as they have emerged in the last couple of hundred years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e336	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3305]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e352	Like the rest of the part of our constitution that deals with the monarchy, Section 5 is also characterized by being written in another time. The idea that one of the country's inhabitants is, in principle, put in a different position than everyone else, conflicts with the idea of the equivalency of all people. That a king should be bound by the law, but without society having sanctions if the law is broken, belongs, like, not in our society. In our neighbouring country Denmark, this issue has been solved by introducing a system called: ‘The King, with his countersignature, may waive his immunity in a single case so that a particular claim against him is brought before the courts.’ In this way, the king's peculiarity is maintained, but opens up the opportunity to give society the opportunity to react to clear outbursts. As the minority, SV, refers to, Norway has joined the International Criminal Court in The Hague. This Treaty does not allow recourse to national provisions on the immunities of Heads of State or Government and could, in a highly hypothetical situation, lead Norway to consider supplying a Head of State. While the issue of abolishing the King’s immunity from prosecution is unlikely to have any practical significance under the prevailing circumstances, it should of course be reconsidered if a new state form is to be considered once in the future. In line with the decision of the Control and Constitutional Committee, I recommend that the SV's proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e372	As indicated in the setting, SV does not choose to make proposals in the hall for this point. The reason for this lies in the fact that our fundamental starting point is to be addressed in the next debate, that is, what is going on in the Republican state form as a government for the country, and that the question we are dealing with here is implicitly on the same issue. In this way, I agree with the rapporteur's principal consideration of this, namely that the question can be seen to a large extent as a hypothetical question. To the extent that one would ever get into such an unfortunate situation, one would of course be able to handle it, even without the constitutional provision. So our starting point is in the proposal on republican state form, which is to be discussed in the next debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e379	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3305]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e395	I would like to repeat a little from the provoking government designed for the Norwegian people before the decision on state form in 1905. There it was, among others.\t\t You can change the ‘In the event of the dissolution of the Union, the Constitution of Norway was not affected except in the case of the provisions which were repealed by itself as a necessary consequence of the termination of the Union. Therefore, on June 7th, in full agreement with the Constitution, King Oscar could also ask to allow a prince of the royal house to ascend the throne of Norway. Norway is still a kingdom today and has its old constitution. According to this constitution, it is due to the greatness on behalf of the people and in its name to choose a king. However, this right will not be exercised if a majority of the Norwegian people want to use the now-appointed freedom of the throne to change the state form. If a majority of the voters want such a change, then the choice of kings should not prejudge this, but the people should, after new elections, have the opportunity to discuss the matter and make their decision.' The people have chosen kingship, and the monarchy has since had widespread uprisings. This is not least because our kings have acted wisely in the day-to-day and were razed when our country was attacked. That is why there has been no call for a referendum on the issue. That's why I see per. today, no reason to change state form. But as my party trap Tor Oftedal stated during a similar debate in this room on 2 March 1972, there may be other times. He put it this way: ‘I have only intended to state that the system has worked so well since 1905 that there is no immediate need to throw wrecks at it. On the other hand, I do not overlook the fact that the problem may come to light once in the future." Well, that remains to be seen. I would recommend that the proposal for a change of state form be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e416	President! In this context, it is probably important to underline the staging president. The question of republic or monarchy is a political question in principle. The principle of this lies in whether a country's head of state is to be chosen by the people, or whether to gain the position by inheritance. The principle is exactly this, regardless of how the royal family has done its work. We who are Republicans -- let me stress it -- are Republicans in a European context, and not linked to the American election struggle, where being Republicans means something else. Being Republicans means having the principle of having a position in a society by choice, not by inheritance. What kind of republic or what kind of president - given that it should be adopted - you should have is a comprehensive process. There are many examples of countries around us that have presidential offices with very different functions. If we, for example, Go to our neighboring country Island, we see it has a more ceremonial look. It also does so in Germany and Italy. But if we look at countries like Russia and France or the United States, the President has completely different powers and a completely different function. This means that if this proposal were actually to be adopted, it would require a quite comprehensive process - how to design a republic in Norway. This proposal has in many ways a little ceremonial or routine in itself that we have replaced the King with a president. But given that the proposal should be close to having a majority, it would therefore require a rather extensive process before such a decision could be taken. In addition, it is also the point on which the rapporteur-in-chief - that is, of course, an important point and a crucial point - that our royal family, unlike most other royal families in Europe, is elected by the people, in an election, with overwhelming support. They have also done their work in a very satisfactory way over generations, as underlined by the case-rapporteur, and have a deep root fixation in the Norwegian people. It is difficult to be Republicans and to present this principal position all the time our royal family performs its work in such a good way. Nevertheless, we present these points of view for reasons of principle. That's why it's important to stress that given that it was found that the Norwegian people actually thought that they should change state form, it would mean that we had to have a referendum again where the people would be given the opportunity to say in a democratic way that they want to. It means, in the view of the SV and the Republicans, that in that case a referendum must be held in advance, giving the Storting a mandate to proceed with the process that will lead to a change of state. I bring this up with the proposal that is in the vote, but - again - with some considerations around this. It has something ritual over it, yes. But at the same time, it has a political significance that we discuss from time to time whether our state-style is appropriate. If you go to our neighboring country that also has monarchies, you'll see that they are as lucky as our nation has been. This means that we have to a little bit the same kind of discussion that you have in many other countries. In our society, in our greatness, it is possible to discuss this on a purely principle basis - whether you are in favour of or against positions being inherited. It can then be considered appropriate, that this has worked well, and that is also a relevant argument in this context. With these few considerations, I have addressed the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e435	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken up the proposal he referred to - to voting and decision today. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3306]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e445	The size goes to voting in case No. 1-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e469	During the debate, Mr Breck put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:16 [[2003-2004]] The president suggests that alternative voting be made between the proposal of Lars Peder Breck and the vote of the committee, and that it be voted in the usual way, i.e. by using the voting system. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The left has announced that they want to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e530	During the debate, Mr Djupedal put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:15 [[Insertion of Republican State form]] The President proposes that alternative voting be made between the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the vote of the Committee, and that it be voted in the usual way, i.e. by using the voting system. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e564	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be allocated by up to 10 minutes to the main speakers from each party group and from members of the Government, and by up to 5 minutes to other speakers. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e571	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a full and thorough statement. He shows that the world is becoming more and more convoluted, and that we who live on this globe are becoming more and more interdependent on each other. The distribution also shows that Norway has a very large international involvement and a high level of activity. I saw a look in Bergen's Official Journal that a no trace of a cooling in the Norwegian economy, including. decline in housing prices. The main reason for this development was the look-up of the financial market in England and the United States. In other words, Norwegian housing buyers and sellers depend on what is happening in completely different countries than Norway. Norway, along with China, is one of the major winners of the globalised economy. Due to the huge rise in the Chinese economy, the price of raw materials has increased and the price of Norwegian exports has increased. At the same time, the price of imported goods has remained silent or decreased. These developments have secured Norwegian jobs and reduced prices, which in turn contributed to a low interest rate in Norway. In other words, the development in China - or in India for the sake of the case - has a direct impact on Norwegian enterprises, Norwegian jobs and also on the wallet for Ola Nordmann. Many of our greatest challenges are international and need international solutions. Climate change is a matter that no individual or individual country can solve alone, but that we will all be affected if it is not acted upon. International terrorism, crime, drug and human trafficking are other phenomena that occur across borders and are completely independent of borders. It is not possible to isolate itself from these developments, however much it would be desirable. That is, one can isolate itself to try to influence these trends, but one cannot isolate itself when they affect them. The Foreign Minister referred to the broad commitment of Norway and that there are many arenas we are participating in. Participating in processes beyond the very narrow self-interests is something we, in my view, have a moral responsibility to do as one of the world's richest nations. But this actually also gives us a greater chance to take care of our own interests. Being an active participant in peace processes, disarmament programs, support committees and other international processes gives us access to other countries' politicians and to important international decision-makers - contacts that may be important in caring for one's own interests. Those who want Norway to step down its diplomatic activity, concentrate more on the close things and to a lesser extent take an international responsibility, will also reduce Norway's voice internationally, which may be very negative on the day we really need to be heard. As far as I can see from the national meeting of the Progress Party, it is in this direction that the Progress Party wants to go. I hope that they will be alone in such a policy. Nor does Norwegian industry experience a more internationalised value. In many cases, it is no longer a Norwegian market. Competition from abroad is high. If a claim is made in Norway, it must also be asserted internationally. We feel that Norwegian companies are being purchased or Norwegian production is being moved out. These days we experience that we have a lot of work immigration to Norway. However, we also feel that Norwegian enterprises are becoming active in other countries through acquisition or expansion. This gives us new challenges. Unfortunately, there is almost a daily look-up in Norway about social dumping of those working here in the country, and the move-out companies in many countries experience a completely different business climate than what we are watered down with. There are missing structures and missing legislation, often the corrupt regime that is host country, and often the repeated violation of human rights. This can lead to challenges for someone else. Personally, I am very busy that Norwegian companies are going to internationalise, get out. This is necessary to survive. But I also believe that this is an important transfer of capital, of knowledge, of working methods and attitudes, which in turn can contribute to the development of countries that depend on economic development. At the end of the last week, it was found that Telenor in Bangladesh had used subcontractors where they added work under very unworthy conditions. It's obviously very negative and unsustainable. But what has been good is that these informations have come out, and the reactions and the debate that have followed, I think have been positive and show that it is not acceptable for a company that wants to have a positive reputation, to take such relationships lightly. The focus has been very negative for Telenor. This case shows that companies that do not meet their own or general ethical standards will be punished by negative publicity and consumer reactions. It is good that Telenor takes this into account, and I expect that Telenor and other companies that work and are active abroad will increase demands and routines to avoid similar episodes in the future. The government is planning a major communication on corporate social responsibility. It is good and will help focus on these issues. I look forward to the debate this will lead to. Nevertheless, I would like to state that the companies themselves have a responsibility and must have the primary responsibility for the activity they have abroad. It is they who themselves have to go through their standards and their rules. Surprisingly, what we saw here is probably more of the rule than the exception, and that this should perhaps take us up more, because in recent years we have seen that production companies have moved from Norway to other Western European countries or that they have been out of competition by companies producing in these countries. So it's not just the production that's been moved geographically, but it's also so that one can say that he's been temporarily moved back a hundred years when it comes to employment, social rights, the environment and security. The situation in Norwegian workplaces at the beginning of our industrial period was also very poor, seen from the eye of the day. These conditions are getting better and better, not least because they are adding their fight for better working conditions, and because one is getting new demands from the government. In many of the countries from which we import, union work is strictly outlawed, and it is associated with the danger of working to improve working conditions. The powers of government do not make any demands, rather on the contrary, in some of these countries. In my view, this is a topic that we need to raise on the international agenda. Perhaps minimum standards on health, the environment and safety should be required to allow imports of certain goods. I support everything the Foreign Minister says about the North, and the focus it has. One of the most positive developments -- the years I've been here in the house -- is our relationship with our neighbor in the east. Although there are developments in the Russian society that upset us, the developments in the bilateral relationship are very happy. Norway and Russia are becoming increasingly integrated - in the economic, political and human spheres. 15 years ago, no one could imagine the developments that have occurred between our two countries - from a hermetically closed border to over 100,000 border crossings per year, to give an example. I hope that these developments will continue, and that in a few years it will be as common and as easy to travel to Russia as to our other neighbouring countries, such as Sweden and Denmark. The work on a common zone at the border, the twin towns, is very exciting, and I hope that this will be closed. This can contribute to further cooperation between our two countries. One of the most important challenges ahead, in my view, is to avoid new borders or so-called walls across Europe, and for the sake of the cause in the world. Whether it concerns NATO or EU enlargement, we should have this far ahead in the back of our minds. It is therefore very important to engage and bring Russia into as many processes as possible, and the NATO-Russia Council is important and must be a real consultative and cooperation body. Another country that needs to be involved in the development of the new Europe is Serbia. Through elections, the people have given their support to a western policy. Now Europe must show its visitation time and support these forces. I am pleased that Norway is playing a constructive and active role here, and hope that in a few years' time we will see all the Balkan nationalities gathering within the European structures. Another country that I hope will have a more central place in Europe - not geographically, but in relation to the European structures - is Turkey. I think it's very important to fight another phenomenon, the tendency to put people and people in jail for religion. I'm concerned about developments in this area, and if we can't fight these trends, we can risk getting a new cold war -- this time not between political systems, but between different religions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e607	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e610	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in the statement that the North was ‘a main area of Norwegian involvement’, as the representative Akslingen also underlined. The Minister for Foreign Affairs further said that: ‘The Northern Region Strategy of the Government covers a broad field, at sea and on land, and in relation to other countries’. There has been broad agreement on this strategy, both within and outside the Government, and active presence in the northern regions has been the cornerstone of this. Unfortunately, there is a lot of evidence that this too is subject to the government's inability to agree with itself. Yesterday we could read that the seismic investigations that were to form the basis for further oil exploration in the north have been stopped, which undermines both our presence strategy and our business interests. I would therefore like to ask the representative Aksenssen whether he is satisfied that the Government has now submitted to SV in another case that could have both nutritional and safety policy implications for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e626	Once again, we find that the representative of the Vaksdal has a reconstructed line. It is clear that there is a great deal of agreement in Norway that we should have a broad presence in North Norway and in our area, and there is also a great deal of agreement that we should have a great deal of activity in the field of business. At the same time, it is always true that we must have a balance between what is ecologically desirable and what is economically desirable in these areas. When it comes to oil activity, since we started with oil activity in Norway at the end of the 1960s, there has always been a balance between the concern for the environment, the concern for fisheries and the concern for oil activity itself. That one of these areas - the northern regions, as we know, are vulnerable - is slowly moving forward, does not mean that one does not take responsibility for getting a positive development in this area. I want to say again, this is an up-to-date problem. The government's north-eastern strategy is firm, and we have an active policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e635	One of the most interesting sections of the Foreign Minister’s presentation this time focused on Nordic cooperation and new perspectives on Nordic cooperation. In that context, the Foreign Minister had a sentence that I particularly noticed, because it was so far alarming. It sounded like this: ‘The EEA Agreement is therefore our main Nordic cooperation agreement.’ Since the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee represents the same ‘company’ as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to ask him for help to understand what this phrase means: ‘The EEA Agreement is therefore our main Nordic cooperation agreement’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e645	When it comes to simple wording in this issue, I think the Foreign Minister himself will be able to answer that question. But what is quite clear is that we have a broad Nordic cooperation that is strengthened by our participation in a number of other structures. We now have a security cooperation under the auspices of the EU - the Nordic Battle Group - and we also have structures through the NATO system that make Nordic cooperation deeper. It is clear that what is most binding in cooperation in the Nordic region is the structures adopted by the EEA Agreement - in addition to the decisions taken by the Nordic Council, and other things. So I don't understand that this is a problem that we're going to spend a lot of time on. Through the other Nordic countries' membership of the EU and our membership of the EEA, we have had many structures and common arenas that we can also exploit in a Nordic context, and I believe that is what the foreign minister here refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e654	The Foreign Minister used much of his intervention to talk about Norwegian engagement policy with other countries and regions, and he stated that Norwegian involvement should be value oriented. In this regard, many have raised the eyebrows when they read the World Times today, where we are told that the Secretary of State of the Secretary of State, Raymond Johansen, who is now in Burma and has had a unique opportunity to get the generals to speak there, says to the World Gang that he will not say a word about the violation of human rights or Aung San Suu Kyi who is under house arrest in Burma. I would like to know how the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee views this, and whether he feels comfortable with the fact that when Norway's representative thus gets such a unique opportunity, the value-oriented commitment to human rights is not at all involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e661	I think we should take on board that we have a very acute situation in Burma, where actually many hundreds of thousands of people are in an acute danger of life. The most important thing now, in my view, is to concentrate on helping these people, giving them a chance to get out of the situation that is now. We know that one of the biggest obstacles to international assistance in this area has been the way authorities in Burma have reacted. Now, when a person has managed to open the borders, I think it's very positive of consideration for the people who were lir. And I'm going to think that when Raymond Johansen speaks out the way he does now, it's because one should focus on the rescue work. This, of course, does not mean that Norway is less critical of general developments in Burma, and especially of human rights. But in general, of course, I think that one has to address such issues when one has the possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e668	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e672	As usual, the Minister for Foreign Affairs made a thorough statement with a great deal of tension. And for the sake of order, it's the accession of the Progress Party to most of what's the concrete content of the statement. Areas that are therefore not commented on by our side are not unimportant, but rather we choose to use time differently than to establish agreement. The first sentence already invites the Minister for Foreign Affairs to debate. He talked about caring for Norwegian interests and promoting important values for us. But what are Norwegian interests in 2008? The Progress Party promoted a proposal at the end of the last period, in which we wanted a broad effort to define our interests and give direction to foreign policy. At that time neither the magnificence nor the government was interested in such an exercise. We are now recording that the Government is working on something that can provide the basis for the very discussion of our interest. Because if we're going to know what to do, we need to have a common understanding of who we are and where we're going. We share the Foreign Minister's view that it is important to promote values. The report highlights values such as human rights, peace and an international legal order, as well as solidarity. It is not our task to change the values of a red-green government, but for our own part we would also like to have promoted values such as openness, market economy, including free trade, and tolerance, because we believe that free, liberal societies provide the best basis for poverty reduction, prosperity development, peace and the preservation of universal human rights. Now I don't think there's any big disagreement between us about this, but what you emphasize also gives signals about what you want to prioritise in concrete work, in the UN, in the WTO, etc. Norway is a surplus nation, and we have to take responsibility, says the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I totally agree! But it also makes it important to discuss how we use our profit. Every action is necessarily not as constructive. Despite the political and financial resources that many people envy us, it's about sticking our legs right. This is not a development debate, but Norwegian involvement is often measured by many on the generous assistance. What we record, however, is that more and more demand investment and investment in industrial development. And if we are to be able, with our huge oil revenues, to add something that gives ground for sustainable development, investing in venture capital in poor countries will be the best form of commitment. I haven't heard anyone say Norway shouldn't get involved, that we shouldn't be present at the international arena in different contexts, of course we should. One thing is that as a nation we can promote Norwegian interests by various international engagements, but another thing is that it's right to engage, either to help disaster victims in Burma or to counter the death penalty for minors in Iran. We get engaged because we care. It's a characteristic of Norway, and we're going to grow it. But it must be allowed to ask questions about our broad engagement and dimensioning. I allow myself to go as far as claiming that there are few, if any, comparable countries that have the broad foreign policy agenda that Norway has. At the same time, few countries have such large seas as Norway has, and few countries have such raw materials as Norway has. It must make sense to discuss, for example: whether Norway is served to invest so much resources in its peace exposure. First, we have to be able to dry out evaluating the results of our own efforts, and second, we have to allow ourselves to ask how much resources, not least human resources, are being used on this commitment. We are a surplus nation, but our diplomatic resources are limited, not least in relation to the tasks we have as a nation. NUPI came up last April with a report that included: Taken into account the Norwegian Peace Diplomacy, they write: ‘If Norway is a peace nation, it must maintain a certain level of activity in mediation and organisation. [[...]] Paradoxically, it is more important for self-esteem as a nation of peace if practices are in progress than if there are any concrete results from them.’ Now peace is one of the best things there is, and if Norway can contribute in a good way, we should of course always be ready for it. It's not about wanting dissatisfaction when we challenge this. But a standing Norwegian peace diplomacy is resource-intensive, and discussing how this fits into the care of Norwegian interests, cannot just be legitimate, it is in our opinion necessary. Norwegian involvement outside supports other national interests. This was asserted with strength. However, it is difficult to verify. On the other hand, it is difficult to see that Norwegian positions in important areas have received somewhat greater support in recent years. But the Foreign Minister is quite right when he claims that Norwegian engagement, for example. in Afghanistan and the Middle East are the direct care of Norwegian interests. Increased political contact with oil producing countries in the Gulf is sensible, and Norwegian foreign stations follow Norwegian business, are desirable and welcome. The initiative in Algeria and around the Caspian Sea is good Norwegian foreign policy. Unfortunately, it has not always been the case that business interests have received sufficient attention. As regards investment in energy-rich areas, there is a natural link between business interests and political interests, such as: the climate challenge. When Norwegian involvement in the Middle East is brought forward, there is also a challenge to how this is handled. How do the parties react to our behaviour, and how do important allies react? The Committee was in the United States last week and met, among others. the chair of the European Sub-Committee of Representatives. When he was asked to come up with his opinion of Norway, his first reaction was that he was disappointed with Norway's approach to Hamas. He now thought that Norway had gone beyond what was right, but the point is that he, who is also a democrat, put up with the understanding that Norway had gone across the Quartet's work in the Middle East. So commitment can be right, but it's just as important to know how to get involved. We agree that Norway should not police the sale of oil and gas. It's not Norway that's served. However, in one area we want more politicisation, and these are the large transfers from Norway in the context of the United Nations, the European Union, in the context of the World Bank, etc. We must more actively associate interests with these, not necessarily specific interests in the north, although it must also be allowed to think of that idea, but for example. as regards UN reforms, trade reforms and promotion of democracy. My impression is that Norway traditionally chooses an approach where we pay first and then demand. Once in a while, it might make sense to turn this around. During the coming harvest and next spring we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss the North Region bet. We fully agree that this is an area that has Norwegian core interest. The government has spoken hot and much about the north, also the need for presence in the north is widely accepted by the red-green. The term ‘regular presence’ is used in the statement. To me, this sounds like a down-priority to previous promises. However, it is clear that the concept of ‘regular presence’ is more realistic in relation to the budgetary situation of the Defence and Coast Guard. The question is, are we satisfied with that? In our view, our challenges in the northern seas indicate that we need to move more towards continuous presence than regular presence. It is possible that I draw the word «even» well far, but it does not change the reality, which is that we are far from giving the necessary resources to those who are to maintain active presence in the north. We are very pleased with the broad approach to our cooperation with Russia. We believe this is a very potential, and we will come back to this later in the debate. I will address three issues of concern to Afghanistan. The corruption that almost no end will take will provide the basis for asking questions about how the whole process of Afghanisation will now work. We support the declared strategy, but the authorities in Afghanistan must understand that we expect more in terms of anti-corruption. The second relationship is the exposure rules of the participating NATO countries. Germany, which is a country where Norway cooperates closely in Afghanistan, has recently had to escape a senior Taliban leader, because the exposure rules allowed the use of arms only if they were attacked. When exposure rules thus become an obstacle to peace, then something has to be done. Norway should take this up with the Germans, because it is in our interest that we can operate effectively. Finally, I want the Foreign Minister to commit himself on behalf of the condemned Afghan journalist student who is convicted of blasphemy and who now gets his case before an appeal court in Kabul.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e717	A short time ago, the Progress Party met nationally. One of the most important things, as far as I understood, was to get the party a foreign policy. I thought that of course was very positive. If I didn't misunderstand the signal from the Progress Party's national meeting, they want a narrower international commitment and a greater focus on sloppy self-interests. I feel that Høglund confirmed the same thing in his article here today: lower and narrower activity. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs was about to say, our international commitment and our activity give Norway access to a range of forums and arenas in which a country of our size normally does not act, and our commitment also allows us to meet important politicians and decision-makers from other countries that are once again important to us when our own interests are at stake. Does not the Progress Party see that their more narrow policies can actually make it harder for Norway to take care of its own interests on the day it should become applicable?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e728	Now it's not that it's either-or. It's about what you emphasize, how you put this into focus, and how offensive you bet. As I explained in depth to the post -- I felt -- we're going to participate and engage internationally. But we're asking questions about how far we're going to go. We record that it is said that this gives us something back in terms of national interests, but we would like to discuss this and challenge it. We will point out that our diplomatic resources, our foreign stations, are a limited resource. It shall be used optimally, it shall be used for an active exposure, but it shall also safeguard Norwegian interests. And to find the right balance, it's not necessarily just going from one extreme to the other. We need to find a good balance, but we believe that Norway needs to balance itself on some other track. This is not about a revolution in Norwegian foreign policy, but about a careful rotation of the course.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e735	The representative, Höglund, for whom I have great respect in many areas, and who has very great knowledge -- he should have -- talked about commitment. If there is one area the Progress Party criticised that we did not get enough involved in, then it was the United States warring in Iraq. When you look back at the situation, is the Progress Party willing to admit that peace and democracy cannot be created by foreign mouths or bayonets? Is the representative willing to see that the Bush regime's involvement in Iraq triggered an unimaginable tragedy? And if he's willing to see it: what kind of consequences will the Progress Party draw from such a concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e740	We are absolutely willing to admit - and we have always believed that - that creating peace and a lasting democracy cannot be done by military power alone. Whether the representative also intended to ask if we are disappointed with the Bush regime's handling of the situation and the warfare in Iraq, we have no problem admitting it. We are deeply disappointed. I don't think Norway could necessarily do so much, but we believe that the lack of broad international commitment, and it gets the United States to take its share of responsibility for, has made the situation in Iraq sadly worse than it should have been. We think it might have improved if it had been a broader international approach. The entire Iraq operation has been a lesson for many, including the Advance Party, including the United States. This should have been handled differently. If we need to take self-criticism, we will take it, but we are not here to take responsibility for how the war in Iraq has been handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e745	The representative, Høglund, mentioned in his statement the need to make risk capital available for development in some countries of the world. However, what has been pointed out by many developing countries is that in many cases there is a requirement for liberalisation in order to gain access to this capital. The question is then: does the representative understand that some developing countries say that we cannot liberalise trade at once? We need to build up and have some protective measures in a transition and construction phase before we can participate in the competition with full force and weight?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e750	Now the problem isn't, I mean, the way the questioner here pulls it out. The problem is too much protectionism in most poor countries, too high customs barriers. Unfortunately, there are higher customs barriers between countries, for example: South Africa as it is between countries in Europe and many developing countries. I think it is generally in the interest of developing countries to bring it down. At the same time, we have been one of the most active in criticising for example. The World Bank and their way of operating. We believe that policies to be implemented in developing countries need national ownership. It must be owned by the population of each developing country. Unfortunately, what is forced on the outside fails all too often. So I agree that we need a better dialogue on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e755	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e758	The reply from Ågot Valle to Morten Høglund reminded me of something I heard several times when we were in the United States last week, namely the question: What will Europe do when they can’t blim Bush anymore? Here in Norway we might translate it into: What will SV do when they can no longer owe Bush? That time will come, and perhaps the changes will not be as great as any later to believe. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. There was an explanation of less rhetoric and more realism than I seem to have heard in the previous foreign policy presentations. The references to Soria Moria had disappeared, and the praising of the UN-led world system was therefore also gone - perhaps because we now see that there are some challenges to be faced in the world. It is important to remember that Norway is a small country in the world, a small country that participates strongly in a globalised world, where the challenges facing the entire world community are probably as great as ours. We are really affected by everything that happens: changing power balances due to economic growth and the high energy and commodity prices between countries in the world, the increasing and problematic terrorist and asymmetric warfare we see, with movements that have resided in countries that have collapsed and that do not work today, the climate and poverty challenges that we see, and that will grow bigger and bigger in the years that come. All of this affects us and is a necessary reference framework for what we should find solutions to, what we should participate in, and how we should give priority to foreign policy - also in relation to the basic interests of the Nordics, Norwegian companies and others. So we have companies with economic cooperation with other countries that are increasing every year. Not long ago I sat and talked to a manager for a small business in Bergen. It may be defined as medium-sized in Norway with its 45 employees. I thought they had a very large turnover with their 45 employees, and he had to admit that he had 850 who worked for him in China. It says something about how the interactions in the world have gradually become. Everything affects us like a small country. This means that the need for common international solutions is important. Multilateral organisations are important, agreements are important, and it is important that we, as a small country, contribute to functioning international systems. But per year. Now, today's date is the great distance between what we need and what we want, and what we actually have at the moment. The President of the Grand Duchy recently wrote a chronicle expressing concern that Norway is lulling into a bubble and is overstepping the seriousness of the international situation, exaggerating both its own influence and the ability of the United Nations to clean up. I have read his chronicle as a warning to parts of the left side of Norwegian politics, who have exposed this, but there is a warning that I think everyone in this room should notice. We need strong international organisations, but we don't, and they're solving less problems right now than maybe for a long time. That means that we must not ignore the fact that the organisations that work best and that are currently helping to raise and solve problems in the world, namely the regional cooperation organisations that we are partly members of, and partly connected by other mechanisms, namely NATO and the EU, act much better as decision-makers in these areas. It is therefore important that we see how, through networks and regional organisations, we also strengthen multilateral and large organisations. One of the areas where we best see what we don't have is in the field of human rights. Norwegian and European history have taught us the value of both democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and an open economy. But the lesson had a terrible prize: our European history is also a story of mass murder and human rights violations, among the greatest in history. But we learned from that. We learned in a way that also marked the world by receiving the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to which we are celebrating this year's 60th anniversary. Is it out of date? Or does it have limited validity in other parts of the world than in the West? Someone's going to claim it. But it's not like that. As early as 1948, the majority of UN member states were non-Western. In addition, the Convention on Civil and Political Rights, negotiated in 1966, currently has 161 Party countries. So the vast expanse of land in the world has signed it. Democratic activists in today's dictatorships are just after the freedoms and rights contained in the UN instruments of human rights. Bloggers risk life and health in the world's dictatorships by demanding the same rights and freedoms that have been adopted in our own greatness from 1814 until today. At the same time, these instruments, or international law as a whole, are not a catalogue of fascist responses to all political challenges. The rights of States in international law are still much stronger than the rights of individuals. Unfortunately, the state's right to oppress its population remains very strong in international law, despite attempts to limit it through the so-called responsibility for protecting it. The same weakness is seen in the UN Human Rights Council, which was thoroughly illuminated in this Chamber two days ago. In its presentation, the Minister of Foreign Affairs was critical of sanctions and pressure against authoritarian regimes and further groupings. At the same time, it is possible to read his statement as if Western countries had a share of responsibility for Burma’s brutality and Hamas’ steepness. This is not only a very dangerous road, but also a short-term road and a selective view of international diplomacy. To begin with, Burma: after the ‘safran revolution’ last year, UN Secretary-General Ibrahim Gambari was commissioned to engage the junta in a dialogue on democracy and human rights. It's not like Burma has been 100 pst. Insulated, on the contrary, there was an outstretched hand from the UN. At the same time, the regime also had close cooperation with a number of Asian countries, which are probably more interested in Burmese natural gas than in Burmese democracy. The Junta treats the UN with contempt. Gambari spent several months humiliatingly waiting for a visa, and was then denied meetings with the regime. Aung San Suu Kyi, who has won the Nobel Peace Prize, the Rafto Prize, the Sakharov Prize, yes, most of the prizes that can be won, is under house arrest in the thirteenth year. Burma wants a dialogue? Or has the dialogue worked? No, it doesn't. And if dialogue is to work now, with a regime that uses killing, torture, landmines and systematic rape against its own people, it is because the regime is absolutely necessary, not because dialogue, for example. with Norway, all of a sudden they are going to come to a better conclusion. I wish Secretary of State Johansen good luck in Rangoon, but I do not think one day is successful, unless the focus is on human rights as well. We could say one of the same thing about Sudan: Peace process on the one hand, but in Darfur, the world community has not succeeded. We've had the same parallel to the socialist dictatorship in Cuba, where the Castro regime has put ultimatum after the ultimatum of Norway to cut support and contact with the democratic opposition. The government has been delighted to ensure that the so-called dialogue with the regime continues, until the next time they show up with an ultimatum towards us. Cuba's signature of the Convention on Civil and Political Rights is a propaganda measure. The only political right in Cuba is the right - or rather the duty - to vote on the Communist Party in every election. Therefore, it is not that dialogue itself yields better results than other things. We must have more instruments, where dialogue, penalties and boycott are opportunities. What we have to make sure is that when we talk about boycott and penalties, we just go in for it when we know that we can get the whole world community with us, because if it doesn't work. The lesson of the apartheid regime in South Africa is that it worked because everyone was there, and because so few broke the boycott. The list is longer over these areas. But let me use my last minute, or half a minute, to take up one special thing. It is such that the Government has not notified the Storting of changes in relation to Afghanistan. In all the papers it has now been written that the head of defence proposes - and will be - because of the appropriations that are now in force - to cut off the forces that the Storting has previously been informed about. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]] I would ask the Foreign Minister in this debate to make it clear that the Stortinget has previously been informed about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e795	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e798	There is a broad consensus on Norwegian foreign policy. However, it may occasionally be slightly different. Among other things, in the debate on the US missile defence, we felt that there was a completely uncritical connection from the Right to the plans of the United States, without reservation, from the very beginning. The government, on its side, endorsed the unanimous final communication in NATO, but after Norway had actively participated in influencing the text and having been impressed by important formulations on disarmament and non-proliferation. As NATO members, we must also have critical comments, address matters and cooperate with others in a process until we come to a final product. It seems that the Right does not see this need, and that the Party just adheres to what the United States is doing initially. Does the Right not see that there may be a need to be critical and to participate in influencing a final product also in NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e808	It was a very special story story representative Marit Nybakk now gave, both about the government's treatment of the U.S. rocket shield and about other parties' attitude to it. The situation is that on the basis of the Soria Moria Declaration, where they said no to a NATO missile shield, there has been an ongoing debate between the government parties to distance themselves from this missile shield. The Minister of Defence has not only had critical remarks. She has given quite clear notice that there has been a disagreement in this at previous Minister of Defence meetings, and she has said that she has stood alone about it. We can discuss the consequences and go into an analysis of the consequences of launching a rocket shield, and the question is whether they are desirable or not desirable. The starting point for this was a government that gave signals that you were actually going to veto something within NATO, not that you were just going to influence a text. It's the story of how the debate has been around this -- not Marit Nybakk's history.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e817	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e820	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good and thorough presentation. It shows that this government is using the opportunities we have, to take initiatives, to take some steps that are leading us towards a better world. We can't do it alone, we have to do it in alliance with other countries. At the same time, we must raise questions and demands with the social movements, both nationally and internationally. I would like to take the opportunity to thank the non-parliamentary organisations and the individuals who make contact, take initiative, and who challenge us, create debate, and who say that if government and gagging fall into error. For SV, it is important that the system debate does not cease, because it is an important part of a living democracy. It is therefore very gratifying to record that the door to political leadership today is open to these voices. This government has taken some important steps and initiatives. One example is the initiative to get rid of class weapons with humanitarian consequences. The weapons of evil, some call them, weapons as mutilators and kill civilians, which extend the war's frights far into the reconstruction phase. The Oslo process ends in Dublin. For us, it's important that the result is a convention and an incentive for states to actually have to destroy the worst weapons as soon as possible. The case of Telenor in Bangladesh is a clear example of the fact that corporate social responsibility has a clear foreign policy and human rights dimension. As a country, we simply cannot live with the revelations of killing jobs by subcontractors in Bangladesh. I fully agree with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who was also concerned about this. This shows the back of globalisation. When Telenor's share price rises, when the money runs into cash, the price is paid by children and workers without professional rights and employment that no one would have found here. Fortunately, we have had a trade union movement that has fought for professional rights. Our job and the job of the international trade union movement is to support all those who fight for decent work in their countries. Telenor is not alone, nor is it a Norwegian company. That's, as Olav Akselsen said, maybe more the rule than the exception. A few years ago, we had the case of Aker Kværner, who made money on Guantanamo and thus violated international law. When the committee was traveling in China, we met some courageous trade union activists, who told us about the working conditions of the economic zones. None of us doubt the need for foreign investment in poor countries. Then we just have to provide ethical guidelines, and that the countries in which it is invested have the same right to political space, instruments and the right to dispose of the natural resources that Norway had when we were one of Europe's poorest countries. Stronger ethical guidelines are put in place in the main message that the Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed out. Among other things, FORUM for development and the environment has been the driving force behind this. The government listens and acts. The history of Telenor shows that it is important to put in place guidelines that also oblige subcontractors to respect human rights, professional rights, women's, children's and indigenous people's rights, to protect the environment and resource management. Not least, it is important that we have active state ownership with guidelines that impose obligations. In Iraq, we see the limits of the American superpower. Peace and democracy are not created on the basis of foreign rifle mouths. The Bush regime has triggered an unimaginable disaster with its invasion. The result is several hundred thousand dead and a region in fire. The behaviour of the Bush regime in the Middle East shows that we are not served with a world dominated by one superpower's interests. In Afghanistan, the war on terror contributes to the creation of more violence and conflict. Terrorism is a criminal act. Terrorists must be arrested and held accountable. Most people now admit what SV has said all along, even when we were against the commitment to Operation Enduring Freedom, that there is no military solution for Afghanistan, the Bush regime is in doubt about that idea and is still reluctant to seek political solutions. The Administration's announcement that the United States wants to take over the command of ISAF in the south is an expression of that. The appointment of General Petraeus as Chief of the American Central Command, responsible for Afghanistan and Iraq, is another expression. For he has gone into the brink of what is called ‘counterinsurgency’ and thus makes the war against terrorists and rebel groups a task no. 1st@item: inlistbox This is a thought that doesn't hold. If the Afghans are to have their own development, we must listen to what the Afghans think and want. In polls, they show that they are less optimistic about their future. They believe that developments are going in the wrong direction and explain primarily the lack of safety and poor governance. Corruption is not taken seriously. Here I fully agree with the representative, Mr Höglund, who was involved. Those who committed serious acts of war during the civil war are not held accountable. On the contrary, they have provided breast-feeding that makes them go free. This rebels Afghan women and men. At the same time, the Afghans, according to the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies, say that they want negotiations with the Taliban and others who have rebelled against the government. We like it or not, but that's what they're talking about. National Front, the opposition to Karzai in Parliament, is in favour of negotiation. Both domestic and international pressure for wider political inclusion is strong. The Senate resolution of May last year on negotiations is in power. What is interesting is that UNAMA has now been given a broader mandate to facilitate reconciliation. I also read that someone is calling for the UN to take over the PRTs. Even more people call for a new and wider Bonn process. Afghanistan is a complex society. There are no quick and easy solutions here. But these are thoughts that get SV's support. While Israel celebrated 60 years as a state, the Palestinians remember 60 years with what they call "Al-Nakhba" - their words for the disaster that happened 60 years ago. Several Israeli historians now confirm the injustice committed against the Palestinians. Villages were destroyed, and almost 800,000 were driven away and have never been returned. Those who have visited Palestine are upset by the wall that shuts the peasants out of the land, prevents young people from going to school, roadblocks and guard posts that humiliate and destroy the Palestinian economy. The situation is disastrous in Gaza, and it goes from bad to worse on the West Bank. What's revolting is that Israel will escape complying with international decisions. However, the situation is not completely black. There are negotiations between Israel and Hamas. More people talk to all parties, including Hamas. Among other things, Jimmy Carter and representatives of France have done so. One might like it or not: I have used to say that Hamas is not the SV's sister party, but they won a choice that the West was driving for should be held. No one, nor Israel, is served by the situation as it is now. At least it realizes a courageous peace movement and several others. A solution with Israel and Palestine side by side must be based on several principles, including: compliance with international decisions. I find it interesting that former Prime Minister Bondevik just went a long way in supporting these principles in an interview. There is no doubt that Palestine needs investments that can speed up the economy, but there must be investments based on some ethical principles. A new issue that I think should be of interest is the creation of industrial zones with factories that, for environmental and health reasons, are being moved from Israel to Palestine, where there are miserable working conditions that are destroying the health of people in the villages where factories are being laid. [[President clubs]] I realize that my time is over, and I leave to others in the party to talk about the important northern areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e856	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e859	It was probably just a sentence that fell out of the representative Valle's posts, so I'll give her the opportunity to clarify a relationship. The representative correctly addresses the Telenor situation. It is as it is, and the representative has explained it. At the same time, she says that it's not the exception, and then she refers to a visit to China where trade union leaders talked about unacceptable conditions in the economic zone. As I know, Norwegian companies were not involved here. Just so there is no doubt: does the representative agree with me that Norwegian business generally acts very responsibly, both outdoors and at home, whether they have private or public ownership, and that we have nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to Norwegian business out on the international arena?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e866	I can confirm that the conversation we had with the trade union activists in China, who expressed great concern about the working conditions there, did not start with Norwegian investment. It was more of a general consideration. Now I don't think Telenor is the exception. The N.H.O. has called for a stronger ethical approach. They've been one of the proponents for ethical guidance. But I hope that we agree that greater social responsibility is needed on the part of companies, that we need stronger guidelines - the Progress Party can show that clearly when we get the big message that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said - and that we get reporting procedures that make companies comply with their obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e873	I would like to refer to today's edition of the Class Struggle, where the representative Valle is honored with a two-page interview, and where she does not least focus her work on women's rights. I quote: ‘In front of today’s broad foreign policy debate in the United Kingdom, Ågot Valle claims that raising women’s rights and gender mainstreaming in foreign and development policy is her biggest victory in the current period. In a short time, the Government will present a major communication on this matter, and Valle will be the rapporteur-general for the Committee’s work.’;» Now it's like simultaneously with the treatment of St.meld. No 11 for 2007-2008, the Stortinget also deals with the revised national budget. There, Valle's own red-green government is proposing to reduce the appropriations for women's rights and gender equality by 16.5 million. kr. The question then is whether Valle's biggest winner does not get a certain bismach.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e887	I am very proud that this government presented the report on women's rights and gender equality in development policy. It's actually, as we know, the first in the world. It happened after an interpellation where, among other things, Mr Vallersnes made a very important contribution. What I'm proud of is that we've got the women's allowance back again, as the previous government took away, and that we've put in place the principle that we're going to have both general equality measures and special women's-settled measures, which the situation shows is right. Now, the revision of the national budget has not been dealt with yet, so we'll see what happens to it. But I am absolutely sure that the Government will continue to strengthen the women's allocation and strengthen the women's-settled measures. I hope Mr Vallersnes agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e894	In the foreign minister’s presentation, it was a continent that was completely forgotten, in an otherwise very rich account, that is, the world’s poorest continent, Africa South of Sahara. This gives cause for reflection, for Africa has not been particularly prominent in the government’s policy statements on development either. In the revised budget that the representative Valle has now strongly underlined had not yet been dealt with in the Stortinget - and which can therefore be amended, I had to understand - Cut the Government's Africa budget by 70 million. kr. In addition, the Government finances rainforest spending of 175 million. D from the poorest in the aid budget. Is this not a new example that this government neither powers nor can follow up the fight against poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e902	This government follows up the fight against poverty and will do so in the future. None of us are happy to cut, but that is also the result of the policy that, among other things, is. The Christian People's Party has stood for earlier, namely that the costs of increasing asylum flows here must be taken over the aid budget. SV has not been very excited about it, but it is now the reality that there is a policy on it. The fight against poverty is about so much more than the aid budget. It is about giving political space for action, so that countries can develop their own policies. We must do the same in trade policy. It's about making sure that they can get tax revenue from what they have. This is why Norway has helped Zambia gain more tax revenue and helped to combat corruption in Nigeria. It's about a lot of things, and we're going to agree on that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e909	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e912	Let me first thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. It passes on broad outlines that are wide open-ended. It also applies to the relationship between real and value policies. If real policy is to be real, it must be valued. It must then go beyond the narrow policy of interest and power. Politics makes sense when it serves human dignity and human dignity. But in some countries the rulers seem more concerned with securing their own power position than with improving the living conditions of the population. We've seen it in North Korea. We've seen it in Zimbabwe. And over the last few weeks, we've clearly seen it in Burma. The military junta shows a lack of willingness to rescue the cyclone-borne population. Their betrayal of humanitarian principles stands in stark contrast to the relief efforts of China's authorities mobilized when a violent earthquake almost simultaneously struck one of their provinces. The generals of Burma are about to commit a crime against humanity. I share the foreign minister's reaction when, in his statement, he used the word 'disgusting' about the rejection of foreign assistance by the Burmese generals in this national crisis situation. And the tragedy can be even greater if not enough emergency aid is allowed in time for the rescue of about 2 million Burmese people who now urgently need emergency assistance to survive, at this moment when the Storting has its foreign policy debate. Strong international pressure has now contributed to the generals appearing to provide more assistance. We're not going to let the character of the regime prevent us from offering people in acutely distressed massive help. The humanitarian imperative has the right to drive. Without drawing any conclusions, the Foreign Minister tangentized the dilemmas that we can face in our relationship to - we shall call them - the wretches of the oppressive regimes of the world. Western countries' sanctions against the Burman military junta aim at promoting universal values, democracy and human rights. The policy is designed not least on the basis of advice from the imprisoned election winner and Nobel Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi. But the junta clings to power. The neighbouring country of Burma, ASEAN, has not pursued a similar sanctions policy, but rather a so-called engagement policy. Neither have they caused the military junta to loosen the grip. Amnesty International and other human rights organisations have documented the unfathomable brutal repression policy of the regime, not least against minorities. The army's conduct, with clean slaughterings and systematic rapes of women, is one of the worst things we can find in our time. The responsibility of the military dictatorship for refusing to release the necessary assistance must be borne by the generals of Burma itself. It is wrong to give international actors working for democracy and human rights, co-responsibility for the machinations of the generals and irresponsibleness. I therefore responded when, after the cyclone disaster, I heard that the State Council of Solheim in the media almost handed out a joint responsibility to countries that had sanctions against the Burma regime. By the way, it is surprising that an SV State Council is constantly arguing against the use of sanctions, while its own party has run campaigns for boycott by the only democracy of the Middle East. If I was to give advice in all modesty, it had to be that you clean up your own house first. As far as I understand, Norwegian Burma policy is firm. That's good. One moment, however, I would like to underline. Should international pressure to influence such storking regimes function, it is important that as much coordinated international action as possible is taken. That's why I'm a little surprised at the information that comes out in the VG today, that the government has not intended to bring up human rights with the rulers of Burma when they get them in talk. That should be explained to the Foreign Minister by the Stortinget. The same requirement for coordinated international action applies in the efforts to influence extreme movements that stand in the way of international or local peace processes. In the international efforts to facilitate peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, the government unfortunately got to play Norway a little beyond the sideline by breaking out of the Quartet consensus line and making political contact at the top level with Hamas. I believe that has weakened Norway's role. But others have taken the driving responsibility. Last fall, the United States started the Annapolis process. Condoleezza Rice is now running a shuttle diplomacy to the Middle East. As the Foreign Minister said, the United States was late, but powerful. At that point, we agree. The objective of these negotiations is very ambitious. It is in short to reach agreement on a solution to the remaining conflict issues between Israel and the Palestinians during this year, 2008. A number of conditions make it uncertain whether that target is being reached, but at least the experiment deserves whole-hearted Norwegian support. It also does the dawning process of a peace agreement between Israel and Syria. I myself was in Israel a short time ago and got a fresh impression of the attitude both on the Israeli and Palestinian sides. Optimism was sober. Both parties can and must do more to strengthen mutual trust and the negotiating climate. But the possibility is still there. The Israeli government is setting up. President Abbas will contribute to a peace settlement. The Palestinian government under the leadership of Salam Fayad is also very constructive. A key problem is that the Palestinians are deeply divided. Hamas, who after his military coup rules the Gaza Strip, is against the peace process. When negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians were started in Annapolis, there was also widespread participation from Arab countries, but in Gaza Hamas organised protest demonstrations against the peace talks. It wasn't unexpected. From the 1990s we remember that Hamas, with its terrorist actions, literally shot down the Oslo process. It is a fundamental problem that Hamas will not recognise Israel’s existence, will not distance itself from terror, nor will it accept agreements to which the Palestinian authorities have committed themselves until now. But it's not just Hamas that is irreconcilable. It is also Hezbollah, and not least the regional power of Iran, which will destroy Israel. With money, weapons, and training, they support those who engage in terrorist acts against the Israelis. The Minister of Foreign Affairs presented a wide range of issues. There is a broad consensus on much in Norwegian foreign policy, and the statement goes on to outline the main lines that changing governments have set themselves behind. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs determines Norway's place in NATO and our need for an unwavering Euro-Atlantic security anchoring, it is not in the opposition that he finds anyone who disagrees, but rather in the government's own parliamentary basis. Let me stress that I think the emphasis of the presentation on Nordic cooperation and the development of Nordic cooperation is important and interesting. I am of the opinion that the Nordic countries have a structure for their cooperation that can be used as a tool to develop both the integration of countries between them and the regional role of countries in relation to Europe in a much better way than we have now. And I think it's a decent time right now. It is about the situation following the enlargement of the EU, it is about the maturity of the Member States - especially in Sweden and Finland - in relation to the EU, and it is not least about Norway's national interest in mobilising Nordic cooperation in the influence of Europe on a larger scale. I hope that, as we were in the debate on the European statement, we can get a targeted government policy on using the Nordic cooperation structures in such a way. I think it is positive both for the Nordic countries and for Norway. As far as the presentation was concerned, it was characterised by the fact that there were a lot of themes that were commented on. I know the dilemma. Often, if you choose to be more selective, you'll get a lot of information. In this way we can well say that the foreign minister followed up the Workers' Party slogan: 'Everybody should join'. But there was one theme I missed, especially because it hasn't been particularly focused on in the development policy presentations, and it was Africa south of the Sahara. I hope it's not that because Norway has a strong commitment in Africa on the development policy side, Africa is not important in a foreign policy context. I think that in that case is an assessment that should be corrected and nuanced. I think Africa is important to Norway. Norway is also important for Africa. Therefore, I must say that I am very disappointed that a government that has had very great ambitions to increase assistance to 1 pst. and, in the period, escalating further, has now given in to pressure from the Ministry of Finance and others to use resources for rain forest management. Rainforest spending is due to the lack of accountability of the rich countries in terms of climate policy, and it is wrong that the poorest should pay for the sins of the rich countries. I also find it regrettable that the Government in this situation is cutting the Africa grant by a total of 70 million. kr. I am afraid that there is a lower level of ambition on the part of the Government than the Soria Moria declaration offered in the fight against extreme poverty. The fight against extreme poverty can win this generation if we target the Millennium Goals that the world agrees on and do our part of the effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e965	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e968	After this article, I believe we can establish that there is not quite the big disagreement between the Christian People's Party and the Government, and of course I am very pleased about that. When it comes to assistance, we share the eagerness to reach 1 pst. Although we haven't reached it, I think one has to look at the crowns and ears, and this is one of the areas that have had the strongest growth. The reason I take a line is still linked to the Middle East. It is such that we share the desire for peace between Israel and the Palestinian territories, and I believe the Christian People's Party and at least the Labour Party sees somewhat the same final results. But I still have a little bit of a problem knowing the history of Hojbräten when he says that Norway broke out of the international community here and made contact with Hamas at the high level. The summit itself says that one of the biggest problems is that the Palestinians are split, and what we did was, after all, trying to follow up Abbas’ zeal after collecting the Palestinian territories. Does it really believe that it is possible to make peace in the Middle East without Hamas being drawn in any way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e975	Let me first say that historically there has been a broad consensus in the Storting, not least between the parties represented by the representative Akselsen and I myself, in terms of the investment in the poorest and the investment in aid more generally. Unfortunately, this government has excelled in the fact that, in the budget after budget, it has slowed down the investment in Africa, which is, after all, the poorest continent in the world. Fortunately, budgetary solutions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have enabled some of this to be corrected. I hope that it will also be possible in the context of the revised national budget. What Akselsen says indicates that. In the Middle East, the problem is that Norway broke out of the international consensus in its approach to Hamas. The problem that, in order to find a solution in the Middle East, one has to deal with Hamas somehow, I entirely agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e982	I have to take the opportunity, when we talk about Africa, to also bring forward the great conference that was held here in Norway on new African voices. It shows that this government attaches great importance to Africa. But I want to go back to a matter that we dealt with here a few days ago. It's about the rocket shield. The Christian People's Party has always expressed scepticism against the shield, but I have with respect to report the missing involvement in the public debate. That's why the Højbrått is now going to have the opportunity to show where they are. Because in the public debate, they've been more concerned with trying to blow up what they think could be found by disagreement in the government than showing a firm commitment. So my question is, does the Highbridge agree that the rocket shield can lead to an increased upgrade, and that there is a crazy waste of resources in a world that has completely different challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e989	The Christian People's Party has by no means had to do anything to ‘inflate’ the disagreement between the government parties in relation to the rocket shield. We and any general newspaper reader have been able to bring this about at a glance at the newsprint in the last few months. But it's true, as the representative says, from the time of the Bondevik II government, we've had a scepticism for NATO's missile shield plans. We therefore agreed to ask the critical questions that the Government did on the basis of the Soria Moria Declaration, which is also linked to NATO's plans. But we were not on our own by Norway, as there were trends in the process towards the NATO summit, when it came to the resistance to the plans of the United States. That is because we believe that we have a responsibility in NATO. Once we have raised our voice, we have a responsibility to come up with common solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e994	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e997	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough and good presentation. The government is active in many fields of foreign policy. It's important. It is a moral responsibility we have, not least because we live in a rich country and in a politically and economically stable region. At the same time, what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says is that being active in many arenas as an independent, clear, and shy nation gives us influence far beyond what our size in the peoples should say. It is part of our expanded self-interest to contribute to the strengthening of the global community through the UN, but also to take the initiative that the community can strengthen its work in areas that are important - I mention peace, stability, environment and human rights. Furthermore, such an involvement is a fundamental pillar also historic in Norwegian foreign policy. We have an inheritance to carry on as a liberating country that is taking the initiative for a global community, global norms and global justice. The negotiations in Dublin these weeks on an international convention against class weapons are such an important initiative that Norway has taken and that we have been able to take on an independent basis. The centre party feels a great ownership of this matter. Norway also has a role to play in bringing countries that initially do not want such a ban. An important part of this debate lies in the tension between a total ban and a ban on class weapons with unacceptable humanitarian consequences. I have to be honest and admit that I have difficulty imagining what are acceptable humanitarian consequences of class weapons. We're not hiding from the Center Party that we want a total ban. The central party feels confident that the Government will contribute to the strictest possible interpretation of the legislation in order to initiate the prohibition process and that the legislation will be further developed with a view to a total ban if we do not get to port now. I also notice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions that Nordic cooperation has gained new vitality. We have increased defence policy cooperation with countries with different links with NATO, and not least the north areas that strategic regions have contributed to this. For Norway, it is natural to think close neighbours in this region. At present, bilateral cooperation constellations and the law of the sea are also the dominant ones, while at the same time we have many cooperation forums to contribute to stability and sustainability in the region. The Central Party is fully in line with the Minister for Foreign Affairs as regards both his description of our work in the north and the content of his speeches to the European Parliament last week. We have a global regulatory framework that covers the conditions in the Arctic Ocean - the Law of the Sea. Norway is also active globally in this field for the development of marine law. I look forward to the fact that, on a later occasion, we will receive a briefing from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on this important work. However, I must allow myself to have some reflections on this new commitment in the Nordic context and the renewed negotiating power that Norway has by virtue of its geographical position and through the law of the sea. If Norway had been part of the EU, I believe - it is possible that qualified guessing - that Northern Region policy had been driven more from Brussels, and that would not have given Norway the position we have today, nor strengthened Nordic cooperation. To conclude, I see Norway with greater international influence than many individual countries in the EU, with the possibility of pursuing autonomous policies in key areas of our security and stability, and with greater negotiating power outside the EU compared to small countries within the EU. It's in our northern areas, maybe the most important strategic interests are in the future. Here it is important that we operate with both autonomy and foresight. Here I mean independence in cooperation with our neighbours and with respect for international law. These are important elements. The coverage of completely unacceptable relationships among Telenor subcontractors in Bangladesh shows the topicality of the issue of corporate social responsibility. I'm not going to go deeper into it, because others have affected the topic-- I just join it. But we must be allowed to expect and demand that Norwegian businesses are among the foremost in exercising social responsibility and have this as an integral part of their management system and their business culture, at all levels and for all parts of their business, including in the supply chain. This requires responsible management, systematic development of knowledge, attention and awareness, which are necessary to be able to act responsibly and decently in such contexts. It is essential to ensure that trade, investment and economic relations are conducted with respect for human rights and basic standards in the workplace and in the interests of the environment. These are global challenges. It is therefore important to work actively to strengthen the internationally committed framework and international initiatives promoting social responsibility. And we need to work to strengthen mechanisms to ensure the follow-up and enforcement of such obligations. At the same time, the Central Party will argue that all historical experience shows that it is important for countries to take their own initiative. Recordings from, inter alia: The Forum on Development and the Environment, an umbrella organisation for environmental, peace and solidarity organisations in Norway, has underlined the importance of binding national rules in order to continue to establish binding rules for business. Experience has also shown that sustainable change can be achieved through improved organisation of the labour market, environmental organisations and local farmers and communities. Therefore, it is essential that Norway also allows this to be part of a holistic approach. The food crisis and the climate crisis are the two most important crises facing the world today. Deforestation, climate change increasing drought and flooding, and increased use of food and water for the production of agro-fuels have inextricably linked these two crises. Therefore, it is essential that Norway contribute to the work of the United Nations Organisation for Agriculture and Food, which will hold its summit in June this year. It is essential that political action is taken to ensure that there is no purchasing power to determine whether soil in developing countries should be used to fill the fuel tanks of our vehicle. This important debate discusses a lot of technical solutions. It's both important and correct. At the same time, the earth is limited in size, and it will be sufficient for all human needs. Therefore, we do not ignore the question of the level of consumption or the question of cohesion and ownership of earth's resources and technology. The centre party would like to welcome such a debate. I notice that while the World Trade Organisation is discussing a reduction in import duties, new measures against exports from the export ban to the export duty are flooding the world over. There are new challenges in the world, new threats, and therefore new instruments are needed. Therefore, it is important that Norway looks with an open mind at the instruments needed by the world, that it takes the time needed by the World Trade Organisation, and that protective mechanisms needed by countries to keep the soil in claim and produce food for their own people are developed and maintained. At the same time, tools are also needed to prevent the dumping of subsidised food that threatens global food prices and local production. I'd like to be in Afghanistan a little bit, but I see the time is running out of me. There has been an incredible amount of negative focus on developments in Afghanistan. The positive part that also exists there doesn't get very close. I think it's important that, in the time to come, we look at the possibility of taking advantage of the outcome of the Afghanization -- less military effort and increased civil effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1031	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a rich and interesting presentation. Since this is the time of the year we have the opportunity in this room to discuss the broad lines of foreign policy, I will also do so in my post. The rug that's holding up is globalization. The Minister for Foreign Affairs points out that at a time of increasing globalisation many framework conditions are established, while others are in profound change. I do not entirely agree with such a sense of reality. In the context of the previous foreign policy statement, in 2007, the Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded that the world lacked a ‘definitive order’. This was not elaborated in this year's presentation, but it indicates that it is more than just globalisation that is the driving force behind the changes of our time. I believe that we must also take on board the fact that we are moving towards a multipolar world. We see that the hegemony of power in the United States is weakening in the military and economic fields, and for the European Union in the economic sphere. At the same time, new major powers are emerging, such as China, India, Russia and Brazil. This affects most of our international relations. This makes it more demanding for a small but open country such as Norway to find its place. While we used to have one or two superpowers to deal with, today we have a whole trick. It is no longer given how we should deal with them. New conditions of power will increasingly help to determine the framework conditions to which Norway also has to deal. This is particularly true in key international forums for Norwegian foreign policy, such as the UN, the WTO and the World Bank - to mention some of the most important. Many suggest that they need to be reformed in order to remain relevant and capture important issues facing the world today. The answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to these challenges is to go broadly. He calls it a'modern real policy' and says that we must 'give the momentum of the new global community of which we are part'. The report follows an impressive catalogue of concrete foreign policy issues and processes in which the Government has committed itself, both in our neighbourhoods and in areas far away from Norway. I agree that such a broad engagement policy is important, as conflict and instability far from Norway can also affect our security. Furthermore, this can give us a voice that is being listened to in the world, which can give us access to important decision-makers. What I'm reacting to, on the other hand, is that the broad engagement policy can be cultivated so much that one loses some of the overall lines of vision. In the catalogue of important international issues and processes, there must obviously be some that are more important than others. More specifically, I may miss a priority and an indication of the key strategic challenges facing Norway today. In the presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, for example: a very good presentation of the challenges in our neighbourhoods, where he well links the Arctic, the North, including Svalbard, bilateral relations with Russia and Nordic cooperation. At the same time, he highlights the importance of a broad commitment also outside these areas. This may not give clear priorities. At a time when the world lacks a defining order, to borrow the foreign minister's own words, the Left believes it is important to point out a direction - to show leadership. I'm going to be the first to admit that it would be unreasonable to demand a ten-point action plan from the Government, but I might have expected something more than a broadest possible engagement policy. I think there are several reasons for the strong emphasis of the red-green government on width. Firstly, it is very demanding to sharpen foreign policy at a time when many of the basic parameters are actually changing. Secondly, through its nearly three years of power, the red-green government has shown that it has some internal governance problems in the field of foreign policy. Norwegian action in Afghanistan, the US rocket shield, the Services Directive and the Hunters' Purchase are a few key chords here. This has probably also contributed to weakening the Government's foreign policy profile and has contributed to the fact that, instead, it may have invested in a wide range of issues. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs presents the broad engagement policy against those who want to place more emphasis on Norwegian interests. This he describes as a ‘false dilemma’, and indicates that the best way to care for Norwegian interests is through a broad engagement policy. I agree a long way, but at the same time I believe that here, in his eagerness to defend his engagement policy, he has lost important shades. In some areas, it would be natural for Norway to invest in self-interests. This is also happening in practice, and we should not give the impression of anything else, either to ourselves or to others. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is himself concerned with this in his presentation, in which he mentions our ‘core interests’ related to energy, among other things. in Central Asia. From this one can derive that we have common self-interests that should form and almost disappear in a broad engagement policy, and other ‘core interests’ that have been raised above that. I hope and believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not mean this. I think it's important to recognise that we actually have different types of interests. This is a prerequisite for identifying any contradictions of interest and balancing them fairly. This is not least the case when we are to balance industrial interests with the promotion of human rights and fundamental labour rights. Especially in developing countries, where Norwegian oil interests are involved, this is of great importance. The last week has shown that there is a balance between the honorary orders on Telenor's websites and the working conditions of subcontractors in Bangladesh. Therefore, the left, like several others, wants to tighten up the social responsibility of Norwegian enterprises abroad. They are flag carriers for Norway and should take on a more committed responsibility for society that goes beyond subcontracting. A striking feature of the red-green foreign policy, as expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is that it is quite harmonious. Signs that Russia is rusting up and has clear major-action ambitions in the north are being presented as something quite natural. Criticism of China is considered unfounded, as the long-term development of the country in respect of respect for human rights is considered positive. I agree that we should see the positive in our relations and focus on the opportunities we have. At the same time, I think it is important to strike a good balance point, as an excessive emphasis on harmony can obscure important aspects and weaken our care. Left supports the Government's dialogue line, as presented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Conflicts and tensions should be sought through dialogue, active diplomacy and all other channels of influence. In meeting authoritarian regimes, we must engage in a critical dialogue where our values are clearly expressed. I agree that we should only exceptionally refrain from meeting the leaders of other countries. Insulation and use of military instruments have been shown on several occasions not to have any effect; rather, it has been tending to the opposite of sedentary or to exacerbate the problems. In view of this, it was very interesting to hear from the Minister of Foreign Affairs that Secretary of State Raymond Johansen was going to Burma - and actually now is there - to participate in discussions with the authorities on the emergency work there. I really wish him luck and hope that help will soon come to all the distressed Burmese, and that the question of human rights is not put in a drawer. But if this is added to a change in Norwegian Burma policy, I expect that we will be kept constantly informed about this in the bodies of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1078	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1081	I didn't really intend to take a line, but I'm doing it since we're again hearing from the opposition accusing of disagreements in the government. I am amazed that this comes from a party that is talking in other contexts about the importance of the public debate. Is it terrible that there are discussions between three parties in such an important area as foreign policy? Isn't it good to find out that these are discussions? I had expected something else from the left. But it's symptomatic of the opposition: when the Minister of Foreign Affairs comes to the Storting, this is what it's all about, and not their own foreign policy issues. So I want to take the opportunity to ask if that Dagfinn Højbråt would not answer if the rocket shield: Does the Left agree that it can lead to increased armaments, and that there is a crazy waste of resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1086	I do not disagree that we should have an open discussion about disagreements, but it must be allowed for the opposition to point out that the government has not always agreed in the back room. It's an open and real discussion. As far as the rocket shield is concerned, the Left has always said that we are skeptical. We believe it is an immature defence agency aimed at an immature threat. For the Left, it has been important to follow up and respect the internal procedure that has taken place in NATO, and to participate constructively in the process of finding consensus in the alliance on this matter. I have noticed that in NATO there was an agreement to investigate how the U.S. missile defense can be linked to a NATO system, and that is actually the position of the Left today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1095	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1098	I would first like to say that the main speakers of the parties, as far as I can see, here give broad support to the main lines of government policy, and I appreciate that. One of the key points in the presentation was to illustrate that our close interests -- this in response to the representative Larsen -- are also linked to our ability to bear burdens in a world where distance no longer plays the same role. And then I think it's important that we be able to focus on those contexts. One might say that what happens on the Horn of Africa does not affect the cross-border crossing between Norway and Russia, but is linked to the great increase in the burden of taking on the demanding tasks we face. So I would say that this statement, at my discretion, was not harmonious. I emphasize that there is too little political will to address the real problems in the world, not too much. And if my mention of Russia in this statement is harmonious, I'm not sure it matches the way the Russians read it. I have also made it clear that we are going to use the opportunity to be very focused in our criticism of China. The representative Solberg found less rhetoric and more realism, but less Soria Moria. I do not agree with that. Now it's been three years, and this presentation gave progress orientation in very important areas of Soria Moria. So what we're doing now is explaining where we are in important processes, and that was an important inspiration for making the presentation. The representative, Høglund, is concerned with a point he often comes back to: Has Norwegian involvement in these processes actually served Norwegian interests? We have debated that several times, and he is a proper debater in these areas that I value. But let me ask the question back: has that involvement damaged Norwegian interests? I have a hard time seeing that. There may be something else where we don't agree with all of our allies. That's a very good thing for democracy. But my experience is that in meeting with the United States, they come to Norway to talk about, in addition to points on our bilateral agenda and some alliance points, these commitments: Norway's role, Norway's contribution, Norwegian experience. So in that context, I think there are important points that serve our interests. So the representative, Høglund, says that with the Advance Party, there will only be a cautious turn of course in foreign policy. Well, if he's going to follow up what the Progress Party says, I'm not sure. If he's going to follow his party president, who says the UN is a threat to world peace, I'm not sure. If he is to follow up his cut list in the 2008 alternative budget, which is about 88 pst. cut in support of Africa, 98 pst. cut in support of Asia, 60 pst. cut in support of the Middle East, 85 p.m. cut in support of Latin America and 61 pst. cut in support of the UN, it is not a prudent price adjustment. I, who sits and runs the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, could say that 100 million. On all the issues of the world of which Høglund is the most concerned, namely Western Europe and the North and the developed world, there will be no price adjustment; it will probably be a little more dramatic than that. With regard to our relationship with the countries that are close to us, both Solberg and Höglund are very concerned to remember that Norway is a small country. That also said Solberg now: I must remind you that Norway is a small country. My answer to that is to say yes, in some contexts it may happen. But if we're talking about whether Norway is small or big, let's agree on what we're talking about. We are the seventh largest financial contributor to the UN. We are the world's third largest gas exporter, the world's fifth largest oil exporter - and we could mention more figures - and we have the highest GDP per capita. It is not that we are then viewed as a small country. That's also how we appear in the world, and what we are involved in bearing burdens, which are taken seriously. As for Burma, let me say it this way: Of course, a change of Norwegian Burma policy will be taken up in the Stortinget. There is no change in Norwegian Burma policy. This statement contained a fundamental debate on the instrument of sanctions and isolation, and the representative Solberg said it very clearly: if only someone is involved, it doesn't work. South Africa was another example. I'm not going to take the Burma debate on this now, but I'm going to record that the Burma question of boycott is not the most important countries with it, and so it can be said that the result is debateable. What is absolutely certain is that at least there are very important opportunities to come up with critical dialogue in the regime that this is all about. Let me put it this way -- and that's the answer to the question that the representative Høybräten asked -- that for Raymond Johansen it's now about the humanitarian imperative. We can face the fact that hundreds of thousands of people now will die in the weeks that come. Then there's one priority, and that's to focus on humanitarian aid. But Raymond Johansen brings with him a letter from the Prime Minister to the junta leader who is very clear on what Norway thinks about the principal political issues. But if Johansen used his journey now to run a high profiled round on all the political themes that the Burmese know well, we could give them right inside the junta that says: Don't let in help workers from outside, then it's just politics and focus on it! So now it's about saving lives, and it has to be our priority. Otherwise, everyone knows what Norway means. With regard to Afghanistan - which came up here - I would like to say to the representative of Høglund: Yes, the fight against corruption is crucial. That is why the forthcoming conference in Paris on Afghanistan's development, the design of that document, Kai Eide's role in being and influencing it, our strong commitment there, is very important. The fight for the condemned journalist is a top priority for us. I would like to give the answer to the representatives here and also to the newspapers today who have pointed it out: this is a matter that Norway is constantly following every day from our embassy and also from the Government and the Afghan authorities - at the latest today. We're also trying to put this into a broader perspective, Nordic-European etc. It is clear that such an unacceptable case - if it should happen - will be something that gives the community, Afghanistan's supporters, to follow very closely. Then I just want to say to the representative of Højbräten that it is not right that Norway broke out of an international consensus when it came to our support of the Palestinian elected president's attempt to collect more than 90 pst. by the elected assembly. If there's going to be a snowy group of countries, right, tone-setting country, which defines what is international consensus, I think it's going wrong. I note that France, the EU Presidency before us, is now having a dialogue with Hamas. The Minister of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who was with me in front of the European Parliament together with Tony Blair a month ago said it very clearly: we have to admit that it is not possible to make peace with only half the population. There's got to be a dialogue that way too. So it's true that the United States started the Annapolis process, but let me remind you that when President Bush drew up that negotiation process, he mentioned the importance of Norway getting a life in the AHLC and running it. So we're working in parallel with the Americans here, and we're supporting each other, and that's a very good role we're used to in the Middle East. Then I would also like to say to the representative, Højbrätten, that it is not right that I had to strive with the term «all must join» - a good slogan for the rest of this statement. Unfortunately, everyone didn't come along, and you get to take some themes. But Africa is involved in a lot of the main issues mentioned. In addition to the peace and reconciliation processes, the Horn of Africa, Somalia and Sudan, many of the other areas of activity here are essential to Africa and the fight against extreme poverty. So I'll end by saying that the foreign debate is good and important. We note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in our work on the big business message about Norwegian interests in a globalised world, which Höglund wishes to welcome, the great interest it has in foreign policy in Norwegian society. It's not, as it was in previous times, whether it was about Vietnam war or EU struggle, one big thing that trumps everyone else, but it's a very broad commitment. As the representative Valle points out, from civil society organisations and individuals, the commitment is very clear, and I think it's our job as both government and political parties to get out of this house as well and meet them in the debates. I can then only encourage the representatives of big business to follow our websites about the events we have in the Rebleks series, with important debates, much here in the capital, but also around the country, and where also the representatives of Storting are cordially welcome to participate, because there are lively and exciting debates that may require the whole diversity of Norwegian policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1132	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1135	I would first like to thank the Foreign Minister for the message he gave about Afghanistan, not least about this journalist and the follow-up work there. That's good. In the nation yesterday, the WTO was mentioned. The Minister of Agriculture made a statement that at least I do not find harmony with what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said. There may be a question of a lack of coordination. The Minister of Agriculture says that ‘the issue of customs protection is absolute’. He goes on to say: «We are not prepared to sign an agreement as it is now.» Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm that this does not of course stand by and that Norway is prepared to sign if a draft agreement is on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1154	No, I can't say that. This is one of the same things that we have talked about on previous occasions, there are no blank signatures from Norway - that the draft that is coming is to be signed. No, on the contrary. We need to be tough dealers in areas where we want other writings. And I think the formulation of customs protection, market protection, is a central theme for Norway that we have to go very actively into the discussion about. We've done that now, and we're going to keep doing that. Norway wants an agreement in the WTO. We know that it is going to be very demanding for Norway, perhaps more than for any other country. We must then meet with the ambition that we can change the means to continue to be able to operate agriculture throughout the country. But it is not that Norway, when there is a draft text in the various areas of negotiation, including agriculture, says that this will be signed in any case. No, of course, we mark our views as part of the negotiation process that may come - we do not know - but that will certainly come to the level of negotiation in Geneva in the weeks to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1161	Let me start by saying to the last line change that I assume that the Stortinget will also be briefed on the substance and consequences of the WTO agricultural structure that is now to be on the table in the negotiations. It's of interest. Another thing that is of considerable interest is that we got a statement that did not mention any changes in Afghanistan. We have received a revised national budget which also does not indicate any changes in the strength contributions in Afghanistan. But at the same time, we feel that there is clear evidence from the Defense that the escalation in Meymaneh is not going to be so big, that it will be halved, that there are problems with having enough money for the Special Forces. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to clarify whether it is now such that because of the Government's budget, we are in danger of not being able to deliver what the Great Britain has previously agreed to, in Afghanistan in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1170	Firstly, we must ensure that the Storting is properly up-to-date on the progress of the WTO negotiations. And if it is to be negotiated, we must also have a thorough round of it. With regard to the second, I can only confirm that before decisions are taken or assessments are made that lead to something that may be policy change or adjustment by the Government, we will, of course, within the Storing with it, also regarding Afghanistan. Here, the Government now assesses the overall situation based on the costs of material acquisitions and other circumstances, and when those assessments are clear, we will come to the Stortinge thoroughly with it. It was not an opportunity to do so at this crossroads, but when it comes to preparing, we will of course report from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1178	I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that it has been absolutely necessary for the humanitarian crisis in Burma not to address the most serious violations of the human rights that we know, for which Burmese management is responsible, during the visit of the Secretary of State today. The Secretary of State is now there, and these decisions have been made, and we have to take note of that. What I'm concerned about is how the Minister of Foreign Affairs intends to use this visit forward in the relationship with Burma, and what kind of plans the Government has to follow up the human rights situation on a broad basis against this regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1185	I hope I gave an answer to this in my post, but I can repeat it. I used the representative Højbrätten's words, 'the humanitarian imperative'. That's what this is about. What do you do in these emergency phases that are today and in the days that are coming, to avoid that hundreds of thousands will be killed? That's the focus of Raymond Johansen's visit, of the UN Secretary-General's visit and of the UN Emergency Coordinator's visit, by entering the country. But I also said a few minutes ago that Raymond Johansen handed over a letter from the Prime Minister to the head of the junta, expressing very clearly what is a Norwegian principle view of political issues. But if he were to drive that as its main purpose during this visit, we fear that he would give them into the regime right that says: If we let others in for humanitarian work, we'll just open the political door. We believe that this humanitarian work has one purpose: to save lives. If we do it properly, we can also get contacts that give us new room to deal with the political issues. Our views on sanctions against Burma, and on the political spectrum, are the same as they have always been, and as there is a broad consensus in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1194	I want to go back to Afghanistan. I am pleased with the great effort that Norway is now making on the civil side of this country. It's added that military and civil efforts are going to be equal, both at 750 million. kr. It sends a strong signal that the problems in Afghanistan cannot be solved by military means alone. One important challenge is, as many people have talked about, the matter of corruption, and it's important to coordinate -- what Kai Eide is now going to do. Given everything at stake in Afghanistan, it becomes very important to clear up this corruption problem, so that this money does not run into the sand or become nothing. After all, it must be a very central issue at the Afghanistan Conference in Paris on 12 June. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirm that Norway will play a central role here in actively asking Afghanistan to do something about its corruption problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1203	The answer to that is simple. It's yes. There is an attitude Norway shares with all countries that are engaged, and much is at stake. If we don't get this fixed with corruption, very much runs into the sand. There's a lot of serious examples. We have to make them clear and persecute, one by one and together. Then we shouldn't demonize the way the Afghans work. They work on a very poor resource base initially, with low-educated competence in the central government, etc. We're also focusing on those relationships, and it's doing a lot of good work. But I can quite clearly say from the fact that if we don't get progress over time on this with corruption, the willingness to give will go down, the effectiveness of the relief work being done will go down, and the ability to make the Afghan economy work in something close to expected standards will also go down. So the answer is, yes, we're going to prioritise it, we're going to do it, and we're going to work actively for it in Paris on June 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1212	I see the answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to my last line as a confirmation that there is now uncertainty about our future strength contribution in Afghanistan. The work before the revised national budget has obviously not clarified the challenges both for Norwegian defence and for our international participation. We know that, for example. has been argued that there will be problems with enough flight hours for the Norwegian Air Force. It is not safe to maintain the certificates with the appropriations for training that are currently available. My question in this context is: Would it be appropriate for the Government not to follow up what has been reported to NATO and what has previously been approved in the Storing of Military Contributions to Afghanistan? Would it be appropriate to adjust down on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1219	I have not brought forward any uncertainty about Norwegian strength contributions. As Solberg's representative knows, they've gone up and down somewhat, because rollouts, crews at the different places -- they've been between 500 and 700 -- have turned something. But we have to make assessments of this effort in the light of what others are doing with their capabilities -- we have the Germans notified of a reduction in the rapid reaction force in Mazar-e-Sharif -- and these relationships between themselves. When we have a conclusion on this, we will, of course, report it back to Stortinget. No Norwegian messages have been given to NATO, as far as I am informed, about changes to what we have already notified. If so, the Storting will be orientated in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1224	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1227	The Minister of Foreign Affairs spent a lot of time on our relationship with Russia in the presentation, claiming that this relationship continues to be a major axis of Norwegian north-eastern politics. He further claimed that Russia now appears to be a self-conscious country with high energy revenues seeking respect as a regional and international actor. After the collapse of communism, Russia has been in a very difficult economic period for several years, with a high unemployment rate and a high level of poverty. The economic crisis in 1998 became a turning point in this direction, and economic developments in the country have been very positive in the last ten years. The most positive studies show that the proportion of the population that can be characterised as poor is reduced from 35 pst. to 11 pst. during this period. Russians most are largely satisfied with the state of things. They are now paid both wages and pensions, which they received very irregularly over several years. Economic developments in Russia also make defence more renewed and reactivated. This means that we too are increasingly experiencing Russian presence in our neighbourhoods from the Norwegian side, which we also need to get used to. It's just to point out what the Russian ambassador said when he was called in to the Icelandic Ministry of Foreign Affairs after a series of nearby overflights: 'Get used to it', was his brief comment. Positive economic developments also mean that ordinary Russians rarely require either change or political influence. After two presidential periods with Putin, you are largely satisfied with the state of things and want more of the same medicine. It was therefore no surprise, as the Foreign Minister also mentioned, that the presidential candidate recommended by Putin was elected during the presidential elections in March. I had the pleasure of being one of the Council of Europe's observers before and during both the Duma elections in December and the Presidential elections in March. I'm not going to say that everything went right in these elections, but I'm convinced that the election result largely reflects the will of the Russian people. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the political system in Russia still lacks, inter alia: for freedom of expression. There are still many examples of harassment of political oppositionals in Russia and lack of access to the press for critics of government. Most TV channels are close to the authorities, and they don't do exactly what we call critical journalism in the West. However, there are signs of improvement in this area, all three presidential candidates who opposed Medvedev admitted before the presidential elections. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we are going to take President Medvedev seriously when he says that his biggest task is to anchor the rule of law. I hope he will keep his promises from the election campaign to work actively to combat corruption in the country. Our relationship with Russia is now better than ever. Trade with the country is significant and increasing. Never before have we had more border crossings. We share the Government's vision that the Norwegian-Russian border can become a common European frontier, without unnecessary obstacles to the movement of persons, goods and services, and we therefore hope that work on obtaining visa freedom will be given priority in the future. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned in the presentation the frequent contact he had with the Russian authorities. He also mentioned that messages from Chechnya continue to bear bids for serious violations of human rights. These abuses, in addition to the lack of freedom of expression and the press, are totally unacceptable to a country that is a member of the Council of Europe and will be more closely integrated into the world community. I would therefore strongly recommend to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that, in his frequent contacts with the Russian authorities, he never let the chance go away to point this out. Respect for fundamental human rights must be an absolute minimum requirement to become a member of the international good company.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1246	The starting point for the Foreign Minister’s statement is that there is a link between Norwegian security policy interests and the challenges facing the world society in terms of both poverty, climate, conflict and instability. That is why we are active, so we are taking important initiatives. Norway shows commitment and presence, and does it based on our values, values such as solidarity, human dignity, equality and an international legal order. These are values that go hand in hand with community, security and well-being. Can I add that the political struggle for these values really can never end, whether we're talking about a decent working life in Bangladesh, in China, anywhere, the right to work, or the right to live up and not die of hunger or AIDS until you're five years old, the right to put children into the world without dying in a rage. Our international commitment must aim at a global world order, as our pioneers in their time also created a national welfare society. Following the initiative of the Prime Minister, Norway has taken on a special responsibility for the UN’s thousand-year targets of child mortality and molestation. Yes, we contribute $1 billion over ten years and have created an international alliance to achieve these goals. Work to achieve the Millennium Goals is a high priority. We are also active in key parts of global climate work. Climate change challenges and climate change may be the biggest threat the world is facing today. And, of course, the poorest are the hardest hit. At the same time, they are the worst equipped to meet them. Today, there are more refugees from climate change than from wars and armed conflicts. In Arctic regions, climate change is dramatic and can change the life base for both humans and animals. Climate problems need to be addressed globally through political, economic and technological cooperation. Climate change can only succeed if it becomes a global challenge. Our development policy climate action plan covers four areas of activity. It is sustainable management of biodiversity and natural resources, it is management of water resources and sanitation, it is climate change and access to clean energy, and it is environmental taxes. Norway is also aiming at creating systems that combine money transfer with measurable measures. We need to contribute to the development of robust local organisations, appliances and administrative regimes that can absorb and make use of financial contributions in order to manage the rainforest and ensure biodiversity. An area in which Norway is really heading is related to disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation. Norway has worked actively to secure the Non-Proliferation Agreement and the Non-Proliferation Regime. Here, as we know, the forthcoming supervisory conference in 2010 will be very important. In 2005, Norway was given responsibility for leading a seven-country group on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. The seven-country group works, among others: developing unbundling measures for non-proliferation and recommendations to create a new movement for disarmament. This group may become entirely central, in fact, in order to achieve concrete results at the next supervisory conference. I would like to commend both the current Minister for Foreign Affairs and the previous Minister for Foreign Affairs for the work done in this particular seven-country group. The composition of it makes it interesting, among other things. The United Kingdom is a member of this group. In NATO, Norway has taken the initiative, together with Germany, to strengthen disarmament. There is reason to commend the Government here too for a breakthrough in the final communication from Bucuresti on a stronger NATO effort for disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation. Let me also commend the class bombing initiative, where negotiations are under way in Dublin these days. In the end, Norwegian foreign policy will take care of Norwegian interests in a rapidly changing world and contribute to global warming and justice. There is broad agreement on most of the Norwegian foreign policy. In fact, this consensus is broader than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1276	Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre has asked for the floor to clarify a manifest misunderstanding and is given the floor under the second paragraph of Section 37 of the Rules of Procedure, and has a speaking time of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1279	It's very short -- the way I formulated myself about the letter from the prime minister to the junta speaker in Burma. The focus of this is to open the way for Raymond Johansen's visit with the humanitarian purpose. So it's not a letter that has a political agenda - I think I put it this way - but it's a letter that emphasizes the urgent need now for the leader of Burma to open up so that foreign aid agents and auxiliary workers can come in. Then we shall ensure, along all channels, that Burmese leadership knows very well - they already do - what Norway's views are on the development of democracy, dialogue, respect for human rights, an opportunity I will also use. But I think I put it in such a way that it might raise doubts about what that letter contained, and I hope it is now resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1285	The President thanks for the clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1288	Two days ago, Thomas L. Friedman in The New York Times commented on the debate on which of the US enemies the next president should speak to. He concludes that there may be a tough discovery that so few really are waiting for a phone from the White House, and that the reason is marked changes in global power conditions. What's going on? After 9/11, the West has been highly focused on counter-terrorism, but neglected a renewed energy policy. Continued oil dependence coupled with conflict in some of the world’s most important oil-producing areas has contributed to the rapid blossoming of a group of petro-authoritarian countries, such as Venezuela, Russia and Iran, where increasing oil revenues give strong ambitions to change global power conditions. That money gives power is old wisdom. During a congress hearing last week, it was said that with an oil price of $200 the barrel OPEC could theoretically buy the Bank of America with the value of a month's production, Apple Inc. after a week and General Motors after just three days. The editor of Newsweek International, Fareed Zechariah, recently published the book The Post-American World, which describes how countries like China, India, Brazil and others create a new world in which many countries are slowly elevated to the economic standard of the West, but also self-confidence. India's 18 news channels give completely different perspectives than its Western media counterparts. Gradually, trust is built in their own interpretations and representations, which of course assumes that they themselves, not the West, are in the center. The best in the new world are working hard, saving and thinking long-term, says Zechariah and concludes: they've learned from us, and they can play. Competition is getting tougher in the future. We need political strategies for how to deal with them. That the world evolves in a more multipolar direction, was also a topic during the human rights debate we had here in the hall on Tuesday. Regardless of different scenarios, it is important that neither we in the West nor the countries of the new world are isolated, but that one maintains arenas for international dialogue. We need to do that task without going along with our own values, not least to contribute to strengthening human rights and democratic development globally. In this work I am still sure that the people of the countries concerned are on our side. During the inter-pelling debate on 7 February this year, on the Western co-responsibility for the anti-Western positions we are facing in the Middle East, it was also a point to encourage moderate and reformative forces in these countries to develop on their own premises, where efforts must be made to promote mutual tolerance. One would think that the newly-ruined oil countries in the Middle East could provide ground for a middle class with growing interest in reforms of political and civil rights. Unfortunately, it doesn't look so bright. On 20 May, a Bahrain bank manager explains to the Financial Times that inflation and lack of allocation policies are important factors, and concludes: «The oil tree of the past five years has killed the middle class.» Instead of using economic profits to build their own societies, the Gulf countries prefer to send money abroad, and we regularly read in international press about agreements with India and China that combine large-scale investments with long-term petro deliveries. At the same time, India established in April the India-Africa Forum, following the pattern of the China-Africa Cooperation Forum, and plans to increase project investment in Africa to 5.4 billion US dollars by next year, under the goal of becoming a close partner for Africa's recovery, as they say, as a minor variant of China's policy. Apolar or multipolar: The world is beginning to look quite different, and it is obviously making new demands on our foreign policy. So what do I subtract from this? First of all, everyone needs to know what values we stand for, and second, that we're heard more clearly if we're part of a common choir. The West will increasingly meet strong regional parties. Then it's equally important that we are aware of who shares our values, and anchor ourselves committed to where we belong. This is a main line in foreign policy Right we want to take the consequences of more clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1323	After 18 days, the regime in Burma also found out that it might be worth marking the disaster that has occurred in the country. It is probably also a symptom of how the authorities in general have behaved after the cyclone hit the population of Burma. Thus, in essence, the people of Burma face both a humanitarian disaster and a political disaster, which they must now suffer. Just to give some numbers, it is now suggested that up to 200,000 people may have died as a result of the cyclone, and that a much higher number than the official number of 134 000 is dead or missing. After two weeks, only one fifth of those who need it have received some help. How many people have lost their lives because the junta has refused to help the outside world, we'll hardly know. But it can get worse. The risk of outbreaks of serious epidemics increases for each day that goes without access to clean drinking water, which is necessary to avoid such epidemics. The lack of food is becoming acute. And this happens in a country that was already before the cyclone was in a serious crisis. In neighboring Thailand, there are now estimated to be about 2 million Burmese refugees. They have left their homeland either because of war and persecution or because they were simply unable to give birth and their families. The UN has for several years warned that Burma is on the verge of a major humanitarian crisis. The crisis is solely due to the junta's long misrule, because Burma is, in fact, a country rich in natural resources. General Tan Shwe's scrolls are also worth attaching to. Burma has been known for many years for the widespread use of forced labour by the junta, for the recruitment of child soldiers by the army, and for the rape of women and girls by soldiers, as part of the war against ethnic minorities in the country. It should therefore be a cross of thought that the world has yet to find reason to intervene to a greater extent than has been done. Then we have noted that State Secretary Raymond Johansen is today in Burma. I understand that the letter now referred to by the Minister of Foreign Affairs is an introduction letter and a courtesy letter and nothing more than that. In that case, it is contrary to the message that went out on NTB yesterday, I think, that one in the letter should also draw attention to the human rights situation. That is, to the extent that it is clear. The Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to the Højbrätten's statement on the moral imperative, and said that the time might now have come to look first and foremost at the humanitarian situation. But to the extent that Norway and other countries now really show - and that you do - that you are willing to stand up to remedy a tragic situation, you can also see that time should also be in front of Burma's junta to look a little longer than they have so far done, and that other countries' attitudes also have a moral imperative in themselves, to the extent that they are willing to see themselves and their own situation. Because it's a fact that their actions make the country's population suffer far more than it would otherwise have been. I think it is interesting that France's Foreign Minister, Bernard Kouchner, refers not only to the 2005 decision to be able to intervene in specific situations, but also to the 1988 United Nations opinions that a country that does not have the power to provide its own citizens with security in the event of a humanitarian disaster can call for the outside world to intervene. So there are many political imperatives to think about in the incredibly tragic situation that is now unfolding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1344	The major common challenges we face - climate change, poverty control, international terrorism and crime - have one thing in common: they all require stronger and more committed cooperation between countries. We have many of the tools we need. We have a lot of knowledge about what needs to be done. What is missing is the political will to do what is necessary. This applies, as pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, not least to the willingness to enable the international governing bodies to act effectively. A number of international bodies have been built over 50 years, with the United Nations system at the centre, which has contributed, and which will contribute to building a better organised world, built on the principles, human rights and democracy of the rule of law - a network of cooperation bodies and mechanisms that enable both common challenges and conflicts to be resolved through interaction and cooperation rather than through conflict and war. For Norway, this has united the two pillars of our foreign policy - interest policy and engagement policy. We've been an active and committed supporter of a better organized world. However, if this building works are to be further developed in order to be able to find forward-looking solutions, we must also show a stronger willingness to state more of the narrow self-interest. We and other countries must be willing to give up more of our formal sovereignty in favour of a common capacity for action that can provide real answers to common problems. It's about our positions in the WTO negotiations, which have to get out of the dead water. What is happening now is that there is a race for bilateral free trade agreements, and we see worrying signs of isolationism in American politics. Western countries must declare their privileges in terms of influence in the UN and other bodies. The large, populous countries, whose economies have a stronger and stronger impact on the world economy, must gain their legal weight in forums where decisions can be made. If not, they will not become an integrated and active participating partner in the community. Without them, we do not get international bodies with determination and implementation. It is here in Europe that we have reached the highest level of ability to develop close and committed cooperation between countries. Tomorrow, the beginning of what is today EU cooperation will be marked at a large conference in The Hague. It's been 60 years since many of the forward-looking leaders of the day gathered to The Congress of Europe. It was the beginning of what has since evolved into a more than 50 years of success story, where war and conflict have been replaced by cooperation and interaction. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, EU cooperation is the most important regional decision-making area in our world. At the same time, these are our most important cooperation venues - economic and security policy. That is why we have also used a lot of energy to connect to the European cooperation project, even though we have not chosen the usual route of membership. The fact that we have chosen this special form of participation has, as pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, made it difficult for Norway to have access to the decisions in a number of contexts. It is the policy of interest that has led us to connect to the European cooperation area each time cooperation is extended to new areas. We should now discuss whether the engagement policy pillar in our foreign policy should lead to a stronger commitment to the cooperation arena that is our most important, both in terms of our economic and security interests, but also in terms of the opening up and penetration of the values we want to promote in this world. Because it is our European neighbours who are the closest to helping to make these values effective in building a better organized world, and not least a better world for the billions of people who still lack so much to feel secure for tomorrow. If I understood the representative Samuelsen correctly, he thought that if Norway had been a member of the EU, our north-eastern policy would be determined in Brussels. If that were true, I understand that Samuelsen is against Norwegian EU membership, but what we are trying to do is get the EU countries and the EU as a system interested in our north-eastern policy. We are trying to make them understand that the Northern Region policy in Europe does not stop at Schleswig-Holstein. We take with us all the foreign ministers and parliamentarians we can, as far north as we can. It's a sign that, on the contrary, it would have been so that we had support players in the work we do up there that fan so far. So if that's why Samuelsen's representative is against the EU, I would recommend him find other arguments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1361	The Foreign Minister had a very comprehensive and good orientation for Stortinget last Tuesday. I am not surprised that the northern regions were particularly focused on the presentation, because we all know the burning commitment of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the northern regions, and because we have a government that has set the northern areas on the agenda clearer than any previous government. The Soria Moria Declaration clearly states that the northern regions are Norway's most important strategic area of activity in the coming years. The Soria Moria Declaration also states that the North has gone from being a security area to becoming an energy policy centre and an area of major environmental policy challenges. These formulations are now followed up by the Government on a case-by-case basis, which has also created a great deal of interest in our neighbouring countries and in countries further away. Most of us are concerned that the activity in the northern regions will give a new boost to the region and that it will result in increased nutrient development and settlement. If we are to achieve this, infrastructure needs to be strengthened, especially in the area of transport, including the issue of rail development in the north, as soon as possible, on the agenda. This is of greatest importance both for business, housing and the environment and for the northern regions as a whole. It is essential to have a reasonable balance between increased activity and environmental considerations. I see clearly that new ice-free areas can provide new opportunities, but here we also have to bring with us the environmental consequences. That is why it is so important that we have strong and good cooperation with other countries, especially Russia, on the challenges and opportunities ahead of us. I support the Government's vision that the Norwegian-Russian border must become a common European border, without unnecessary obstacles to the movement of persons, goods and services. This will strengthen the whole region and create greater opportunities for positive development. In Northern Norway there is greater and greater satisfaction with the investment in the northern regions, but it is imperative that the northern regions should not become an area solely for branches and guest appearances, but become an area where businesses and organisations can have their head office and management. In this context, too, I think that the government is leading well, among other things. with its proposal for a long-term defence plan. There is a clear North Area Initiative when the Government now proposes that important parts of the Defence will be managed from the north. I will not prejudge this treatment, but I hope that there will be broad support for this and for the goal of strengthening the defence presence and sovereignty in the north. I also noticed what the Foreign Minister said about Norway's involvement in Afghanistan, and I share his view on this. We cannot waive the responsibility we have with other countries to help the Afghans gain control of their own country and to create a positive development for a people of war. At the same time, it is important that we are willing to use the resources to give our teams in international operations the jobs they need to do this job. That is why it is so important that the ambitions of the defence and the defence budget are related, and that we have a long-term and predictable defence plan in place. This I hope there will be a broad consensus in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1389	The Minister of Foreign Affairs' positive emphasis on the importance of Nordic cooperation - Barents' cooperation and Arctic cooperation as well as the entire Northern Dimension policy area - confirms the importance of the work of the Norwegian Parliamentary Delegation to the Nordic Council. Nordic cooperation is becoming more and more important as a broad international cooperation, and it is also important for the governments of the countries that there is a parliamentary dimension throughout cooperation. The content of the northern dimension must be designed in cooperation with the partner countries, and Russia is undoubtedly an important partner. Recently, I was in Moscow to discuss with Russian politicians how we can further develop the Barent parliamentary cooperation. It is, of course, absolutely necessary that the government side meet and lay the foundations for development, but parliamentarians must also have a stronger ownership of what is to happen in the north. The Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs presented a good programme for his presidency in the Barents Council, focusing on health, on education, on economic development with a healthy environment, on infrastructure and not least on the challenges of living conditions of indigenous people in the Barents region. It is good that this is closely followed up from the Norwegian side. Feedback on the results is also important. It is very good that there will be simpler procedures to increase the mobility of labour in the north. The visa agreement has been negotiated but not yet ratified in Russia. What is also interesting in this regard is whether Russia will provide Norwegian labour to the northern regions and to the Barents region. It may also be a topic when, in a few weeks' time, the Foreign Minister meets his Russian colleague. The Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs also said at the Barents Council meeting last November that the 4th. The Barents Parliamentary Conference shall be held in Russia. That's good. And in my meeting with the Russians in Moscow recently, as I mentioned, I said that early in 2009 could be a suitable time. I hope this can also be part of the Foreign Minister's talks in the Churches in June. As for the theme, I challenged the Russians that it might be interesting to use the International Barents Secretariat, which is now run by a Russian, to get them to present some ideas, so that ownership comes from within. Otherwise, I would like to inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs that on 26 May, 19 young politicians from North-West Russia are coming on a week's study tour in Oslo - this also as part of developing cooperation in the Barents region. We, who have Nordic cooperation as an additional task alongside the bulking work, work actively, not only in the Nordic Council, but also gradually in Barents' cooperation, in Arctic cooperation and in Baltic Sea cooperation. All of this is at the heart of the meetings and conferences we attend. It is therefore absolutely necessary that we produce results, and I think we see - with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has presented and which lies ahead of us by programmes - that we are slowly, but surely moving towards an even more sustainable and stable development in the northern regions. If we also get the EU to finance some of the projects in the northern dimension, get them involved and make them understand that what is happening in the northern regions is important for the whole of Europe, we have really got something that seems to be happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1406	I thought the Foreign Minister's statement was very interesting, both to the right and to read and study more closely in retrospect. There were unlikely many different perspectives and subjects that made a person have some freedom of choice in view of what one is doing. The debate can therefore be a bit of a leap. Let me start by saying that I think it is a paradox that foreign policy in the public debate becomes very interesting only when he is seen in an internal political context. It's only when one can see him in connection with domestic policy contexts, it's just as if the area is being vitalized in the public debate -- in the media debate it's worth noting. I hear that today's debate is completely different. It's commitment and good posts, so it's not the Storting it's on. But it's just as if you're forced to have a domestic policy shift if foreign policy is to be of interest to the public. It's a huge paradox. We see the same thing when it comes to the natural disasters that just happened in China and Burma. We can't get them as close as the tsunami disaster, because they're distant for us. There's fewer Northmen there, and that's why it doesn't get close to us when it's passed on to people. That's why I think people feel that they should have engaged, but that it's getting harder to get involved. The Minister of Foreign Affairs had a sober, but very useful point, that it is a false dilemma to put Norwegian interests on guard against having a broad global commitment. I think the distribution is good in relation to both of those perspectives. The small states' space of action in the global world is still up to discussion. Not least the President-in-Office of the Council is still contributing to that discussion. I thought that the distribution looked at that discussion in a good perspective: vaccine, climate, work against class weapons, engagement in Palestine and in Sri Lanka, our role in Somalia -- all of these are very good examples of a small country being able to take initiative. A small country can facilitate, a small country can finance, a small country can cooperate and contribute to dialogue, a small country can use the wide range of political instruments to move mountains and change the world. There is a useful and important perspective in the distribution. Simple power analysis suggests that Norway has neither economic nor military power to thwart our interests. Therefore, we are forced to make use of this wide range of political instruments. Global power policy is changing crazy. China's role is unbelievably interesting. The economy grew by 10 pst. Every year and has done so for 30 years. Today, the country owns much of its debt. In the United States, the household debt is 140 pst. of the income. At the same time, we know that the United States has accumulated a trade deficit of $5,000 billion over the last decade. It's clear that it does something about the world that China is so strongly integrated into the U.S. economy. At the same time, we see Russia being repatriated and reorientated, and they are, of course, self-responsive. Here I thought the Foreign Minister had a good perspective on the distribution. I am not going to repeat them, but for some of us it is that while we discussed globalisation, geopolitics arose as a dominant perspective in international politics. Therefore, it is so unlikely that this government has made the northern regions the main strategic focus. Geographical conditions are important in global policy. It is important for interest, and it is incredibly important for the small state of Norway. I'm not thinking primarily of domestic politics -- well, I'm burning for the development of a part of the country with 450 000 inhabitants, but today I'm thinking primarily of the global perspective of the northern regions, this area at the top of the world that has an incredible number of resources, which are incredibly interesting, and which we see getting more and more focus from the world's major powers. It's only when we look to the north that we can easily understand what the security policy challenges are for us in our time. These are not primarily military threats. It is climate and environment; it is resource security in the broadest sense of the word. That's why it's so important that the government has the northern regions as its strategic main focus. That's why it's so important that one today doesn't need to talk to a northerner to be busy with the north. The Foreign Minister is the best example of that. I found that the distribution from the Minister of Foreign Affairs well balanced the need for cooperation in the north and the need to assert Norwegian interests. A good example of that is that it now seems to be loosening up in the fight against illegal fishing. It shows that it's useful. We're not just going to take care of Norwegian interests; we're also going to have a broad commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1425	I think the representative Elvik caught up with what I tried to say in my presentation, saying that geopolitics have come back to life in the age of globalisation. Dealing with both is in many ways the challenge of Norwegian foreign policy in a nutshell. She also said that often foreign policy is relevant only if it becomes domestic policy meaningful, and I read in the newspaper that the representative Højbräten thought it was the most domestic policy foreign policy statement he had heard. I took that as a compliment--he'll choose whether he can live with it or not--but I think it illustrates some of the tension. I intend to answer the question I think Inge Wohnung had intended to ask. It is possible that it violates practice, but he is very concerned with this wording that the EEA Agreement is ‘our main Nordic cooperation agreement’. That's a sentence I'd been looking forward to deepening, and I'll do that. For 40 years, the Nordic countries have had a dream of a single market, a single labour market. We gained passport freedom in the 1950s, and cooperation in a wide range of areas. We have found that attempts to make Nordic solutions in these areas have not led. The defence union was not possible, Norøk was not possible, and we discovered step by step that our countries were economically integrated into a European framework, which meant that the solutions had to be European. If Norway and Iceland had become a member of the EU, I think I would say that EU membership was ‘our main Nordic cooperation agreement’ because that treaty had given us the answer to all the things we were really looking for as Nordic countries. Then it became the EEA Agreement instead, which embraces everyone around the internal market. I think that if we list many of the integration objectives we have had for Nordic cooperation since the 1940s and 1950s, we find a large majority of them ticked out on the list of EEA agreements. There is a reason why the EEA Agreement, or the EU membership - however we now behave - is important to defend. So I hope that I have given an introduction to what I think Inge Wohnung had intended to ask about, but we might take that for granted. Otherwise, the representative Syversen used the words ‘a moral imperative’. I fully agree with that in the debate on Burma. Those words that I picked up from the Højbråt, it was 'humanitarian imperative'. The two are in themselves closely connected to each other, but I just want to repeat that in the case of Burma right now, it is 'the humanitarian imperative' that strikes us. The number of 200,000 deaths is almost unfathomable, and if we're going to add hundreds of thousands of thousands of weeks to come, because the regime there refuses to take on the importance that they need the help of the international community, so it's an "imperative" to deal with it. I just want to underline the consensus there is in this room -- I think -- in all parties and in Norwegian society, that it is a moral imperative that lies on the leadership of Burma in resuming dialogue with its own people, respecting its own choices and respecting completely fundamental human rights. So we need to find a way to make that agenda go forward. One of the things that is frustrating on the French side -- I have had the opportunity to talk to the French Minister for Foreign Affairs -- is that in many ways they have the right in their remarks about responsibility for protection,'responsibility to protect', which is in the frontier country for a country to commit a crime against humanity. The question is, how do we intervene? How do we put it into something that happens to changes on the ground? That's where I think we need to have a debate where we combine our clear value focus with a focus on what works.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1444	It is not so often that you experience government councils that are so obvious that they answer before the question is asked. It was interesting to listen to the deepening of the Council of States' views on the relationship between European cooperation and Nordic cooperation. I don't disagree with any of what the Council of State said now, but it might be interesting to go a little further. When the Council of State attaches the key importance to the EEA Agreement when he says that it is the ‘most important Nordic cooperation agreement’, it seems to me that the experience of Nordic cooperation may point in a slightly different direction. One of the most important developments in Nordic cooperation in the 1990s was the intensification of cooperation with the Baltic countries, which has had a very important impact on them, and also on Nordic cooperation. Our Baltic parliamentarian colleagues, who are very polite, never stop asking the cautious question of how we in the Nordic countries manage to cope as clumsy as we do. The three Baltic countries, which have now set up their cooperation body in analogy with the Nordic Council, and following the inspiration of the Nordic Council, have all been able to join NATO as well as the EU in very few years. It has strengthened their cooperation and their potential influence in Europe. They have some problems understanding why in the Nordic countries we have spent so many decades not being able to achieve the same and the same effect out of our cooperation in a Nordic context. So the EEA Agreement is probably not an obvious good answer, because it obviously does not solve the problems, it rather underlines the inequality we have chosen in the Nordic countries in terms of our influence in European policy. I listened with great interest to the Foreign Minister's presentation. After all, diplomacy has its own language. One can discuss whether or not the Minister of Foreign Affairs is part of diplomacy, but at least he has a special political code usage that makes every time he talks about difficult matters, from a Norwegian point of view, he uses the term ‘necessary’, without nuance or gradation. I would probably recommend him to nuance language a little bit more, to find out that there are some of these challenges that are virtually insoluble as long as we have made some of the choices we have, for example. in relation to the EU. The second code usage that I specifically registered this time is the word ‘real policy’ and in the conclusion of the phrase ‘modern real policy’. The adjective ‘modern’ is used several times along the way as a unique reference word. There too I am a bit stunned. What do you distance yourself from using the honorary word "modern"? What's the old-fashioned option in this context? And why is the Foreign Minister so concerned about using the word'real policy' this time, which, for some people, is a proponent word, and for others perhaps the opposite? Is it due to the desire to distance itself from the criticism expressed by the Progress Party at its national meeting against Norwegian foreign policy in general? In that case, it is understandable. But at the same time, and it worries me a little, this is currently tending to tip over, both for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and not least for the Minister of Aid, when using the real policy intensities to desavow the boycott line that the international community, including Norway, has led in relation to the military dictatorship in Burma. There is no problem in agreeing that it is currently the humanitarian person who has the right to run, but in fact both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Assistance have gone much further by saying that this situation that has arisen shows that the boycott line is generally wrong. Therefore, I would warn against this use of the word ‘real policy’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1459	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1462	The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his last speech that a ‘value focus’ on the engagement policy to be pursued by Norway is important, but also a focus on what is possible. He said it in relation to the situation in Burma. It is clear, at least based on the way this case is discussed in the media, that there have been plans to express the position of the Norwegian authorities on the human rights situation in Burma in general, and on the treatment of the Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi in particular. This is shown in an NTB message that went out yesterday with a reference to Secretary of State Raymond Johansen. Today we have been told that the letter that has been sent with the State Secretary contains no such message. I have to say, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I want to highlight a disagreement in this, because we have thus had an opportunity to intervene, as the Foreign Minister put it. But you don't choose to use this opportunity to intervene, to deliver a human rights message. It could have been done in forms that were suitable for the situation. That's not what you've chosen to do. I will choose to maintain a clear criticism of that. At the same time, it is essential that Norway further contributes to a wide international pressure on the regime. It may well be that the situation which, in all its tragic nature, is now unfolding is the window that opens up to the world around so that with legitimacy, even greater legitimacy, the cause of human rights can be asserted, thus contributing to its release in this hereafter country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1472	It is always satisfactory for the representative to return to the debate. It's also a pleasure to get a text analysis of such a learned person. I'm not going to go into anything other than saying that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is part of diplomacy, so I can confirm that. The word "demanding" seems to fit many of life's challenges, both private, personal and political. I also agree that such words can be nuanced. I will arrange so that in future presentations I will try to create a wider range. It is quite right, as Mr Wohnning says, that this, with real policy, is a response to the perfectly legitimate challenge of the Progress Party that they believe we attach too little importance to the interests of the neighbourhood. It gives me an underlying message that what we can call traditional real policy is that we measure our interests roughly at the border of the country and what is very close to us. If I use the word "modern", it is to say that real policy, which for me is about addressing the real challenges, what is real, today is a much, much broader range. Geographical distance gets less importance, what's far away may no longer exist because it can be very close. We have to have the ability to take it over us. I did not use the word'real policy' in connection with this with the boycott debate. There I believe that the representative Solberg, the party trap of pay, gave a good answer. She says that if not everyone's in, it rarely seems. South Africa is the exception, so it has worked. The UN Security Council gave a mandate, all of them, most of them. As far as Burma is concerned, I describe the situation. There are no neighbouring countries, trade is flourishing, investment is flourishing, and political support for the regime, as it were, is maintained. I just put on the agenda that we also have to go after and test our instruments - it has nothing to do with our attitudes - and at times our opinions. Norway has supported targeted measures in relation to Belarus, together with EU countries. We've done the same with Burma. Nor can it be that all things must work overnight for them to be legitimate. I agree. I wanted to have a debate about the blind belief that sanctions and boycotts work. Then I would say: Raymond Johansen is an experienced person in both humanitarian aid and political work. If he gets occasion during this journey, it will be very far ahead in his attention to address all these questions. Should there be an opportunity, even to meet them on the other side of the political picture, he will, of course, use those possibilities. There's nothing we flag with great attention in front of us. But I think it's important in this situation to get focus on the concept that the Højbrätten itself has used: 'the humanitarian imperative', in a situation where, therefore, hundreds of thousands of people can be at risk of dying. So we have to put a good deal of other things aside from what's in the headings in relation to what we're trying to do during the visit. But once again, our attitudes in this area are no doubt about it. Here, there's a broad consensus in the Storting, and we're doing what we can to achieve those goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1485	I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that blind faith is never commendable in any context. On the other hand, perceptive faith can have something to do with it. What I find a little difficult to understand is the connection between premise and conclusion, both with the Minister of Assistance and with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in relation to Burma. The situation that has arisen as a result of a natural disaster and the inability and willingness of the regime to deal with it are used as a kind of argument that the boycott line has been false. I don't understand the logic of it, and I'll warn you to the end. Doing everything possible in an acute humanitarian disaster situation, without shoving either to the right or the left or anywhere else, I accept without further delay, but I do not accept the end. I do not accept that this is a good basis for a more general debate on what types of boycott are adequate and which are not adequate, which can lead to results in the short term, and who cannot do so, etc. That debate must be conducted on a completely different basis from that. So I just have a little note. I'm not going far into semantics, because that's not the point. But I do understand the word ‘real policy’ in a way that is different from what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has just said. For my ear, real policy has nothing to do with geographical distance from your own country. It is more about the difference between two different approaches to foreign policy in general, namely whether foreign policy should pursue its own interests - they may well be on the opposite side of the globe, of course - in terms of trade policy and other things, as opposed to focusing on overall altruistic approaches of the type to respect human rights regardless of the costs it may have for its own country. Well, that's where that debate gets interesting, not as a question of whether you're going to be most concerned with your neighboring country or with countries in other parts of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1492	Quite briefly, one thing is important to clarify, and that is that the responsibility for the lack of action lies only one place, and that is in Burma and in the Burmese leadership. So no one has to be able to come up with the constructions that external considerations have something to do with it. I just want to say that very clearly. But then it is also clear that there is a dilemma that the UN Secretary-General has not, over several days, succeeded in getting the head of Burma on the phone, because this is a regime that has made an active choice to isolate itself. We can take that as our own debate: what does one do to engage in such leadership that keeps the people in the situation that it is in, and with the consequences it has? I am very much in agreement with the definition of real-world pay. But what was the point of the presentation was that before we had the old distinction where, on the one hand, real politics focused on interests and, on the other hand, altruism, human rights at all costs, while in our world, where we also have to deal with geopolitics and globalisation at the same time, it is this - I believe to observe, and I have tried to argue in the statement - that human rights, values, development and climate issues, which could previously be grouped into a most altruistic problem, which, among other things, is that human rights, values, development and climate issues. Part of the aid policy could find its argument, today it is much more dense and drawn up against what is our interests. This means that real policy is more popular. For me, real politics is not a negative word, not a particularly positive word. It's a descriptive word. The attempt is to say that Norwegian interests need to take these questions into account in a more focused way than might have been done in the past. I note that we have had many good assessments of this in the Chamber, both today and not least in the debate that Morten Höglund initiated on Tuesday, on human rights. I think it is positive for the Norwegian foreign policy debate that we continue that change of words. I can tell that I think this is one of the important issues in the big news about Norwegian interests in a globalised world, namely, to point out that this kind of interest that we could previously put in the category of altruism, is today hard, necessary values for Norway's security and close interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1503	Several have not asked for the word. The debate on substance is closed. So 6 is over. The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement at the Stockholm meeting on 20 May 2008 be annexed to the minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-22.ana.ud1128e1518	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
