ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e43	When large financial institutions falter, when the stock exchange collapses, when experts talk about the greatest crisis since the 1930s, when uncertainty spreads and interest rates rise with it, then it is not just those who value the stock exchange that are worried. Ordinary people, all over the world, become anxious. Even many of us who live and live safe lives in Norway feel this anxiety on the body. People ask, ‘Why does this happen, and how does this crisis strike us?’ ‘What is the interest rate going on?’, those who have high mortgages wonder. ‘Do my kids want to meet their obligations?’ asks parents and grandparents. «Do I miss the job?» asks those who work in the competitive sector. I understand people are worried. That's why I want to start by saying that the government has taken into account the special challenges of today's international economic situation - not just for the Norwegian economy, but for each of us. Before I go into the details of next year's government budget, I'm going to try to give some answers to what's going on, even if there isn't one phase in troubled times like these. The crisis we are now witnessing arose because a creative and underregulated American financial industry has lent money to people far beyond their ability to repay. An unregulated profit tag has weakened risk assessments and contributed to aggressive lending policies, including: built on assumptions about eternal growth in housing prices. The bad loans were packaged with other loans and sold on to banks around the world. Many of the buyers have had to book losses, but so far no one has a full overview of who has the remaining risk. Large financial institutions have been taken over by government, others have gone over. Now there is agreement on a crisis package in the United States. Nevertheless, there is still concern, which has also spread to other countries. Several European countries have put in place measures to improve depositors’ security in the event of bank problems. Nobel Prize winner in economics Joseph Stiglitz has said that Wall Street's fall is for market fundamentalism what the fall of the Berlin Wall was for communism. It is at least a powerful wake-up for those who have believed that the market can control itself. It is a useful reminder of what lack of political governance can bring. Many Norwegian borrowers feel the turmoil on their bodies every day, but most people still do well: We have a good and coherent regulation of the entire financial sector. We have a good depositor insurance scheme, which covers deposits of up to $2 million. kr in Norwegian banks. And because we have a competent oversight that closely monitors the situation, we have a better understanding of what's going on. The Norwegian economy is in good condition, we have money on book and greater opportunity than many others to meet the difficulties that had to come. There are several reasons for this: We have a large public sector, because Norway has chosen to solve the health, care and education tasks jointly. It stabilizes the Norwegian economy and makes us less vulnerable to international economic crises like the ones we now experience. Social security provides us with good income protection. We have a significant state ownership that contributes to stability. But even though we in Norway have made political choices that protect us more than others, no one in a globalised economy is unaffected by what is happening. The extent of the international financial crisis and its impact on the Norwegian financial market and the Norwegian economy remains uncertain. The United States is important for the world economy, even though other countries, such as China and India, are now more relevant. Norway is a small and open economy that benefits from strong international growth. We have sold goods at high prices, we have imported at low prices. We're almost five years behind us with very high growth. We need 50 years back in time to find our husband. We know that such a high growth cannot last forever. Even before the last week's financial crisis, it was clear that growth would clearly be weaker next year than this year. It is not possible to have historically low unemployment, historically strong growth in the economy and abnormally low interest rates at the same time. As the economy improves and unemployment decreases, interest rates will gradually be raised to keep price and cost growth under control. Everyone knew that the guide rate would go up to a more normal level between 5 and 6 pst. Nevertheless, someone has stretched the knit long when they were going to buy a dwelling in a heated housing market. Many of them are first-time starters. On top of this comes the effects we see of the international financial crisis. Authorities in many countries have taken action to mitigate the crisis in the financial market. However, the difference between the money market rate and the governance rate of the Bank of Norway is historically high. It makes it more expensive for banks to borrow money in the market. Constantly high borrowing costs for the banks in the money market lead to an increase in lending rates for enterprises and households, without Norway’s Bank setting up interest rates. Higher market interest rates will slow growth in demand and production in Norway and dampen price and wage growth. These are aspects that Norway’s Bank takes into account when assessing the monetary policy mechanism. Lower growth and reduced price and cost pressures will allow for lower interest rates. Many are now concerned about whether the State pension fund - abroad, or the oil fund, as most people call it, is losing money. When we have chosen to invest the revenue from the oil and gas sector in shares and debt securities abroad, we have linked our savings to the development of the world economy. This principle for the management of the State pension fund - abroad is a broad political consensus. Investments are spread in a reasonable manner, with small holdings in approximately 7 000 companies around the world and in 10,000 bonds. We're very long-term investors. When the global share market goes down, the fund loses in isolation on the share investments. Debt securities investments have consistently remained better in value through the financial turmoil. High oil prices make sure that more money flows into the fund than we expected earlier this year. In the national budget, we have estimated the fund's value at the start of 2009 to NOK 2 300 billion. It's almost in line with what we expected when we presented the revised national budget in ours. Developments over the last few weeks have not changed significantly in this picture. The 2009 state budget responds to today’s challenges and prepares us for the future. We follow the rule of action for the gradual phase-in of petroleum revenues in the Norwegian economy. This is how we ensure that the petroleum industry can make us happy as well as future generations. The rule of action suggests that the use of petroleum revenues should increase more slowly in the face of economic upturn than in the downturn. That's the way it has been. In the last three years, the use of oil money has been below the 4-percentile mark. In the budget, we're adding up to a structural oil-corrected deficit of NOK 92 billion next year. This is in line with the estimated real return of the State pension fund - Foreign for 2009, i.e. 4 pst. of the fund capital. Since we have been below the 4-percent limit for some years, and the capital of the fund is growing from 2008 to 2009, this increases the use of oil revenue in the budget. The deficit is rising by 14 billion kroner. The budget thus contributes to slightly higher demand in the Norwegian economy next year and to the deployment of available hands to carry out unresolved tasks. Our draft budget balances two aspects: on the one hand, to secure the benefits we have gained in terms of increased employment and lower unemployment, on the other hand, to provide room for lower interest rates. The government has clearly announced that we will give priority to well-being and community over tax havens. We've done that in the three years that we've had behind us. That's what we do in the year we have in front of us. We're not increasing the tax level, but we're redistributing. When the growth in public consumption next year is higher than the growth in private consumption, it is because we give priority to health, care, education, community. The construction sector is that part of the labour market which has the fastest impact on the economy. In construction, there has been a shortage of labour in recent years. Now some capacity will be released, and we will be able to solve some important tasks for the community. We started working on a new odontology building in Bergen, construction for nurse training in Oslo and for Gulating team workers' rights, and we warn that the construction of a new college in Bergen will start in 2010. We start building 1000 new student homes in 2009. We promise to build 1000 new nursing homes and homes. We strengthen the system of interest subsidies for municipalities to upgrade school buildings and swimming pools. Many students, teachers and parents have called for a boost for the school environment. Here it comes. We strengthen the system of interest subsidies for church buildings, which is characterised by poor maintenance around the country. We're upgrading national cultural buildings. It is necessary to build a new building, but it must not be at the expense of maintenance of what is already built. Unfortunately, a lack of maintenance has marked generations before us. Too many railways and roads have expired over time. It's a laborious work to take back the neglected. Lack of maintenance appears to many of us only when it is not done and becomes a hole in the asphalt or signalling system that does not work. When the train goes and the road is complete, we take it as a matter of course and do not value the invisible maintenance work. There must be a strong change of attitude and clear political priorities to uphold the values created by previous generations. We started this job. In the opposition, today’s government parties provided for an increase in the level of ambition in the transport sector by a total of DKK 2 billion per year. years. As the first government, we have followed up the overall economic framework of the national transport plan. Now we are overfilling our own high ambitions by DKK 1.9 billion and proposing to increase the budget of the transport sector by 13 pst. It is demanding to secure infrastructure in a pig-grown country with telescopic, powerful forces of nature and people. But it's a priority task, because it's important for districts and businesses, and because it's important for the environment and accessibility. Therefore, we propose to increase the appropriations for the maintenance of roads by 20 pst. and for racial protection with almost 35 pst. Traffic security measures are doubled in this budget. Drivers are always responsible for driving according to the conditions, but we know that deaths and serious injuries in traffic can be avoided by means of e.g. middle parts, handrails, removal of traffic barriers and the development of pedestrian and cycle routes. We need to increase efforts to reduce traffic risk. We're increasing the appropriations for road use by over 1.6 billion kroner. With the exception of projects that lack plan clearance or final financing, all road installations prioritised in the national transport plan for the period 2006-2009 will be completed or under development. The railway has been neglected for many years. We are impatient on behalf of passengers and employees in the NSB and the Railway Agency - and the environmental movement - who will have a train offer that is efficient, reliable and comfortable. It's been a big aftertaste. That's why we're increasing the appropriations for the railways by approx. NOK 1.3 billion - 17.3 pst. The strong economic growth we have seen in recent years, with strong expansion in all sectors, shows that Norway is a good country to operate in. We do not compete at the lowest possible level of taxes and charges or low wages, but at the sum of a well-run society, with high skills, good welfare schemes and stable framework conditions. This will also be our most important competitive advantage in a more demanding time, as we have ahead of us. The government presents in this budget a number of changes requested by the business community that will turn out to be positive. Better depreciation rates for technical installations will contribute to increased investment in forward-looking technology. A strong commitment to research and higher education will make us better prepared to meet the challenges of the future. Historical investment in transport will reduce industrial bottlenecks, and public sector construction activity will stimulate demand growth in a market where private investment is attenuated. We've been giving priority to the municipalities throughout this period. Since 2005 - i.e. in three years - 37 000 more people have been employed in the municipal sector. The comparable number for the last four years before the election is at the base of 9 pst. In total-- if we just took the last three, there was almost none. Now we know that the cost growth in the local government sector has become higher than planned. That is why we are putting forward a better arrangement for the local economy than we have announced in ours. We add up to a real increase in the total income of the municipalities in 2009 of approximately NOK 8.4 billion. Well over half of these are free resources. In the period 2005-2009, the real growth in the income of the municipal sector is estimated at more than DKK 28 billion. In comparison, the real growth in the previous growing-up period was about 19 billion kroner. Never before have there been so few municipalities on the ROBEK list. From a peak of 118 registered municipalities in the second half of 2004, the number of municipalities in the autumn fell to above 40. It shows that we succeed, and it shows that the municipalities succeed in producing well-being, while at the same time being able to keep track of the economy. The most important thing to do when we prepare for the future is to invest in those who will take over after us. Children and young people need values, knowledge and social skills to solve the challenges of the future, manage the economy, solve the climate crisis, fight poverty and benefit fairly. That's why our government has prioritised the entire learning and education cycle so high - from kindergartens to higher education and research. The pediatric effort we can now summarise is the greatest welfare reform in recent times. It started with the kindergarten agreement in Stortinget in 2002-2003. With the Government's 2009 budget proposal, there has been a very good development since the day-care centre agreement was concluded. Let me just sum it up a little bit. 66 700 new children will have children's playground. The coverage will have gone up from 65 pst. to 89 pst. The price will be greatly reduced. Parents with one child in a private nursery pay NOK 2 000 less a month today than parents who were in the same situation in 2002. They save over $20,000 a year. Funding for kindergartens over the state budget will have increased from DKK 5.8 billion in 2002 to DKK 24.3 billion in 2009. That's what we call a welfare promise and a knowledge promise. We have carried out a national effort to ensure that all children have a nursery place. Some municipalities are not quite in target. But now I want to thank all the municipalities and private people who have been on it for doing this in their municipality. There are hundreds of new buildings around the country as clear evidence of political priority. Thousands of new people work in these kindergartens. Lots of little rollers in park suits go out and in from the gate every day. Pleasure parents bring and pick up, and kindergartens are the welfare goods with which users are most satisfied. We've changed people's everyday lives. The quality of kindergartens comes from the people who work there. There's an increased interest in learning to be a preschool teacher, and that's good news. And the government responds by further strengthening its efforts to educate more. We learn the most when we're younger. That's why kindergarten is important. This is why we are increasing efforts in the earliest school years. From the fall, the school day for the smallest is extended by five hours a week, hours to be spent in Norwegian, math and English. Early effort shall assist those who are struggling to crack the reading and calculation code before developing into a problem that they are moving further into school. To do that job, we need good and motivated teachers. The teacher is the most important asset manager we have. This budget facilitates a strong commitment to teachers, through continuing training, the recruitment of teachers and the recruitment of teachers. The foundation for more and better teachers is in place. The school shall provide knowledge. The government has taken the necessary steps to strengthen quality and ensure learning outcomes. We introduce new screening tests to ensure the quality of training. But no one learns in a vacuum. Students are not robots that can only be sent into a classroom, put behind a desk and programmed. Those who have met a forty can sign it. They must thrive, and they must be safe. The students need healthy eating habits and physical activity. That is why last year we introduced a system of fruit and vegetables in all schools with youth. That's why we're increasing the physical activity in school by two hours in 2009. What we invest in school, we get multiple times again in the future. The future caregivers, teachers, bus drivers, farmers, engineers, and researchers attend school today. We're preparing for today's kids to take colleges and colleges in a few years. The university and higher education sectors are strongly strengthened in this draft budget. It is both a prerequisite and an instrument for meeting the major challenges for the future: well-being, value creation and climate change. When the oil age is over, it's this that determines what we're going to live on, and the quality of public welfare. Through better funding, we provide more than 200 new recruitment positions in research. In total, the Government has established 900 new recruitment positions during this period, and there are almost 250 more than under the previous government. Together with increased basic appropriations and better and more predictable equipment situations, this budget represents a significant boost for universities and higher education institutions and for research. Research and development appropriations have actually increased by DKK 3.2 billion since 2005. That's about $1 billion more than the Bondevik government increased the research appropriations in its period. The evening post wrote on Saturday: «We are researching as never before in a remarkable international context». Let's make the maximum of a good research budget. Large funding is allocated to research in the north, maritime research, regional research and development. This is the joint ownership of the entire Government. A public health and care sector is one of the cornerstones of the welfare country. Everyone has the right and access to top competence, caring staff and safe surroundings when they get sick or need help. We are increasing the appropriations of health businesses in this budget by a total of DKK 6.5 billion in addition to general price and salary adjustment to increased activity and improved operating economy in hospitals. Unlike the Bondevik II Government, this government budgets for growth in activity. Health enterprises receive funds to cover increased pension costs. The strengthening of the basic allocation also allows for the introduction of a new distribution of income as proposed by the Magnussen Committee over two years. None of the regional health establishments is eligible for a reduction as a result of the conversion. The government will also facilitate the migration challenge in healthcare businesses with a further increase in basic appropriations of 500 million. kr. However, improvements are needed. We need to ensure that different parts of the health sector cooperate well and that they interact better. Patients on the way from hospitals to hospitals or other community services must feel sure that they are being taken care of. The government will start work on this interaction reform in the health sector in order to provide patients with better and more holistic health services. Right now, the financial crisis has taken the focus of the climate crisis that we know the world is facing. But the climate crisis has not been resolved. And we know that it takes a lot of us to be able to prevent global warming that will cost people both in poor and rich countries. We have to transform our society into small and large. We need to build up our own knowledge and get ourselves new through research. We need to develop new technologies and shift energy consumption. We have to plan land use in terms of climate. We need to build differently and more energy efficient than before. We have to change transport patterns for people and for goods. We're just kind of busy. Last year, the government made a settlement with all the opposition parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, on a binding policy to reduce climate change emissions. So we're going to go 300 million. kr for research on renewable energy and carbon capture and storage. The transport sector accounts for a significant proportion of climate emissions. The reward scheme for better public transport and less urban car use has been proposed to double. Conversion of car charges stimulates the demand for cars that emit less and less CO2. This government has worked systematically over several budgets to launch low-carbon cars. Cars with the lowest CO2 emissions may be relieved of more than NOK 10000. On the other hand, the most polluting cars will have a charging shop. This is round number two in conversion of the one-off charges on the car. Now we also propose to make electric cars more attractive through the company car tax. The government has set itself the goal of halting the loss of natural diversity by 2010. It's a demanding goal, and we're behind it. The first step on the road to prevent extinction is to acquire knowledge about the animals and plants that we actually have. That's why we're spending more money on identifying nature types and species, and we're increasing the appropriations for the protection of wild fauna and flora. We are increasing the commitment to forest protection, and we are increasing the appropriations for conservation and management of already protected areas. With this, we show that the state takes responsibility for the areas that we protect. In the cultural memory year, we take a force to stop the decay of peaceful cultural memories and environments. We're increasing the fund capital of the Cultural Memory Fund by 200 million. kr. We also increase efforts both on the concrete conservation programmes and on the programme of value creation based on cultural memories. That's what I'm referring to because I know it gets ring-effects in many communities. In addition to the increase in the Culture Memory Fund, the Ministry of the Environment budget is increasing by 600 million. kr. That's an increase of over 18 pst. One of the climate measures that have attracted considerable international attention is the conservation of forests in developing countries. In this draft budget, we set out SEK 1.5 billion for that purpose, and we ask for authorisation to give commitments of another DKK 1.5 billion. It is the poorest countries that are hardest hit by climate change. We have great self-interest in reducing climate emissions, but it is also important in an international solidarity perspective. However, measures to prevent deforestation are only a small part of the effort. In this budget, the Government proposes to increase the aid budget by DKK 3.9 billion, and it now amounts to over NOK 26 billion. In this way, we reach the goal that has been central to many who have been concerned with international solidarity for many years, namely 1 pst. of gross national income. No other government has ever increased the aid budget so much. This is important, because in many poor countries it is now feared that the current international financial crisis will lead to rich countries forgetting them and getting enough of them to themselves. That's why this is important - even beyond ourselves - as a signal to the world that we are doing the opposite in Norway. A modern foreign policy must be able to focus attention both on the major international challenges and on national interests in the neighbourhoods. In the budget, the government is strengthening the North by DKK 0.5 billion. That means that the total bet in the north areas is almost a billion over three years. Our policy is a broad national commitment to housing, work, value creation, climate and environment, sustainable management, knowledge and culture. We made the northern areas of this government's most important strategic field of foreign policy. In December 2006, we presented our Northern Region Strategy with 22 different action points, ranging from Arctic Councils, better opportunities for border crossing between Russia and Norway, increased efforts in the fight against illegal, unregulated and unregistered fishing for oil protection. I would like to send a little greeting to those who were so disappointed by the decision of the sports board against the Olympics to Tromsø. We have a clear objective that the north of Norway, which is our main part of the country in managing resources, in creating values, should have a clear perspective and a priority with us. Defence is also important for the north. In line with the adopted long-term plan for defence, we are strengthening the defence budget. ==References== 400 million. kr of the increase in the defence budget is about following our own plan to escalate our own long-term defence plan. At times of alarm, it becomes clearer than otherwise how important it is to be prepared for the major challenges that the future can bring. We have to be well prepared--even if it's uncertain what we're going to break into--in order to be able to act quickly, take control of the problems instead of being controlled by the problems. It concerns the financial crisis and the need to curb international capitalism. This concerns the climate challenges and the world’s major poverty problems. But to navigate, we also have to take care of important values that we stand together for. And to bet on culture is to bet on values that can't necessarily be measured in heads and ears, but it also turns out in heads and ears. The Community, the quality of life, the experiences have a self-esteem, but equally important is what is new, provocative and challenging. The cultural promise is followed up in a number of areas. During the years 2006-2009, the cultural budget will increase by nearly NOK 2 billion, and we are on track to follow up the objective of 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes by 2014. Two million Nordics say they participate in voluntary work every year. There are more than 115,000 non-governmental organisations in Norway - organisations and teams that contribute to social work and efforts that we all benefit from: on the sports track, in the 17th of May train, to forests or to homework, to mention just a few examples. We know what this means for community, for children and young people, both as prevention and to take care of what we have. That is why we want to step up support for voluntary work up to NOK 1 billion per year. Equivalence is a prerequisite for a fair and inclusive society. This is why we are also strengthening our efforts to follow laws and intentions in the fight against discrimination against people with disabilities, ethnic minorities, homosexuals and lesbians. The greatest promise for a more equal work and family life is the four-week extension of the feces leave. It gives better distribution of work and care for children--and maybe a little bit of other things in the house too--between the parents. This means that fathers and children get more time together, and that mothers can be more easily involved in the work. A core value in Norwegian society is that there are relatively small differences between people. Over decades, differences have increased between the richest and the poorest in the entire Western world. Norway has been part of this trend, but we still have relatively less differences between ourselves than in other countries it is natural to compare with. This is due to a strong culture of cohesion and distribution and a well-organised Nordic welfare model. But we were in the midst of a development towards greater differences between peoples, more vulgarism in some vehement of the people and increasing distance from the poorest. During a recession, this has made it easy to shoot speed. In a period of very low unemployment, many have had the opportunity to get a job and income. It is essential to combat poverty. Therefore, it is also so important to keep unemployment low. But poverty cannot be combated in the labour market alone. The government has taken action to combat poverty. In the 2008 social security settlement, the parties agreed to use the lag between settlement in 2007 and an exceptional increase in the minimum pension and some other so-called G-regulated social benefits, such as: those applicable to young people and disabled persons. As a result of this change, the minimum pension for single minimum pensioners increased by NOK 16 000 from 1 May this year, and we have committed ourselves to increasing the minimum pension further over the next two years. This means that many with low incomes are lifted. Overall, the increase in the minimum pension rate and the increase in other minimum social security benefits amount to DKK 2.1 billion in 2009. The impact of social security settlement alone means that about 20 000 people are lifted out of poverty in 2009, measured at the EU poverty line. The number of people receiving social assistance in this country has fallen by over 20 000 between 2005 and 2007. For those who are still dependent on social assistance, we increase the government indicative rates by 5 pst. in addition to the expected price increase. It's the second time during our government period that we're doing such a boost. No one's done that before us. We strengthen and refurbish the housing support, so that 40 000-50000 more households will be covered by it. That's almost 50 pst. more than today. On an annual basis, housing aid will increase by approx. One billion kroner. We will introduce it from 1 July 2009. In 2010, the price tag is NOK 1 billion. The new qualification programme for vulnerable groups increasingly includes municipalities. We are strengthening the poor's own organisations, because it is so important that their voices are heard in the fight against poverty. We're adjusting the income limits for free legal aid. The escalating plan for the drug field is increased by 300 million. kr. Most of this amount is used to strengthen the provision of health care and treatment for drug addicts in specialised health services and to more municipal services for this group. Many people have been concerned that we should take greater responsibility for those who are struggling with drug problems. Let's do that. Over the period 2002-2005, the budget of the Bondevik II Government’s action plan against poverty increased by DKK 1.3 billion. In comparison, this government has increased the appropriations by SEK 3.2 billion. In addition, the social security scheme will increase the minimum social security benefits. It is our own great goal to eliminate poverty that keeps our focus and pushes us on so that everyone can share in the prosperity. Tax policy is our most important tool to achieve fairer distribution. We cancelled the tax breaks and brought the tax levels back to 2004 levels. It has given us billions of dollars for more well-being and community. At the same time, we have taken important steps to make the tax system fairer. The total tax changes over the period have provided clear reinforcements for the richest, while those with lower incomes have largely benefited from relief or unchanged tax. The tax reform of 2006 led to a higher level of taxation on capital income and employee income. The introduction of dividend taxes means that the richest, who have largely their income from capital, must contribute more to the community. The major adjustments in the years prior to the reform have made it possible to take time before they are fully effective. But only from 2006 to 2007, the dividends for personal shareholders have increased from NOK 7 billion to NOK 15 billion. We've done a lot to make the wealth tax a better distribution policy tool, as opposed to the previous government that aimed to remove it. Since 2005, we have tripled the net asset tax for single couples and fivefold it for married couples. It is now, with this proposal, NOK 470 000 for single couples and NOK 940000 for married couples. This means that more than 400,000 people, or one third of all those who paid taxes on wealth in 2005, will not pay taxes on wealth. An additional 500,000, almost a million people in total, have received lower taxes on wealth or are free to pay taxes on wealth as a result of the changes we have made. But for the most wealthy, the treasure has increased. We've removed the stock abate in the past. Now we propose to remove the so-called 80 pst. rule, which has become a special tax advantage for the wealthiest in society. The government's draft budget therefore involves a very targeted redistribution of taxes at the top. The government is converting the inheritance tax so that it becomes more fair. We close holes in the tax system that they with the most resources and money have been able to make the most of, and we spend this money to facilitate the inheritance tax for everyone else. Over 90 pst. of all those liable to pay the inheritance fee will have relief compared to the current rules, while 5-10 pst. has to pay more. The intrusions apply to the 10 pst. The richest one, which according to the statistics owns 90 pst. of the shares in unlisted limited liability companies. The relief is extensive for ordinary people. Business, too, would like the inheritance tax to be reduced. In addition, we propose to maintain a valuation discount of 40 pst. for unlisted shares for the first 10 million per. heir. And we are proposing important extensions to the scheme of interest-free repayment schemes for the generation shifts in enterprises. Overall, we have therefore found a good balance between the objective of fair distribution and the consideration of smaller family businesses. Some in this room have made it so that this government has had hundreds of billions more to route with-- and far more-- than the previous government. It is wrong, and many of those who make that claim know well how wrong it is. Because we don't use all the tax dollars as they get in. We level it out, so that very good times don't mean that we lose our heads in party and so forth, and that very bad times don't mean that we have to go straight in and cut off the welfare arrangements -- that's why we smooth it out. When we correct these tax revenue, the figures for the previous government and our government look pretty similar. We have calculated how much the previous government had to travel with in relation to how much our government has to travel with. Both have had approx. SEK 8 billion in growth in tax revenue per year. years. It's going to be NOK 30-35 billion in the landfill period. We've spent almost the same amount of oil money in total during the pouring period, 36 billion dollars and 33 billion dollars. That means that both the Bondevik II government and our government have had about the same amount of work to do. It's not that we've got something free of charge over the budget, but we've given a completely different priority. The previous government spent more than a third of its space on tax relief. We haven't done it. That is why we can over-comply with the national transport plan, invest so freshly in research, build kindergartens with both hands, fight poverty. It is a clear political choice that separates the opposition parties from today's government parties. It also allows us to increase efforts in some other areas, for example. combating crime. Crime is one of the things that creates insecurity for a lot of people. The fight against it must go on two fronts. There must be efforts to create more security for all those who may be exposed to violence, abuse and crime. But there must also be efforts to enable all those who have been repeaters of crime for a long time to get out of it. That's what we all earn. That is why we have tabled a draft budget which will allow the 2009 settlement of the settlement queue. We're raising more police students than ever. We're setting up new police posts in Oslo. We're strengthening Kripos. And there's a lot more. In a troubled financial world, with conditions beyond our control, we still stand up in Norway. The budget presented here today takes care of the values we have, and makes us prepared for the future. We prioritise knowledge, from kindergarten to research. We prioritise the environment through money for rainforests, research, public transport, nature protection, renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. We have channelled money and effort into districts and northern areas. We've managed the resources from private to community. We give priority to transportation. We continue to strengthen the local economy. We re-distribute through the tax system by cutting the property tax and inheritance tax for ordinary people and demanding more of those who have a lot. We prioritise international solidarity by being the first government to reach the goal of using 1 pst. of aided gross national income. Those who set low goals never have to work hard to reach them. It sounds nice, but it's not our motto. Because we who set high targets, we always have something to go after. We do that every day. Now we are presenting our fourth budget for community, for justice, for well-being and for the environment. We're fulfilling promises that we've given ourselves, and that we've given to the voters. We're taking action that goes beyond the plans we had in the Soria Moria statement. We take care of the values, and we prepare Norway for the future. That's what I'm inviting the Storting to join in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e295	The President will propose that a comment round be given, limited to an entry of up to 5 minutes from each batch group. This is in accordance with Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure. The President will then propose to depart from Paragraph 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure in such a way as to give rise to a comment by the Minister of Finance, and then to a final comment by the representative of the opposition party, up to a maximum of 2 minutes each. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up to 3 minutes at the end of the debate. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e304	We've had some very good years in the Norwegian economy. But now the international economic cycle has turned around, and there will have consequences for us in Norway as well. The financial crisis is spreading and seems to be much more serious than most of us expect for just a few weeks ago. In this situation, it has been very important to make a balance between pursuing an expansionary policy, with a risk of high interest rates, and spending too little money and contributing to an excessive cooling of the economy. We have to take care of both those who have problems asking for their loans at high interest rates, and those who are at risk of losing their jobs when the temperature of the economy goes down. The government is adding up to use exactly 4 pst. expected real return on the State pension fund - Rest of the world. This oil money usage thinks we're well adapted to the situation we're currently in, and he's in line with the rule of action. The action rule is simply opened to handle both a bit less than 4 pst. in an economy of rise and slightly more than 4 pst. in a recession. Never before have more people in this country been at work. The unemployment rate has been halved for the last three years. The value creation in Norway is right than it has ever been. However, there is a great deal of uncertainty about how the Norwegian economy will develop further this fall and over the next year. There are signs that the growth in employment has fallen, and we have to assume that the unemployment rate may increase somewhat. We'll follow developments carefully. In particular, we want to have a sharp look at the labour market. The government is proposing a budget that is well adapted to the situation as it is today. If the cooling of the economy were to become stronger than planned, we have the economic power to provide more gas. Within the responsible framework chosen by the Government, important welfare arrangements are a priority. Regional health care providers will be boosted by DKK 6.5 billion in their economy in addition to the overall wage and price rise for the next year. This will allow you to increase the basic exercise and increase the activity level. It is also gratifying that a new distribution of income will be provided, and that it can be carried out in two years, following the arrangement outlined by the Magnussen Committee. I am glad that there is going to be an offensive to action against poverty. Several will be offered a qualification programme and a qualification grant. The bus fee will be converted and strengthened. Guided social assistance rates will be increased by 5 pst. In addition to price increases, and measures for drug addicts receive a substantial boost. In total, the budget will be increased by DKK 1.25 billion in this field. It is also part of the poverty effort that the grant of aid is increased to 1 pst. of gross national income. This represents an increase of SEK 3.9 billion and is historic. The municipalities get more money next year than they were represented in May. Free income increases by SEK 4.7 billion, i.e. Nearly 3/4 billion dollars above the upper limit signaled in the municipal bill this spring. It provides room for more and better services in the care of the elderly and in schools across the country. Traffickers and businesspeople today may be glad that transport plans for this period are being overfilled. It's unique. The railway license increases by DKK 1.3 billion, to the tune of DKK 1.6 billion. Fair distribution is very important for the government party. We continue to work to strengthen the distribution profile, and the wealth tax will be improved. People with the highest wealth have to contribute more to the community. The bottom subtraction will increase significantly. As a result, 110,000 fewer people will have to pay property taxes next year. At the same time, the inheritance fee is made more fair. The bets are dropped strongly, and the entry points are increased strongly. At least 90 pst. of the heirs will pay less inheritance tax than today. It's common people who get the easier. All these changes we're able to make because we haven't prioritised tax breaks in this big time period. The Minister of Finance has just presented a budget that has a fine balance between responsible economic policies and measures to combat rising unemployment. It shows responsibility, action and dynamism.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e332	Today’s government has much to thank Norwegian taxpayers and Norwegian businesses for. Never before has a government had more money at its disposal, and so it is easy for a finance minister to stand and distribute a lot of money. There's a lot of money going beyond the state budget, to a lot of arrangements. A lot is positive. But let me first dwell on what the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have been saying on the in and out for several days now, given the situation we have, with an international financial crisis. I note that both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have been concerned about and said that this budget will take well the situation we are now in. I'll put a big question mark on that. Especially for very many people in Norway today who are concerned about the high interest rate, who are concerned about high housing costs, who are concerned about high food prices, who are concerned about high fuel costs, etc., this budget shows no solution for the situation of very many people now in, and can come in. If you, for example, had been committed to clear tax reliefs in the private economy of people, such as: - as I mentioned - in the case of food taxes, fuel taxes and a number of other charges, you could give a good handshake to the Norwegian people by directly influencing their wallet positively. But this government doesn't meet people. It would be a very good signal through this state budget, which is about so much money, that you gave something back to those who actually contribute to the income side that the Government is happy to use. We also note that within the tax system that the Government has now introduced, the steps taken in relation to inheritance tax are positive. With the grips you do both in the matter of property taxes and inheritance, I'm concerned that private capital can move out. Nor does it meet the international crisis that can come to Norway and be further reinforced here in Norway. So to some of what the government has said it has prioritised in the budget: The municipal economy: Yes, the government goes a bit beyond what it said in the municipal proposition. The problem is that Norwegian municipalities, which in these days are to start their budgetary work in the whole country, have announced large cuts in a number of welfare services provided by Norwegian municipalities. That's based on what was in the municipal proposition. The marginal increase that the Government is now making in order to strengthen the local economy will hardly save many health homes, teaching positions or the welfare offer that many municipalities consider to cut. It's worrying. The local government's Central Association, KS, which is the local community's association, has said something like $6 billion is what needs to be done. The government grants NOK 4.7 billion. That's why you get a gap. Then it doesn't help to come up with interest-rate compensation schemes for schools, churches, swimming facilities and hospitals. So the government says that the government is going to cover the interest expenses, because a lot of Norwegian municipalities can't afford to raise these loans anyway. That is why I am concerned about the situation of Norwegian municipalities in the coming years. Of course, it's going to go out on the populace. And it's a little sad, in a country that has a lot of income, which has a lot of oil and gas wealth, that this doesn't benefit people any better. The transport promise: I had the pleasure of seeing the Prime Minister say on TV that there would be tens of billions coming. The Labour Party leader's subjects clapped and were completely fanatical. They said this is very good--at last! Yes, but where did these tens of billions go? But the medal also has a backside, because what's happening now is that the tolls are going to be increased by 20 pst. - Norwegian drivers have to pay more of this cake. And how much way do we get? The jam won't be many kilometers more of a freeway compared to the increase you made. If you really wanted to make a boost in the transport sector, you got to do it. Unfortunately, it's not a real lift, as we see it. The health sector: more money is now being allocated. But as we read the numbers we've been presented, not all of the cuts that health care companies have announced will be reversed. On the contrary, we see e.g. in the area of rehabilitation that there is no increase, and we see that psychiatry drugs are now being introduced into the framework of the municipalities, so that they come in a completely different situation than they have been in. We can't see that there's a real health boost, and it's worrying now that we know that health cows have increased by 20,000 per. years, and we're at risk for that to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e353	First, let's say a few words about Mr. Leirstein's attack on the Prime Minister. I think he has heard badly after and knows the Prime Minister badly if he believes that the Prime Minister is turning around with tens of billions of dollars in a single year's budget. What he was talking about was the next national transport plan. So the Prime Minister has his words left behind by adding to the over-fulfilment of the national transport plan we are about to implement this year before we get a new one. Then I have to say that I am looking forward to the Progress Party presenting its alternative state budget, for there are many billions of them. It's true, as the representative Leirstein says, that we can prioritize spending billions of dollars on tax bills now. It might be a couple of hundred dollars each of us in the month. It would help very little for those who now feel insecure because of their interest rates and jobs. In all other important areas of well-being, I have only heard overburdens in relation to the offensive budget presented by the Government itself. That's why I'm happy to see the alternative, and then I'm glad it's not being adopted, because it's gambling with people's economy. We are going to do two things now when we leave this exceptionally strong high economic cycle: we're going to be able to take care of the low unemployment into a period of lower growth. At the same time, we shouldn't spend so many billions of oil that we don't give room for lower interest rates. That's this balance sheet we're now following when we're in the state budget at 4 p.m., as the rule of action says. Our rule of how we deal with oil revenues is that in good times we use a little less, and in worse times we use a little more. For next year we've put on exactly 4 pst. We believe that it is very good for this situation, takes care of the low unemployment rate and facilitates the fall in interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e365	I think it is very, very pleasant that the Minister of Finance is delighted to read the budget of the Progress Party. All the other times she's read it, I haven't traced that joy in her facial expression. But this is what we come back to when the Financial Committee is going to present its position in a few weeks' time. There are, of course, a good deal of opportunities in this state budget for cutting and improving efficiency. That is why the Progress Party will come back to it. The fact that, among other things, The aid budget is increasing by DKK 3 billion uncritically just to reach 1 pst. of gross domestic product, seems more like numerical magic and you want to get a number than you want to see what this money actually goes to. Then one is chemically exposed to looking at efficiency improvements in the public sector. One should always keep an eye on it and see if it is also a potential for efficiency within state bureaucracy, state directorates, government departments, public sector. The same efficiency requirements as private business each day should also apply in the public sector. I mentioned in my post instead some areas where we feel that there is a lack. It is clear that these are areas that the Progress Party wants to give priority to. Because it's worrying when the government says to the Norwegian people that now they want to, for example. experience a much better care for the elderly and a much better school, while Norwegian municipalities that are responsible for these tasks - because it does not have the Minister of Finance - warn that it is likely to be cut off. We have had a strong and good pay settlement, which gives results in the municipal sector, and I am worried that this does not concern the Minister of Finance. Now you had the opportunity to do a lot of work in the transport sector, as you actually promised. Interestingly, tens of billions of dollars were promised in the national transport plan, because there are already tens of billions on the way. So much was it worth it. It's okay to make promises when you might have to leave the government offices in one year, so that those promises have to be fulfilled by any government other than your own government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e378	The financial crisis requires that we, as politicians, show accountability and long-termity. The most important thing now is to create security for home and work. It's not enough to say that you take the situation seriously; you also have to do it -- President: if you could get the Minister of Finance to follow along? - because when I hear the Minister of Finance's financial speech, I get the impression that you haven't taken seriously. There was a lot of business as usual here. The last day, the banking crisis has moved closer. It creates uncertainty both for savers and for business. The financial speech was totally out of the question of how the Government will meet and limit the banking crisis we are now seeing approaching Norway. I would therefore like to inform you that the Right will call the Minister of Finance again to the Stortinget to explain how the Government will limit the consequences of the banking crisis. Many families now experience payment problems because of excessive interest rates. I notice that the Minister of Finance at least outside this will promise lower interest rates. I hope she gets it right, because this budget does not give Norway's Bank much help in reducing interest rates. Of course, there is no indication of being non-slip about the exact location of the chalk line when it comes to oil money usage in today's situation. But the government's problem is that the three years, the three good years, have not been used to invest for the future, that the three years have not been used to invest in infrastructure, in higher education, in research and in growth-promoting tax reliefs. The Minister of Finance boasts that there is a power cap for higher education. This is about correcting own old cuts in higher education and in research. The problem is that the government has given full gas in high economic conditions. It has weakened the competitiveness of businesses, it has led to a higher cost level, and it has led to an excessive interest rate. The main problem is that the Government is increasing public expenditure too strongly and is financing it with new burdens on business. The government chooses tax incentives rather than safe jobs. They are facing the financial crisis with tax incentives for our businesses and for those who invest in our jobs. It's about. EUR 1 billion in increased tax for enterprises and for those investing in enterprises in Norway. It's the government's response to the financial crisis and the answer to all those who feel insecure about the jobs. This is an increase in taxes on wealth; it is an increase in taxes on generation changes in enterprises. When a daughter is going to take over a business after Dad has run it for 20-30 years, the answer from Kristin Halvorsen is that the state is going to go in and demand even more in that transition period. We need safe jobs, and we need a viable business if we are to finance welfare in the future. This government is good at spending money, and it's good at boasting that it's spending money. But I would like to remind you of the headline in the newspaper on Sunday, where both KS and Unio said that there is less well-being with the red-green government than it was under the center-right government. The truth is that we lowered taxes and brought down health cows, while today's government is increasing taxes and has also delivered increased health cows to the Norwegian people. The answer is therefore not only to spend more money but also to implement reforms to achieve more results. The point is that the government can boast that more money has been spent on the road, but the Minister of Transport confirms to the Right that no further road has been built during this government. This is because it does not implement the necessary reforms and cooperates with the private sector in the solution of the tasks. And that's the results the government is going to meet with, and not necessarily just how much money you're going to give. I still think people remember that the government said it should eliminate poverty, that care for the elderly should shine, and that municipal politicians should be satisfied. The government itself has created a crisis of expectation that they are now affected by, and I fear--or I don't fear, I think-- that the government will be remembered as the breakup government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e394	I think the management in the Right has had to decide before I went to the Chair today, to ask me to come to the Storting and talk about the financial crisis, because I think that all those who heard what I said heard that I talked a lot about how this budget is now facing an insecure situation for many, and about how we are going to facilitate that we will take with us in the future both the low unemployment and the high employment levels and facilitate a lower level of interest rates. Having said that, I would like to say that I am prepared at any time to come and discuss other issues surrounding the financial turmoil and the effects it has on us. The short-term work on what is now the biggest challenge of short-term fluctuations, namely the lack of liquidity in markets, is that of Norway’s Bank, which is now dealing very aggressively, to ensure that we have a financial market that works as soon as possible. But we're part of an international economy, and we know that at these times there's considerable uncertainty about this. I'll be there any minute. Then to the attacks on the state budget, because they are very predictable from the Right. I wonder how many billion dollars does the Right want to tighten this state budget. Then I want to warn you strongly, and that's because we're in a situation where we think next year's growth is going to be about 2 pst. In 2007, it was 6 pst. We have four-five years of very strong growth behind us. This has led to 200,000, and more than that, more people working only from 2005 until now. Making sure that society and all individuals are fully aware of such a significant change requires an offensive policy to be adopted. That's what we do when we've been under the oil money industry in the years that we've had behind us, because it was so good times. Now it's on 4 pst., while under the Bondevik government it was over 4 pst., because then it was worse times. That is why this is a well-balanced budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e403	I don't think the Minister of Finance may have heard what I said in my speech, because I wasn't talking about calling the Minister of Finance to explain the financial crisis. We have read in the budget that the government lacks answers in relation to how to create security for the jobs. I underlined: how do you want to limit the banking crisis? That is where the Minister of Finance should have given some clearer answers today on how to limit the banking crisis, as we now see rolling closer to Norway. I also did not say that the Right now announces large cuts in the state budget. I emphasised on the contrary that it is difficult in today's situation to say just where the chalk line goes in relation to oil money. We'll actually have to take a few days to look at the consequences of that. Our criticism is that the underlying expenditure growth in the budget is too strong to increase public expenditure too strongly, financed by tax incentives for business. The Minister of Finance's response to small businesses along our coasts, to small and medium-sized enterprises, to value creators and to workers is that they should be burdened more. In all countries around us we are now discussing how to improve the framework conditions for businesses, but the answer from Kristin Halvorsen is increased tax. I kept saying that almost no matter what you ask the Minister of Finance, the answer is increased tax. But now we have been shown that there will be no more welfare of increased taxes, nor will there be safer jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises, if the Minister of Finance continues to increase taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e410	When we meet the people in elections next year, our government will be measured in relation to one thing, and that's whether we run the policy in the same direction as we said before the elections. Then I'm just going to talk to myself, because I'm really burning for two things. One is to take care of the climate of the world for my children and grandchildren, if I'm so lucky to have someone, so that we who sit here, don't go into the history of the generation that ruined our own and our children's livelihoods in the same way that the virus does. The second is more fair distribution and full employment at a time when the differences between the rich and the poor on the globe are increasing, because I grew up in a home where I learned from my parents always to take the weakest party. I think people see that our government is taking important steps in the right direction in both cases. The railroad comes like a bullet, because we're building railroads with both hands like never before. That's what we have to do, because moving collectively instead of using a car is one of the most important people who can do to slow down climate change and improve the local environment. That's why we double the effort on public transport in big cities, while at the same time working to get goods off the roads. We know that is also important for road safety, when freight cars are involved in every five fatalities in road traffic. For those who still have to use a car, we continue the conversions of the one-off charge, so it'll pay off for people to choose environmentally friendly when they buy a new car. Because it takes 20 years to replace the car park, people have to buy environmentally friendly cars now. For you on Bygdøy: So big, petrol-lubricating cars are out. We are putting great emphasis on climate research, energy saving and renewable energy, because it is necessary in an environmentally friendly energy future. Where gas power is going to be important to many countries in the world, we are making sure to bring forward the technology for cleaning up gas power plants that the world's international environments consider necessary. We are strengthening the work on the environment and climate in Norway, and we are doing what we can to stop the destruction of natural diversity. But what I think you notice most around the world is that we actually reach the goal of 1 pst. of the revenue of our country should go to aid. It is a symbolic goal, but at the same time it is a goal that has real meaning both for the poor in the world, for cohesion, and for international solidarity, while at the same time helping to quickly solve what is one of the greatest challenges for the climate, namely, the erosion of the rainforest. Increasing assistance by SEK 3.9 billion is a formidable boost. There's something that's going to be noticed internationally. In Norway, we are reducing the differences in all our policies. If we are to reduce the differences between people, we must not just ensure a fair distribution of income where people with high incomes pay more in taxes than those with low incomes. If we're going to do something about the differences that are built up here in the country, we actually have to tax inheritances, and we have to tax those that have a lot of wealth, harder than today. That's why we're increasing the wealth tax for the richest with the largest commercial property, and we're increasing the inheritance tax for the 5 pst. Richest. Then we use it to give inheritance fees to everyone else. In addition, we use the space for action to bet on well-being in municipalities, in schools and care for the elderly, and on the cultural promise. We're busy doing something about the differences in everything we do. That's why we're making a teacher budget where we're betting on recruiting teachers, re-training teachers, and putting on early work in school, so that kids learn more and master the school as it is. We extend the housing support and ensure that it includes 50 000 more people. 100000 to 150000 are now provided with a rights-based income hedge to cover high housing costs. We're raising the lowest social security, we're raising the indicative social assistance rates, and we're making sure that several of those in need of help from care and free legal aid get it. Here's the difference between us and the right-hand side. The right-hand side used its space for tax havens. We're using it to strengthen community and fair distribution. I think people will see that we're going in the direction we said before the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e434	It's hard to predict, especially about the future, it's called in the vocabulary. It will be possible for many to sign on, with the dramatic events of the last days and weeks in mind. When the government presented the revised national budget before the summer, the prospects were also quite different from what was presented by the finance minister here before today. Since then, financial markets around the world have been shaken in their foundations. The borrower has shot in the weather, and huge stock exchange values are fragrant. The global central banks have dealt with crisis measures, and banks are nationalised over a low shoe. It was quite strong to sit in front of the TV yesterday and hear what the Icelandic Prime Minister announced to his own people. This financial turmoil also spreads to the real economy: less secure jobs and fewer investments in business. No longer is there any doubt that the effects will also come here. It is about banks no longer lending money to sensible business investments, and savings banks do not actually get to borrow money at a reasonable reasonable price. It will eventually have consequences, consequences that the Minister of Finance as well as government and growth will have to take on board. Those who thought that the road to progress was going by leaving the markets to themselves, and who were proud of the fact that it would provide the best solutions, have had to make a settlement with their own reality. We need public, specific frameworks that take more account of the weak party than strong capital institutions. The capital institutions -- we've seen -- don't primarily have an eye for the interests of the minimum pensioner, the student or the young couple who have just settled in their own home and are waiting for their first in a child. Maybe another lesson can also be drawn from what has happened. Money values are important values, but they're pretty volatile in character. Focus on other and more stable values, values that are independent of daily exchange fluctuations, can also be an effect of the shocks that we have now seen. This is the last budget to be advanced in this process, and in many ways the last chapter of Soria Moria. Nor can we recommend any follow-up to Soria Moria from the Christian People's Party, but we can record some positives in the budget. Aid is being increased. The finance minister was a little quick to draw the historical conclusions, because the Willoch government also had 1 pst. within its budget in the case of assistance. However, the question is whether traditional aid to the world's poor will now be given to a competitor by paying the world's climate damage through the aid budget. It's a big paradox. We see that it's a transport bet, which is necessary and correct. Not least, we in the Christian People's Party will work for good road safety measures and an environmentally friendly charging profile. Then we've got interest-free loans, or let's say recycled interest-free loans to schools and church buildings. Of course, we support that, but we should wish that the government had never flinched the good arrangement presented by the Bondevik II government. So to something that's hard for us to digest. As far as I could register, parental care was not mentioned in one word in the Minister of Finance's statement. That means here the ambitions have failed completely. We have a deal with the Government. We want better quality for the elderly and we want demente to be given better care. This is a failure of the Government that we cannot sit still and watch. When it comes to higher education, you're back where you were, but there's no bet. And as far as school is concerned, we're more concerned that the hours you actually have are being filled with learning and quality than the hours are going to be increased. In today's situation, there is no need for tax incentives for business. The family-run enterprises, not least, need everything but a tax consolidation in today's situation. This is a bad signal, not least in view of the labour market that can develop. I come back to other things in my second post. But I want to ask the finance minister, who is stipulating a unemployment growth of only 1/4 pst. next year, and I think that might indicate that what has happened in the last few days has not been fully taken into account: how will the Government have a dialogue with the Storing to meet the challenges we are now facing, until we adopt a final budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e457	First of all, I must say that I very much agree with the representative Syversen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, on his and the Christian People's Party's assessment of the financial crisis and the lesson that lies in it. And so were there any indications of a bit of boasting in between? Of course, I take that very yearning to myself in a day when it's going to bother around the ears of us--with a lot of other things. I have also, I must say, become much more impressed with what the Christian People's Party was able to achieve when it came to assistance, in the previous period of government. Even if you didn't reach 1 pst. By GNI then, it was actually a stepping up all the way. But when you get behind the doors a little bit, you see that it has actually cost quite significantly in terms of political priorities. So that's what the Christian People's Party is going to pay tribute to. I'm glad they can enjoy themselves with us today because we have reached 1 pst. of GNI. So to some of the challenges that we get. In the case of care for the elderly, the objective of the Storting is to have a budget of 1 000 new health centres or nursing homes. I fully agree with what Mr Syversen says about the challenges we face in the field of dementia. There is one important reason why the municipal structure is better than we had planned, and notified the Stortinget about, because we see that more and more of the older ones are demented. We know that it is demanding both for the public service and for the relatives. So to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is not the case that the system of inheritance taxes and property taxes is bad for small and medium-sized enterprises. Then I don't think you've got the kind of cut that's going on. We're bisecting the rate at the top and increasing the bottom subtractions, so we're reaching 90-95 pst. lower inheritance taxes under this budget will be good news for many small and medium-sized enterprises and for the generational establishment there. And then finally, of course, we're answering all the questions that had to come up about the budget now. If it were at any time that we felt there was a need for further action before the Storting decided on the budget, we would, of course, contact the Stortinget immediately about it. But I believe that this budget, despite all the uncertainty, is well matched by what is now, and as we have known in a while, even before the last weeks of dramatic financial turmoil.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e470	Thank you for your answer. I want to address an important issue, which was at least important for the government parties before they came into government, namely the fight against poverty. The poverty was to be eliminated with a pen stroke. We talked here about regulations that were necessary. Now I'm going to give a concrete description of what the situation is like in the care of Russo, which I doubt is that the government parties really want to hear, but they should do something about it. In this context, health enterprises have been allowed to take the lead in the form of a rigid tendering regime. The market is, and one after the other must give up, to great despair for those who need it. It says when the Salvation Army is no longer involved in the largest health region's offer to rehabilitate drug damage. The biggest paradox is that while places are laid down and many years of cooperation ends with a pen stroke, waiting time goes up. In Health South-East there are several thousand in line. The waiting time for acute treatment is now three months on average, while there is a waiting time of five months for long-term treatment. If we're talking about a bet for those who really need it, I have to say that this is unworthy, and it's a system that's played down. It requires governance - political governance, not market governance. I hope the government will no longer sit still and look at this, and we are with as far as we can, to contribute to a completely different situation for those who really need it. Our desire for cooperation to lift those who need it most does not require the Minister of Finance to doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e481	Today's financial crisis is very serious. We don't know what's ahead of us. The consequences to date already show that we are facing a systemic crisis. However, our country has a better starting point than others, because we have a surplus on the trade balance, a surplus on the state budget, huge natural resources under the control of the concession system and a working population - well educated in practical and theoretical subjects. Today's international financial crisis comes as a result of financial securities being inflated - much higher than the value of the real economy. The financial bubble is punctuated, the confidence crisis is entering the financial and stock exchange market with enormous shaking. The Community through the central banks, hedge funds and taxpayers are among those who need to be used to try to restore confidence internationally. This applies regardless of the blue colour of the governments of other countries - light blue or dark blue. It was strong to hear Bush's Finance Minister, Henry Paulson, former Chief of Goldman Sachs, say on American television last week in September: I don't like what I'm proposing, I'm against it, but we don't have a choice - the taxpayers are already on the hook! The blending economy, the correction of market forces and state regulation that ensure healthy, fair competition, will once again bring honor and dignity, not necessarily because more of today's leaders in business and politics will, but because people will demand it to be more secure. We must dare to challenge today's market understanding of a number of economists who have so far had a major impact on good social governance. From the inflating of economic bubbles - this time a financial bubble with no underlying real values - to real values based on what has built Norway, namely hard work and modest consumption that generates profits, which are then reinvested in new activities. All those who have believed in this lesson, and also practiced it during its Japanese period, are now getting increased vigilance and respect from the red-green government. We have to work to avoid people having to pay for speculation they are not responsible for. It is important to agree on a common sense of reality, in order to carry out a critical review of the framework and regulation of financial institutions and their future roles in the next round. In future, legislation must ensure a clearer division of roles between different types of financial institutions. The banking system was originally just built on deposit bases, role-sharing and stability. As elected representatives, we need to ensure that this is real again, rather than interrelationships that have developed in this sector internationally. As the nation's leading populace, we must carefully address these issues. Many individuals and families in Norway are concerned today with the consequences that the international financial crisis could have for their lives. Young start-ups, people with disabilities - these are groups that we especially need to provide security through active action. There is a modest, expansive budget being presented today. It increases public-funded activity, increases security for people when the private sector is weakened - a budget that signals the willingness to build the country, a clear commitment to upgrading Community values, well-being, better communications, international solidarity and environmental protection. The tax incentive for young people to save on own homes is strengthened. The deduction from taxable income is greatly increased and the new and increased depreciation rate is 10 pst. for technical installations in construction. The levy on sugar-added drinks is increased. It's good for the health of today's youth when they reach adult age. Russ, psychiatry and criminal care are given priority because it concerns our most deserving citizens of society, who thus get a better chance of a better life situation and of doing good work with their working capacity, when a through the qualification programme is stimulated to build on it one is good to-- I stress: build on it one is good to-- and get maritime respect through ordinary work, with the working capacity one has. The state budget is designed in its time and assumptions, before the international financial crisis became so strong and showed its dramatic international consequences. The centre party is therefore very pleased that the Prime Minister has said that if the conditions for the Norwegian economy for the next year's budget are substantially changed - and I stress significantly - the red-greens have to go through the budget to look at the measures needed to correct, provide confidence in the future and security for those people who can come in a difficult situation unscrupulous. The centre party, as a close-to-earth, practical party with many trust and people elected in important leadership positions around Norway, has to take this responsibility, based on a clear build-up of the future where the modernisation of communications and efforts to increase the production and processing of renewable energy are at the centre. The slogan of the centre batch, ‘growth is no longer to be consumed, but to be better managed’, becomes a good guide forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e502	There's no doubt that when we present this state budget -- I think it's about both the government table, the position and the opposition -- we feel more uncertain about the situation than what one might ever have done in presenting a government budget. It might surprise someone, but it makes me appeal to that time is not in order to be very sure of what is right to do in this situation. It's about the government, and it's probably about us in the opposition as well. It's not time to cultivate trenches, it's time to find good solutions for the country and be ready to turn around if the situation requires it, because there's so much uncertainty. The uncertainty is so great because none of us know how far and how deep into the real economy this crisis is going to go. I think it might be right at the end of this round to encourage this to be a little different from what we have had in recent years, because there may be a need to find solutions, unifying solutions, explain painful steps in the economy, etc., across the party boundaries as we get more insight when the weeks and months go by and the Storting will adopt a budget beyond Christmas. At least it's my call from the Left that we're ready to look a little across traditional boundaries to find the good solutions when we have to make sure what's right to do. I hope it's a challenge that government parties also take. I'm aware that it's a choice for next year, and it's important to cultivate distances and dividing lines, and I don't think we're going to have any problems with doing it. But there is also time to take the necessary public vows if required. It makes me say, in a somewhat cautious manner, that I can feel some concern about what can be done in this budget, in order to make the necessary contributions for interest rates to go down. I think the most important contribution in this situation is to do what we can to ensure that the interest rate peak is reached, and that the central bank manager can start to turn the interest rate downwards at the first crossroads. The budget is weakly expansive. That might be the right thing to do, but it could also be that there's something on top of it. I don't want to be sloppy about it, but at least I will have planted that uncertainty as to whether it should have been held back a handful of billions to spend beyond the harvest and winter as we begin to get more overview of this situation. There is no doubt that a lot of money is spent in this budget. I've looked at the state councils in inner circle that they're trying to hide good smiles. They've won a lot of budget battles, there's no doubt about it. I've also been part of it, and I know that there's reason to rejoice over such victories as well. Of course, many want more, and some are more winners than others. So I want to be very clear that this is a lot of money for many good purposes that have support, and I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it. If I'm going to be so rude to bring out someone who, after all, has impressed me a little bit, it has to be the State Council, Solheim, who manages two departments and is the winner of both departments. What's that man's got on the Minister of Finance? [[Laughter]] So to the two areas that are important to the Left, and where I want to point out that we should have seen some other grip. So we're going to be over where we can disagree. One is: in an uncertain situation, the safest thing to do is to ensure that jobs are maintained, and that new jobs and businesses are created. And I have to say that I don't think the proposal for a government budget sends the right signals to those who are struggling to keep company employees in their jobs and who are working to create new businesses. I understand that there is a lot of good symbolism in whipping the richest in Norway, and I don't feel sorry for so many of them, but I'm very concerned that we're going to have some rich people who can afford to own some means of production and businesses and invest in some new businesses in this country. And then I'm so willing to go past what I don't like, and say that I need them, Norway needs them. To whip 10 pst. or less by 90 p.m., as the Minister of Finance did right as it was in his intervention, I strongly disagree with the future's businesses and private ownership. Foreign private ownership and state ownership have good relationships in Norway, but we do something negative for the Norwegian private owners. This is the Center Party, too. The climate agreement delivers in all areas, perhaps with one exception, and there are framework conditions for the renewable sector. I'd like to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e521	I very much appreciate the tone that the representative Sponheim is taking, because there is no doubt that there are troubled times with a lot of uncertainty. The big lines - the big picture - in relation to this budget we have known about for a year. We who have to work on this every day have known that it was financial turmoil. We haven't known how dramatic it could be in the last few weeks, but we've always known that we would now land this high economic cycle in such a way that we got the best through it. Then there is a balance between employment and unemployment, ensuring that it is low at a time of lower growth, while at the same time providing for lower interest rates in a situation where MMF interest rates rise. And this is the result of our consideration of where that balance must lie. It is because you can see that families who have taken up large mortgages, who have stretched the knit long, who have had to establish themselves for the first time at the time the housing market was at the top, are now worried and worried. The real challenge they can face is if someone in the family has lost their job while planning for two incomes. Then their economic situation is completely different. And we must therefore be able to achieve that balance. So in relation to small businesses, it's not like we're increasing the tax burden. We stay at the level of 2004. But it's true, as Lars Sponheim says, that we suggest that those who have the most in Norway should contribute more. And unfortunately, with regard to the inheritance fee, there is an important reason why it lacks legitimacy or understanding among the Norwegian people, that people see that the richest have been able to plan around the inheritance fee and have not paid. Now we close those holes, while we take into account the small family businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e528	Let me first say that I understand this difficult balance that is linked to unemployment, and I am absolutely sure that there is something Government is very afraid of before the next fall elections, it is a rising - or perhaps rising - unemployment. That's why it's so important to try to hit right now. If expansion is too great, it will quickly give a boost to the economy at a time when unemployment is not yet there - even though the clouds are quite heavy around - and then it will quickly become higher unemployment than it would otherwise be. That's why, in my opinion, it's important to go out very carefully now, and then be clear either through the autumn or beyond the spring, and not least in the revised national budget, where, hopefully, a better overview of the situation. However, let me say that in the case of property taxes and the conversion of taxes, which in numerical sizes are not very large, we send a very focused signal to those who take on the task of being private owners in Norway, who will get even worse into competition with foreign capitalists who own in Norway, and of course with the state as their owner. At my discretion, we should encourage more people to own Norwegian jobs and to invest in Norwegian jobs and businesses in the future, because it is always in a recession, which we seem to be going into now, which will also be an upswing in the economy when the new jobs and new businesses are to be created. However, let me finish by sending a request. Something grips me sometimes more than the domestic situation, and it was to hear the prime minister of our brothers in the West yesterday at the crisis meeting in Everything, almost saying that the country can go bankrupt. It's like blood is thicker than water. And I think it did something to us all. So I want to end with a call to the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister to have close contact with our brothers and their colleagues in the West and see what we can do with knowledge and insight, and maybe muscles, to make sure they get through this. Sometimes neighbors need good neighbors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e537	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the Government's proposals for the State Budget and the National Budget for 2009 be discussed at a later meeting. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-07.ana.ud1616e555	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
