ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e105	The representatives of Olav Gunnar Ballo, Laila Davøy, Bent Höie and Øystein Djupedal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e123	The President will propose that three presidents be elected for the Storting meeting today and for the rest of the current week - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne, Kenneth Svendsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne, Kenneth Svendsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget's meetings this week. The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e130	On behalf of the representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Ola T. Lånke and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative on arrangements that provide stronger financial incentives for private owners of peaceful buildings to strengthen the maintenance of the buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e135	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e138	On behalf of Per Sandberg, Arne Sortevik, Ulf Leirstein, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on an overall plan for the development of the E18 Winterbro-Riksgren, with clear state funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e143	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e157	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 20 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and the State Council of Liv Signe Navarsete 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e166	In its work on the notification of St. No 12 on the Post also held a hearing on the case. I would like to point out that the committee has received a hearing from some of the municipalities that will lose their traditional post office. However, few recordings have been received in relation to the large scale of the case. I know that the different parties themselves will explain their views on the message. I would therefore like to continue in my post to take the view of the Advance Party. According to the governance structure of the Post Norway AS, large-scale notifications of the company and its position are to be provided at regular intervals. The background to today’s notification is the Posten’s business plan for the period 2006-2008. The last time a notification was submitted was in 2003. Since then, the company has grown strongly. This is due, inter alia, to: that the company has both expanded its field of activity in the field of logistics and transport, while also making a number of purchases of other companies in recent years. The purchase of the item has contributed to an increasing proportion of the Post Office’s activities being entirely different from those associated with traditional postal services. Already in 2011, it is estimated that traditional postal services will only account for about a quarter of the total. 10-12 pst. of the activities of the company. The EU will introduce full competition in all postal services from 2011. It opens up the possibility of postponing free competition until 2013. But if the red-green government chooses to base this on, it could mean, for example, that. Denmark and Sweden will refuse the entry of the Post Norway AS into competition in these countries because Norway chooses to postpone the introduction of free competition. This could have a very serious impact on Posten Norge AS, which currently has approx. 50 pst. market share, including: in Sweden. Unfortunately, it seems that the Council of State and the Government will nevertheless postpone implementation until 2013 in order, on an ideological basis, to artificially preserve the monopoly of the very few postal services that are still monopolyd in Norway. This reminds us of backwardness and is in stark contrast to the clear statements made by the Post Norway itself, where they have clearly stated that they want full competition, so that the company is ready to meet the competition that will come. Unfortunately, this only clearly shows that you have a very small forward-looking government, which clearly shows that they do not believe that the company Posten Norway will survive in competition - despite the fact that the company has fully proven that they are able to compete and that they show that they are very good. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to boast of both the company's management and all the employees who fully convince that they are capable and deliver good results, while being ready to meet new challenges. It is not unknown that the attitude of the Progress Party has always been that we want to open up to full competition in the postal services, which will ensure that customers are offered the best possible offer. It is also important to bear in mind that Post Denmark and Posten Sweden recently agreed to merge. This is, of course, an important part of a strategy to position and have the best possible starting point when the EU opens up free competition in all postal services in 2011 - including with respect to Posten Norway. With regard to the company’s framework conditions, it is important to bear in mind the challenges facing the Post Office’s activities and the situation in the rest of Europe. In addition to the fact that the Swedish Post and Post Denmark have decided to merge, there have also been Denmark partially privatised the former State-owned postal company. The Progress Party is of the opinion that the Post Norway AS has important societal tasks, but that there is no need for 100 pst. state ownership. We also believe that it would be very positive for the company to acquire private owners who can provide new and important incentives to ensure that the company will continue to be a strong and viable company in the future. The Progress Party will therefore propose that parts of the Post Norway AS be sold. The Progress Party considers this to be important in order to ensure that, in the future, there will also be a good cross-border postal service offer at a reasonable price and of good quality. As you know, in recent years the Post Norway has evolved into a major logistics supplier and carrier in a number of areas. The company has made a number of purchases in recent years. This means that of the company’s total turnover in 2007, the postal segment/rights services now account for only about 28 pst. of the company's turnover. These developments, as mentioned above, will continue at a very high pace and the share within the postal segment/justice area will in 2011 only amount to about 10-12 pst. of the total turnover of the company. In recent years, Norway has undergone major shifts in order to prepare for full liberalisation of the postal market in Europe and to introduce free competition in all postal services. In addition, the company has purchased a number of companies as part of ensuring the company's position in the coming years. The company has also rationalised and carried out a number of grips, including: by terminating a number of post offices and establishing Post in Store as a replacement - an offer that has been very well received by the customers. The postal message states that these developments will continue. It is proposed to lay down up to 124 post offices, but very many of these will be replaced by Post in Store. This development has been in line with the leadership given to the company by the owners and the board of directors. In the concession terms and conditions, the entry Norway is required to maintain, inter alia: banking services in their post offices and in Post in Store. These are services that are very unprofitable and involve costs for the company in the order of approx. 200 million. kr per year without this being compensated by the State. The Ministry now states that in the future, the unprofitable banking services will be part of the government purchase scheme. The Progress Party believes that there have been major changes since the time the banking services were part of the concession requirements, including: technological developments have been formidable. This implies that there is no longer the same need for these services among customers. Therefore, Norway should be able to decide for itself whether to maintain or remove banking services. Nevertheless, we would point out that if the charge is not removed, it is natural that the deficit is financed through government purchases. As regards universal service, we would point out that the Post Norway in its concession and agreement with the State has a number of postal service requirements. Therefore, the Party of Progress assumes that the Item will provide services under the terms of the concession granted for the period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2010, with the amendments resulting from the liquidation of the exclusive right. The progressing party also believes that it is now necessary to measure regularly whether the underlying delivery requirements are followed up. I would also like to point out that the personnel conditions in the company will be affected by what is in the notification. It assumes that approx. 650 annual works in Posten Norge AS will be affected by the closure of up to 124 post offices. In this context, cooperation between the company, the trustees and the NAV has been established in order to help, in the best possible way, staff who are becoming redundant to find other jobs. This is very good, and will help to ensure that the large process of conversion that is now being undertaken can be carried out in a good way and also be experienced as good by employees. The company’s economy has improved significantly in recent years, although the result for 2006 was slightly lower than in 2005, assuming that the company had to pay a lump sum of 574 million in 2005. to conclude the agreement with the State Pension Fund. In 2006, the company had operating profit of NOK 1 313 billion and a dividend to the state of 2006 of SEK 488 million. NOK, which we believe is very good. In order for these developments to continue, it is important that the process of conversion adopted be followed, so that the company also has in the future the strength and resources to meet the competition coming in the next few years, which the company already notes in all areas of full competition. As regards the income requirement of the Item, this is determined on the basis of the capital value model that is also used in the private sector. In the past five years, the Ministry's returns on the Post have remained stable for about two years. 11 pst. In the General Communication, the Ministry states that the Post must have financial space to provide high and equivalent quality of the services imposed on society in all parts of the country, and that this development is to be taken into account in the setting of the Income Requirement of the Post. The Ministry has therefore proposed that the yield requirement be reduced to 10 pst. for the group. We will support this, and we also believe that it is important to give the company room for action to meet the challenges ahead. Finally, I also have to say a little bit about it special in that it is now a government consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, with a central government council, which is the ones who are implementing a large-scale closure of the post office. I must say that I am convinced that this would never have received the support of the Centre Party if the Centre Party had been in opposition. Can the party's sound warnings against the consequences of the Advance Party policy only be camouflage of the consequences that their own policy actually provides? I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e198	The representative of Bård Hoksrud has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e203	The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have pointed out, in their comments on the matter, that they want to ensure all equivalent postal services throughout the country, while opening up free competition by correspondence of less than 50 grams. The same parties have not said anything about how to finance these postal services in facilitating free competition, other than through state purchases. Is there any oil money the Progress Party is going to spend here?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e210	In fact, we believe that it is natural that if a company that is going to provide a service that the state wants it to deliver gets costs in addition to what you can take through the income that you get from the users, yes, then the state is actually going to finance it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e215	President, congratulations on the day! The Progress Party is progressing in terms of its impact on the EEA Agreement by going for privatisation, more privatisation and more supply, and at least a few more market power into Norway - because then people will have greater freedom, will be rhetorical. But then one sees that it is likely that the policy that the Progress Party, and in this case also the Post, stands for, will not lead to equivalency nationally. He will lead to the loss of the districts, because it is becoming more expensive to live in the districts, and the private companies of which the Progress Party is a defender will foam the flute in the cities. The question is more likely to be addressed if the Progress Party is pleased that the EEA Agreement forces us to make progress party policies before the Progress Party has come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e226	Interestingly, the representative of Langeland is concerned about competition and that the districts will lose out on it. Here I want to refer to an excellent example. In fact, when free competition was opened up in aviation, the opposite was achieved. By gaining competition, the price of getting to the districts went down. That's exactly what's the whole point. That's what we believe in. By gaining competition, the Post Office will be even better. They will provide even better services, and they will ensure that punctuality is maintained - unless others are ready to provide the same services. That's why we say it's not going to be more expensive, no matter where you live in the country. The competition shall be there and the State shall finance any deficit by agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e231	The progress batch shall be commended for being recognisable in commercial matters. There is nothing that suddenly comes to mind when it comes to government sales and outsourcing. They show themselves in the position of Denmark, where they have chosen to part-privatise the state postal company. Now you can see that, in order to meet the competition from a state-owned Norwegian postal company, they are joining forces with Posten Sweden. I saw in the evening post yesterday that Post Norway says they already have 50 pst. of households in Sweden, but expect them to still be able to achieve 60 pst. Then my question is, is a 100 pst. State ownership to prevent a nationwide postal offer in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e238	I don't think a 100 pst. State ownership is a hindrance, but I do not think that a part-privatised postal service would prevent the delivery of equally good and perhaps better services. What is important for the Progress Party is that the Post should be given the opportunity to further develop and have the opportunity to compete. They will face strong competition from major postal operators in Europe. Then it is important that the Post is also strong and competitive, not only at home, but also when they are going to compete, with the big companies, and then we think it makes sense to bring in partners and private people who have a lot of expertise here and can help to keep the Post developing into a strong and good company.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e243	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e247	I'm fine with the Post. This is the owner's message and points to it. It points to many factors that make management, employees and owners happy with what the Post has created in recent years. The entry Norge AS has had a very positive development. Wages and salaries have improved steadily. This has been achieved through cost reductions and acquisitions of other companies in and outside Norway. Of course, employees have also played a very important role in getting this to and from the good results. Although it is great that the Post does well and delivers dividends to the owner, the state, it is important that we are reminded that the Post is primarily an important social actor. The state should be a professional owner of the Post, a good owner, but the state owns the Post primarily because it is an important part of the infrastructure of our society. The item Norway is currently operated as a wholly-owned state limited liability company. This mode of operation is chosen because it is meant to be the best to serve Norwegian society. The post is governed by economic goals, but the red-green parties see this as a guiding tool for fulfilling the socially important tasks of the Posten. It is therefore important that the Communication states that the Post does not see any contradiction between being a leading Norwegian-based communication and logistics company in the Nordic region and at the same time fulfilling its societal tasks. The post remains a fundamental public service offer for residents and businesses throughout the country - especially in the districts, where services should also be further developed. The fact that we in Norway have preserved the unit sport and the carryover of six days is very important and should also be so in the future. With Norway’s special geography, it is difficult to imagine that purely commercial operators will find it interesting to operate postal services throughout the country and provide the same postal service service to all. The fact that the Post is doing this today is an important part of the Stoltenberg government's policy for people to live and work throughout the country. Just as there should be roads, mobile coverage and broadband throughout the country, so there should be postal services. This government ensured that the exclusive rights of individual consignments of less than 50 grams were not lifted in 2007. That is why, of course, the message does not add up to that either. The exclusive right is a good instrument to ensure the financing of the Post’s additional costs for commercially unprofitable postal services. Together with any direct State transfers, the profits from the exclusive right will contribute to the financing of the additional costs associated with business unprofitable postal services. Sweden is required to distribute the item five days a week, compared with six in Norway. Despite the fact that the requirement is already lower in Sweden than in Norway, we see that the Post Sweden is asking the Swedish authorities for further relief. This is a clear expression that Sweden has a much stronger competition in the important areas of exclusive rights than Norway. Six-day distribution and equal postage may seem obvious to many. That's how we're used to the Post being and having been. The previous government wanted to change this. We want to continue a well-functioning postal service that is accessible to everyone, with good services and reasonable prices. The opposition persists after taking from the Post exclusive of letters under 50 grams. There is a check-and-check rhetoric that people who are thrown out on deep water learn to swim quickly. It's possible that it can often be the result, but many times the result is also very sad. I think it's important that the Post spends time on the transitions and challenges they face. There have been changes in the Post office soon for 20 years. It has been important that they have spent time. It is not desirable to facilitate actors operating only in the population-based areas of Norway, thus evading the flow of the postal market. The majority regard the exclusive right of individual consignments of less than 50 grams as an important prerequisite for the continuation of unit and six-day carriage. An abolition of the exclusive right would have to mean a major transfer of State to the Post if the unit portfolio and the carry-over of six days were to be maintained. Therefore, it is important that the opposition clarify whether they are willing to use more tax credits to finance the Item only to allow private companies to make large sums of money in cities and densely populated areas. The entry is one of Norway's largest enterprises. This gives the Post a special responsibility, both as a key job in many smaller places and as a state-owned job, and thus a job that should be an example for other employers and employees. The majority have noticed that the Post also meets these expectations in many areas. The message allows for 124 post offices to be closed or converted into Post in Store. This will mean that 450 annual works in the post office network disappear. Many of the employees affected by this are people who have reached the age of 50. A large proportion are women with low education. It is an experience group that has difficulty getting out of work again if they first become unemployed. The ‘New State’ Fafo report shows that disability and sick leave are increasing significantly in conversion processes. This is important to try to avoid. Former governments have not done their job in this area. For this reason, it has been an important objective of this government and this vast majority that it should not happen this time and that no one should be in unemployment or social security schemes as a result of the proposed relocations. An important contribution to avoiding this has been that the Council of State has had a good dialogue with its employees. The red-green parts of Stortinget have also benefited greatly from a good cooperation with Postcom in the work on this communication. It has been important for Postcom that NAV can be involved in early conversion work. It is very important that this is put in place. It is important that NAV is informed that they must now start re-training and provide support from the time when it is clear who is going to be overwhelming and that this should be done on the basis of the local labour market. The item and the employees have reached a conversion agreement. It is important that this is followed up, and that as much as possible all parties are involved in the work and gain insight into the process, so that as much as possible can be helped and new opportunities for work and education can be ensured. The return requirement for the Item is also amended in this notification, so that the Item retains more of the surplus. It's positive. It could help the Post to better deal with the challenges of conversion. It is important that the reduced return on the parent company benefits the underlying companies. In the first instance, these facilitations should be used to assist in the conversion and to ensure that this is not carried out too quickly. Post in Stores has been regarded by many as very positive. In several places, increased access has been provided, and longer opening times have also been provided. In this round, it is suggested that post offices are converted to Post in Store in a one-to-one relationship. That is, in the majority's opinion, a minimum. There have been concerns about mass shipments. It is important to stress that Post in Store, where there is a need to send mass shipments without good alternatives, facilitates this in the same way as today. It is important that the development around Post in Store is followed in the years that come. There is a very large proportion of the infrastructure in the postal office network that is now privatised, and there is cause for concern if only local network operators in the Post Office can dictate their terms. The web depends on whether the chains find it profitable to continue with Post in Store. There are currently roughly four food chains in Norway that rent out premises for the Post Office. In many places there is no competition between these, and an even greater conversion to Post in Store may reduce the possibility of political governance. Through the climate announcement and the climate agreement, Stortinget and the Government have ordered everyone to take climate responsibility. The post office has a large building mass and a large vehicle park. Changes in how to deal with this could bring great climate benefits, and it is important that the Post develops existing and new buildings as energy-efficient buildings. A vehicle owned by the Post itself or used in the service of the Post should use the best available environmental technology at all times. The entry should also consider the introduction of own fleets of vehicles using climate-neutral or CO2 neutral fuels. Several truck manufacturers guarantee the use of biofuels. This is something that's good to use if you have your own big fleets. The post should, like everyone else, in the years to come, work harder to improve on the environment, better on the climate. The majority, including the Workers' Party, are otherwise very satisfied with this communication and support the assessments to the Council of State and the Department of the Development of the Post. It is important that we do not move too quickly, that we do not now introduce EEA rules until we have to. It has now proved to be correct to keep it in this area. The post office is today the largest mail company in the Nordic region, a postal company that others are afraid of. Sometimes it can be good to be a big brother. I think we should keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e297	I notice that the representative of Wickholm is talking about government ownership as a management tool, and that the Workers' Party is pleased with the message. This is a notice that, in addition to telling us that the State company has become, through some years of effective conversion, a reasonably effective company in a competitive world, is also a notice of closure of 124 post offices. Is that the Soria Moria reality? Is the Workers' Party well pleased with the solution that 124 post offices are placed over the whole country, because the Post continues its good transition? Does this mean, then, that the Workers' Party joins in the continuation of the company's long-standing change in a competitive world, and does it have no particular objection to the actual continuation of this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e302	It is very difficult for the Workers' Party to do something about the existence of competition in the world. Had the Workers' Party been able to do anything about it, I do not think the Workers' Party would have wanted to do anything about it. The representative of Sortevik makes this as if the Workers' Party is opposed to conversion. It's a bit of a difficult reality for me to take over, because it's because in all the big changes that have happened in our society in the last 50 years, the Workers' Party has been leading and has helped to find good transition solutions. Now that we have to convert even more within the Post, in order for the network there to evolve in the way that the Post finds it best, the Workers' Party also wants to contribute. But then it is important for the Workers' Party that this change is done in a good way, that employees are taken care of, that good solutions are also found for employees, so that they get into another job or get a good offer of training and new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e311	Representative Wickholm's post cheese of contrasts. On the one hand, the Post Norway will be protected from competition, on the other hand, the representative boasts that the Post Norway has become the largest logistics group, or the post group, in the Nordic region, just by entering densely populated areas in Sweden, could compete effectively with the Swedish Post, etc. Does not the representative Wickholm see any contradiction in this? Does he believe that it is the task of the State to ensure that the Post is protected from competition for so long that they may be excluded from the markets of other EEA countries, as is actually provided for in the EU directive currently under consideration? Isn't it time to look a little ahead and not always turn back and look at the evolution that has been? When we see that the Post actually manages to compete, shouldn't they get freer lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e318	It is clear to me that the Post has been able to compete very well with the ropes they have today. They have, as the representative of Greece here points out, managed to become the largest postal company in the Nordic region. They do it very well every day, with these so-called ropes that Greece refers to. If you were to follow Greece's rhetoric, the Post should have been Sweden's largest and best mail company in the Nordic region. The post Sweden has been given exactly the conditions that the representative of Greece is asking for, but has not done as well in the market in the Nordic region. The right has always been looking to rock the Nordic model, but now it turns out that Norway is also one of the most competitive countries internationally. I think it would be very wise if we maintained the arrangements we have for the Post Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e325	The representative, Mr Wickholm, said several times that he was very concerned. The working party is concerned that the four chains are going to take over too much of the Post Office's business, and what will happen to it. Concerns are expressed about business and mass shipments, and questions about how to deal with them in the future. The Christian People's Party shares the concerns of the Workers' Party. We are also involved in comments with the majority and share these concerns. The problem is the relationship between word and action, because here one makes the opposite true. You're worried, but you put down 124 post offices that could have been involved and helped to alleviate those concerns. Is it that you keep your eyes open and are on the move in the blind?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e332	To keep your eyes on the road and be on the road is rather a description of the Christian People's Party's last participation in the government, where they would cancel the Post Office's ability to have the exclusive right to send letters below 50 grams. Otherwise, to what the representative here clearly asks, I don't think there's any contradiction between being concerned about something, saying that you see certain challenges with something, and nevertheless agree with it. I mean in all respects that it bears witness to wisdom. You see that you have to go in one direction to follow a development that's quite clear. However, it is important to point out that that trend represents certain challenges. If you don't express them clearly and are honest with yourself about what it is, it will also be very difficult to handle it. That is why I think it was important today to also express some concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e339	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e342	The entry Norge AS is an exciting development. From being a traditional state company that has performed its carefully defined tasks, the Post is becoming an international logistics group. This is a development that much resembles Telenor's development after they became a corporation. The big question in this debate should therefore be: Should the Post develop further, should the company acquire private capital on the owner's side, or should we try to slow down development, go against the flow, stop development and ask the Post to concentrate on the good old mail delivery? I'm sitting with the feeling that the red-green parties in the committee are looking with great scepticism at the development of the post; one thing is that they're going to doubt the monopoly of letters under 50 grams as far as possible, with the consequences it can have for the post office. Another thing is that they are not involved in remarks that in illustrative order mention the conversions, rationalizations and efficiency improvements the Post has been through in recent years. The rapporteur, Mr Hoksrud, made a very moderate observation on which the opposition gathered: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Left will point out that the Post Norway AS has had a positive development in recent years. [[...]] [[...]] Employment has improved over the period 2003-2006. This has been done, inter alia, by reducing costs and buying-in of companies. These members are very pleased with this development. However, these members would also point out that the traditional postal and banking services operated by the company are becoming an increasingly smaller part of the company's business. At the same time, the use of these services is also declining due to changes in the need for some of the traditional postal services. These members would point out that an increasing proportion of the activities of the Post Norway AS are in areas where competition is currently full, and that only about half of it. 12 pst. of the company's activities are now in the traditional postal service area.» The red-greens replied that they were satisfied: «The majority of the Committee is pleased that the Post Office is doing well and that good results can be demonstrated. [[...]] The majority would point to the positive development of the Post Norway in recent years. Employment has improved steadily over the period 2003-2006.’ But they couldn't join in pointing out that some changes in the Post actually have been made, that a lot of work has been done to improve profitability, etc. It shows that the majority in this hall actually feel that the Post is in a little scary development, where they are offensive, where they make money, where they rate on other business. Right means that only reaches 12 pst. of the Post is in the traditional postal service area, it is time to see if the Post Norway has the right ownership. We therefore want the Government to investigate the potential of a partial privatisation of the Post. Had it been the Stoltenberg I government that had got this challenge, there could have been a certain chance that they seized it, but with Stoltenberg II's dogmatic attitude toward private solutions and ideological resistance to innovation, the chances are small. The entry Norge AS today appears to be an international postal and logistics group operating its main business in open and increasing competition and increasingly in the Nordic market. State ownership is neither a necessity nor a prerequisite for a government postal offer. Some countries in Europe, including Denmark, have opted for the partial privatization of the former State-owned postal company. The post Sweden and Post Denmark have now decided to merge, in order to stand stronger when the post-monopoly disappears in 2011. 100 pst is not necessary. state ownership to ensure a comprehensive postal service offer at a reasonable price and of good quality. Within the postal segment, Posten's exclusive rights services were 28 pst. of turnover in 2007. Now the same segment represents a much lower proportion. In 2000, the post segment stood for 75 pst. of revenue, with a halved share in 2007 to 38 pst. Over the same time period, the overall social objective of the postal area is well taken care of. If necessary, the State may pay undertakings to produce the services requested. In particular, this applies to ‘services of general economic interest’ because public financing of such services is specifically regulated alongside the general prohibition of public aid in the EEA Agreement. On the right, the Ministry’s reference to the Post Strategy has also noted that there are indications of reporting to the owner and that there is a high level of caution in assessing strategic investments outside the Nordic market. With an exclusive rights area that in a few years is likely to include only 10 pst. of the group's activities, it seems quite unnecessary for the State to carry on 100 pst. ownership of a large postal and logistics group with 90 pst. of its activities in open competition and increasingly operating on the Nordic market. On this basis, we believe that the Government must present a matter of government sale in the Post. It's worth noting the tearing development Telenor got after the partial privatization. I find it hard to see that it should be different for the Post Office. Mail delivery six days a week and a good service offer throughout the country are a prerequisite from our side as well. Post in Store has become such a great success that even former opponents praise the scheme - yes, in fact they are also trying to take credit for the arrangement. The right supports the proposal that up to 124 post offices can now be converted into Post in Store. It is important to stress that the over 400 staff who become persuasive during the conversion are well followed by the Post itself and by NAV. It is also important that the Post is given opportunities to develop its service provision in areas where you can see opportunities, and that the Post is not charged with tasks that others can do better. In a country close to 100 p.m. Whereas the population now has access to broadband, and where banks are at the forefront of developing online services, it should not be necessary to subsidise banking operations in the name of the Post Office; It is DnB NOR that operates the postal banking offer today, the post office itself does not have a strong desire to continue its banking operations. Therefore, we believe that bank operations should be taken out of the concession requirements of the Item. As regards Posten's monopoly on conveying letters of less than 50 grams, the red-greens doubt that this must be kept as far as possible. The Storting message about the Post was submitted before the Swedish and Danish post offices merged. This merger updates the state of competition of Post Norway AS. The entry Norge AS has established itself as a major player in the Nordic market and it is important that the company be able to meet the competition that the merger involves. Konsernschef Dag Mejdell will be speaking in Postavisen on 4 April 2008: ‘There is no doubt that the merger is directed towards our expansion in the two countries. This gives a new Swedish postal company with lower costs and stronger muscles to compete on our home track - in Norway.’ The right considers that the merger must lead to Norway opening up free competition by letter of less than 50 grams as soon as possible, as the Post itself has expressed its wish, in order to ensure that the Post is the best placed to compete in our neighbouring country and that the Post gains experience on the domestic market before the EU's proposed liberalisation is introduced in all EU/EEA countries. The EU has decided that all postal services from 2011 should be open to free competition but that it is possible to postpone the deployment until 2013. The State that owns must enable the Post Norway to meet the competition when free competition is open to all postal services in 2011 or 2013. Instead, it seems that the government parties are closing their eyes and hoping that it will pass. The Government of Stoltenberg II has previously converted the decision of Stortinget to terminate the exclusive right of Posten Norge AS. The European Parliament has decided to liberalise the postal market, and this will affect Norway through the EEA Agreement. The directive expected to be adopted this spring is expected to contain a clause allowing countries liberalising to refuse national concessions to postal operators from countries that choose to postpone liberalisation for up to two years. According to the Posten's own data, Norway AS, which actively buys up its business in the Nordic region, could be affected by such a provision in Denmark if Norway postpones liberalisation. That is why we believe that one must abolish the exclusive right of the Post, in line with the proposal that has been made. In this case, we are clearly shown the government's fear of competition and private solutions. Instead, the majority always stresses that the Post should be a tool for the State. But the state has full jurisdiction. The State may determine the concession terms of the Item. The state can impose Posten unitsporto, six days of mail transport and other things. But the state cannot impose on the Post to make money. The entry Norge AS today appears to be a professional group, a group that can bring a lot of joy to the treasury in the years to come, but it must then be allowed to evolve and not become part of a red-green ideological crusade against competition and modernisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e393	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the representative of Greece for helping to interpret the comments and to conduct a complex textual analysis in this regard. It's not like the representative of Greece claims, that the government and the red-greens are now doing something they're really against. It's going to be a little bit of a hard logic to put forward. But I want to ask the representative of Greece: when there is not to be an exclusive right to write under 50 grams, there is likely to be a need for funding. How is this to be done? Is it Norwegian taxpayers who are going to finance the competition that Schenker or Deutsche Post will be allowed to make money in Norway? And if he's also going to let others into the owner's page in the Post Norway, wouldn't it just be a direct transfer from the Treasury to these private owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e398	This clearly shows the lack of understanding of the representative, Mr Wickholm, for a dynamic market. What will happen if the Post is allowed to evolve - get a hope then, one doesn't know, but one hopes - is what I ended up saying in the post, that if we get private owners, like in Telenor, we will get a bigger dynamic in the company, and we will get more earnings. The state will take in much of what it may have to spend through both tax revenue and other income by having six days' postal and unit portfolios, so I think the accounts for Norway AS will be positive, by the development of the Post. The alternative is that the Post Norway AS will be extinguished by e.g. the Swedish-Danish company, by Deutsche Post or by others. I believe that now that the Post is in such a good development, we must take the opportunity to give them freer lines, to give them the opportunity to compete, to give them the opportunity to become a leading group internationally, as Telenor has become.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e403	I think that with the «modern and further developed» policy that one claims that Right stands for, the Post may be extinguished by global companies. But with the radical policy that this government stands for, we prevent it by saying that this will be our own, because we think it is important for the community to get the money that's left over. And so, to my question: what crystallizes itself is that the Progress Party, the Left and the Right now are in line with what, to put it correctly, was modern in 2001, in the Stoltenberg I government, but which is now immature, for now there are more communities and community values, not market liberalism. And to talk about this with dogmatics, one can be a pure'ml-ar' as well - i.e. a market liberalist - as it appears to be Helleland, and it has its political consequences. But is it the case now that the Left, the Progress Party and the Right are ending up on this policy and acting on a government where we are getting more privatisation and more sale of our common property?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e408	The right is open to a government where both the Progress Party and the Left are included, so we look forward to that with great joy. It doesn't seem like the other parties are equally eager, but the right is positive. Otherwise, I am very happy to hear that the representative Langeland gives me the right idea that there is a big difference between the Stoltenberg I and Stoltenberg II government. It shows the great impact that SV has had, by cutting its foot against competition, against competitive outsourcing, against innovation and modernisation. It is a direct result of SV's participation in the Government and shows that the analysis I actually tried to give in my post, which the representative Wickholm blows off, is correct. It shows that there is a strong resistance to competition in this government; there is a strong resistance to letting the market loose a little more. Therefore, the representative of Langeland has done a very good job, but unfortunately, it is a bad job for the development of the Norwegian economy and the development of the Posten Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e415	The Christian People's Party has taken on board the fact that it is moving towards the liquidation of the exclusive right of the Post, and we are also fully aware of the past we have in the field. The argument has been that the Post itself will have a faster winding-up, and it has also been argued by the Advance Party and the Right in relation to winding-up already in 2007 - now it is likely to be 2008. But now I see in the evening post yesterday that the group manager Mejdell is the interview, where he says the following: ‘It’s okay to wait until 2011 with full liberalisation of the letter market in Norway. [[...]] - We need that time to prepare for increased competition and lower costs. We have falling profitability in the distribution of letters and need to do something about it." Why then stress the liquidation of the exclusive right before 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e425	Now the named group leader is in the diplomat lodge today, and he could probably elaborate on this himself, but I feel that the Post Norway has been very clear that they want a faster conversion. But the Post Norway is living in a state system, where there is a red-green majority who, with Hallgeir H. Langeland in the head, perform ideological pissing, and thus it is natural that a group leader also adapts to the existing regime. I am more surprised that the Christian People's Party has so completely turned down, in this case. From being a party involved in a necessary conversion of the Post Office, the representative Sahl has now decided that the 124 post offices proposed to be closed will continue to exist, and that there will be at least 300 post offices - where he has now received that number - in Norway. It has to be a swirling operation of dimensions-- probably done to irritate the center part.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e430	The cord shift is over. The President thanked the representative of Langeland for his greeting!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e433	I would like to say that an exaggerated SV's role is something, although not very much, in the ideological struggle that is going on, but there is no doubt that there was another time in several parties in 2001, when Statoil, among other things, was. were privatised, including: Right was on that project and privatized Statoil. But there were also things happening in the trades movement and out there among most people that made one another hold to the community's values, and not only thought like the right side, that it was important to privatize and make sure that those who were already rich got even more money in the cash register, which they didn't need. That fundamentals I think were some reason why the Right lost the election, while the trade union movement and SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party won because they stand for the community and not for market liberalism and egoism. This I think one has to include in addition. Although SV obviously does not want the Post to be an AS, I would like to start by giving credit to the Post, not least to those who add it, but also to the board and the management board, and to the director who has dropped using what he produced before to change the Post - he works earlier in Dyno. This has been successful. I also think we have had a good dialogue with both the Post and the addendum. Not least, the political leadership in the Ministry of Transport, but also the red-green parties on the Stortinget, has played a role in getting what we have today, where one does not get the dramatic cuts in the number of additions that one would get if the Right, Left and Advance Party had ruled in Norway. Then one set of completely different figures in the closure of post offices, banking services, etc., and I'm glad that we've managed to prevent it by having a government that sees Community values and district policy over the profits of rich people in Norway and in the world. The climate agreement is central and mentioned in the setting. What is important for me to say from this pulpit is that the bulk of the population has decided that up to two thirds of greenhouse gas emissions will be taken in Norway. It means that all people need to make an effort. The Community must make an effort. The post must make an effort. That's what I want to challenge the Post especially on. It is mentioned in the setting, but I think the Post itself has played a role, and they can play an even more active role in minimizing the desire of the majority to promote greenhouse gas reduction measures. There I would like an even stronger effort, and I hope that a stronger effort will be made in that area in the future. We have an ideological conflict that Greece has been in. That's absolutely right. It's knotted, among other things. to the EEA Agreement and the EU. Many of those who are in favour of EU membership are precisely in favour of what Greece is talking about, namely that the market will have a greater impact, that it will be free to move, but one within a number of low-income groups sees that what happens is that one gets a free flow of low pay. It's good for someone who has a lot of money and who owns it, but it's not good for the employee. There are several judgments now that have actually ensured that workers’ rights are weakened in the EU. It's a wish situation for the right, but it's a very negative development for those who are occupied with trades, professional dishes and most people. But I understand, of course, that the Right and Right sides, the Left and the Advance Party are occupied with this and are positioned in this way in relation to a future government. Although the Left is clear that they should not be in government with the Progress Party, at least this is an area where they are quite a few that privatization is a fraud and district policy is stupid. Because there is no doubt that that policy will lead to centralisation, and where the market is large, the service will be good. Where there are little people, the service will be worse. It's the logic of capitalism. The conclusion is that the red-green government has listened to them. We have listened to the mail lead that has come with a balanced solution for the Post, with which I believe people most will be very pleased, where the community is branded, and where the dishes added are cared for as well as possible. We now have a post message that gives the board, the director and the board of directors and they add new challenges to the Post. They've dealt with it before, and I'm absolutely sure they're pinning it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e446	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e449	I've previously accused Langeland of being a bit religious-fanatic. I'm not going to do that now, but that Langeland is concerned with state glory, there's probably not much doubt when you know where SV is in this context. I also register that SV is fully committed to what is in the proposal to close 124 post offices in a company where the state owns 100 pst. Then the representative was Langeland within the climate and the climate challenges. Then you almost have to ask the question: is it now that all of the Post's cars are going to switch to biofuels, or what is Langeland thinking about? I'm not sure if it's as tricked anymore when you look at the consequences. Does not Langeland also see that it is important to have competition, when it is known that the competitive areas of the Post actually are the ones that will finance the few percentages that will eventually remain in the field of exclusive law? Is it not as good to get full competition, that the Post is given the opportunity to develop further, so that you can meet the challenges you are looking forward to?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e458	The market liberalisation lists, like the Progress Party, are occupied by those who want more market, those who already have a lot of money, so that they can make even more money. The philosophy behind it is that they want to be part of and develop society reasonable anyway. We who are socialists, think different. We believe that if most people are to have more influence, more democracy, a reduction in market power must not increase it. We are therefore opposed to the EU, to the EEA Agreement and to what is promoting market power. When it's about biofuels, I registered that there was a debate at the national meeting of the Progress Party, where one was concerned about people in the third world -- they called it well to go over equal, if one introduced this. What is important then for the Progress Party is not to cut the aid budget, so that there is no real help for those who need help. So it's of course to be involved and contribute to the development of second-generation biofuels, so that the Post can put it into use. For SV, it is important that the Post becomes more environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e466	The installation to Langeland was an interesting review of the red-green relationship with the employees and the management of the Post. To me it was heard, through the gratitudes Langeland came along, as if it had almost been introduced a new form of board, where the board and general assembly are of course in place, but that it was through meetings with Langeland and the red-green parties that the Post had changed its attitude to different things. Is it so now that the representative of Langeland, who says that he really wants to remove the AS and withdraw Norway from the EEA Agreement, would have liked it to have been such that the representative of Langeland could almost instruct the management of the Post with his more or less good proposals? One of the proposals contained in the comments is to ban unaddressed advertising, which is one of the largest sources of income in the Post. Will this lead to the Post being more competitive?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e473	I don't know if one comes so far to demonstrate Langeland, but the ideological debate that Right also raises, that more modernisation is equal to more market, I attack as a bad solution if one wants people to live in the districts, and if one wants most people to be okay. But it's a very good solution for good, old-fashioned right-wing people, who are most concerned about the fact that the people we have in Norway are going to get tax havens and not have wealth taxes -- such important things for people who don't need more money. On the other hand, the SV and the red-green government are more busy by most people, that they should be okay, that employees should not go on luseløn. And then we'll get to tax our best friends to Greece as well as we can, so that we get money for community solutions, including good postal services in Norway. So here, there's a clear ideological difference. We bet that most people will get the best possible, Right bets on their friends: Hagen and other rich people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e480	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e483	We sing in a song that "this is what we've been waiting for so long, yes, so long," and it's actually true when it comes to the Poster's activity message. Here you propose the closure of 124 post offices, and I assume that strong draw fights within the Government are the reason we get the message now, approx. One year after we thought it would come. The Christian People's Party disagrees with the closure of the 124 post offices, and we propose that the number of post offices be maintained at today's level. We believe that the government is passing a pain threshold for the closure of the post office in Norway, and I am going to come back to it. Let me first stress that the Christian People's Party is essentially supporting the main lines drawn up for the Post, as stated in the message. In recent years, Norway AS has had a positive development, and I am pleased that the policies of the previous government in this area have produced good results and are continued in the communication that has now been presented. Many have, among other things: Very good experience with Post in Store. Several places this has become a good and popular offer. Further efforts should be made at Post in Store, both in terms of content and scope. When it is now added that the current Post in Store is being upgraded, the problem is that the upgrade according to the Christian People's Party's view is too modest. It is mainly limited to the introduction of cultural tickets. There is nothing wrong with cultural tickets, it is a good and important offer, but it is not enough to meet either the needs of individuals or businesses in full. The expansion and further development of Post in Stores must therefore be made as an addition to, and not at the expense of, today’s post office structure. Today's 300 post offices are for the Christian People's Party a limit that was set by the previous government, and that we thought would be fixed. The government's proposals for halving the number will have a number of adverse effects, especially for people in the districts and for business. The post is a social institution with an important societal mission. The entry shall be visible in the place where people live, in order to provide postal services, but also in order to enhance the legitimisation of the Post in the population. With the Government's proposal for closure, the Post is in danger of weakening its own brand. In addition, the Post is exposed to undue competition. This can be used to set the Long term performance of the Post. This case clearly shows that the Center Party once again is flat in district policy. Once again, the Center Party is sacrificing the good center values of a government that is overrun by District Norway. It is amazing that a central government council can live with this. When the centre party was in opposition, the party was strongly critical of the privatisation of postal services. Central Central Party people promised to reverse the privatisation of the Post if the Central Party came into government, and on 18 December 2003, Central Party leader Åslaug Haga spoke from this pulpit: ‘What we in the Centre Party cannot understand is that conversions are to be made in such a way that it is always the districts that lose.’ The Christian People's Party is not opposed to conversions - we also showed that in this case when we were in government - but now it is the districts that are losing. If the government gets what it wants, 650 jobs will disappear. Many of these jobs are located in District Norway. For the Christian People's Party, the preservation of a living community is a choice of values. That is why we also provided for the relocation of state supervision when we were in government. But instead of fulfilling its electoral promise of 6,000 new jobs in the districts, the government, with a central government council at the head, removes 650 jobs. To take the then representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's words about the Christian People's Party in my mouth in the previous period: the centre party is not to be recognized. Today, the representatives of the Central Party in Stortinget can demonstrate their commitment to district policy by voting in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party. There are many around in District Norway who are now worried that their post office will disappear. With the proposals of the Christian People's Party, none of them will be gone. I am addressing the proposal that we are alone in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e510	The representative Jan Sahl has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e515	The representative Jan Sahl claims in his statement that the Post is in danger of weakening his own brand, and that the Post is subject to undue competition by the closure of post offices. Is not the representative of Jan Sahl, as a district representative from the Nordic counties, more concerned that winding up the exclusive rights of the Post will weaken the districts in particular? I don't think this is related. The Bondevik II government, the only way to get these things done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e520	It follows from the position that the Christian People's Party is not in favour of the proposal to go in to terminate the exclusive right of the Post. In this area, we take seriously the Posten's desire to retain the exclusive right until 2011. So we really believe that now that we put down half of the post offices that are left, the Post actually weakens the legitimacy of the population. We see that the Post is out and competing in the Nordic countries and in Europe, taking large parts of the market in the Nordic countries. It's very good, but we must not forget our home market. We must not forget that we are going to serve the Norwegian population, that the Postmark is still going to be around in District Norway, and that the services are going to be done by the Post's own people. We also believe that the Post is subject to undue competition because other operators will take over the market here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e527	When I heard the representative Sahl, there were two expressions that ran in my mind. One was that attack is the best defense, and the other was that on itself you know others. But when the representative, Sahl, refers to the relationship of the Central Party with the content of the notification, he should at least be right in saying that it is a party that actually commits an equal political salto as the Christian People's Party does. As far as I can remember, the representative asked the President-in-Office of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities for recognition. What is the recognizability of the Christian People's Party - which thus contributed to the continued liberalisation and further conversion of the Post Norway? Now the Christian People's Party will not add a single post office to an important conversion process for the Post Office in order to survive effectively in a growing competition, and they have even calculated that we must have at least 300 post office state driven in Norway. It is a political salto that I am asking the representative of Sahl to comment on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e534	I have not calculated anything as to how many post offices we are going to have in Norway. In the previous government, where the Christian People's Party was a participant, after negotiations - in a cooperative government - we agreed that we should set the limit at 300 post offices. The Christian People's Party perceived it as a reasonable number of post offices spread throughout the country, where the Post was visible in its own majesty, to say so. When the Stoltenberg II government now halves this, it is no wonder that the Christian People's Party reacts to it. The Christian People's Party wants to preserve the Post as a strong state owned company. When it comes to sales, we listen to what the Post has asked for. The post itself has requested to retain the exclusive right until 2011 in order to prepare for the competition. That is why we are not in favour of the sale proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e541	I think the Christian People's Party has a constructive position in this matter, but it is quite clear that the conclusion to this is that the Christian People's Party must be very much in favour of one having a red-green government. Because with the policy of the comrades that one had in the previous government, in Bondevik II, if the party of Sahl had been in government, it would have been the closure of significantly more post offices than it is today. This government has cooperated with them and with the leadership to achieve a balanced solution, where one does not lay down as many post offices as the Christian People's Party intended to do when they were in position. So my question is, is this an invitation to the red-green government, so that it is those who have the best policy when it comes to privatisation, supply and services in the districts, or is it something else? In any case, there's something completely different than what one stood for a couple of years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e548	It really surprises me if the representative Langeland saw my post as an invitation to the red-green government, to a stronger cooperation. My post just gave a clear message to the red-green government that this is a wild road when one now halves the number of post offices in the country, with the consequences it has on the domestic competitiveness of the Post. Otherwise, we're essentially responsible for what the previous government put in place. Yes, we actually stand for it, except for what goes on the liquidation of the exclusive right. We now choose to listen to the Post itself say that they are well served to prepare for the competition that comes in 2011 and will therefore not go in to remove the exclusive right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e556	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e559	The postal services have been basic infrastructure for centuries, and I will allow myself to draw some historical lines at the beginning of this article. Nearly three hundred years ago, the post horn was introduced here in the country, and the horn was used to alert gatekeepers and other travelers that the mail was coming. Then it was just to open gates and gates and keep the road clear, for the post office was going - then as it is. But it was in the cities the mail arrived fastest, much of the country had no regulated postal service all at home. In 1885 the country post office was established, and the number of rural post offices increased rapidly. In 1920, there were 2,000 country post offices in the country. These were 20 pst. of all added to the Post Office. Now, as we just rounded a new millennium, the number was about 8 pst. Today, when we are discussing the future of Post AS, there is a time when there are new possibilities, but still in a country that has largely the same challenges associated with construction patterns and geographical distances as fifty years ago. That's why we in the Center Party are concerned that the Post is going to be well able to maintain the interests of people and industries throughout our long-term and time-consuming country. There is no goal in itself to keep smaller post offices. The most important thing is that the post office comes clean up at the right time. If we look back in time again, it was just 5 pst. of rural post offices that had a car in 1958, while it was 85 pst. which had it in 1973. This provided the basis for many smaller post offices to be laid down without weakening the mail delivery. Development of means of production develops the services, and there are consequences for how we organize them. This is how we look at the Post in Store system, which has been shown to be a successful innovation with well-satisfied customers. The center party was skeptical when the order was introduced - there are several people who have pointed this out - but we believe that the system has worked as a good substitute for some post offices, and is not against others being converted. But it's important to make sure that there's not every place this fits best. In some municipalities with a post office that is now to be converted to Post in Store, it may be available at more than one location. In addition, we believe that one must consider whether to create Post in Store in places where there is no post office today, because the needs must be met where they are. Last year the focus was on the fact that the letter mail did not arrive in time for the concession requirements. It seems that the post office has taken good care of this. Ensuring the quality of services is important in order to maintain the legitimacy of the Post as a State-owned limited liability company. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the dissemination of advertising should not be decisive as to whether Posten AS is going to be financially viable. The entry should have other and sane legs to stand on. In this way, I take a positive view of the Post Office's plans to meet the competition in the future, including: to take action to strengthen the Nordic market. Finally, I would like to highlight what the message says about the one-rightness of individual shipments below 50 grams. This is an important requirement for the entry to appear six days a week, and for the same amount of money to be sent from. On the day that this is true, we have to look for a dusted posthorn from a drawer, lift it high and blow it hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e583	It was interesting to hear the representative Klinge almost salute what is in the proposal here. It's interesting to notice, because I was actually waiting for a small post rebellion since Klinge's party colleague, per Olaf Lundtägen, said that if the government wanted to lay down a single post office, there would be a riot to preserve these post offices. It's very little I've seen of this post-insurrection. It may well be that there are directives coming from elsewhere, which have made it possible for there to be no postal rebellion on the part of the Centre Party. But doesn't the representative Klinge agree that it's a little strange that it's the Center Party and a central party council that's now going in to shut down 124 post offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e590	As I was inside my post, we in the Center Party were really skeptical. But that was also when there were six post offices in the Surnadal municipality in its time, I think, that were to be laid down - it was ramaskrik for a quarter that was laid down. Now the only thing is going to be converted to Mail in Store. The postman, who has been there for many years, went out in the newspaper and said that this is what he is pleased with, the customers are going to light it up, and this is going well. We in the Center Party can quickly become nostalgic when we think about the time when people used to ride horses and carts, and steamships too, but we realize that the time has passed since that, and I thought we were able to do that now too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e597	I understand that the Center Party refers to the reaction of the employees here. Clearly, employees are well cared for. The Christian People's Party is also very pleased that the employees of this heavy process have been taken into account, but I am not sure that the rapporteurs and the people around these municipalities who are now leaving no post office are equally satisfied. These include: on Hoøyanger, Målø, Sandane, Stryn, Bremnes, Fitjar, Husnes, Inner Arna, Kleppestø, Knarvik etc. - I can walk along the country. I have had many of these rapporteurs on the line - I have had many concerned people on the line, and I have had business on the line. And the Christian People's Party is amazed that the Central Party, which was so critical in the last period, and which gave the Christian People's Party in, so the silent -- I'm not going to take time for more quotes on it -- has turned around. My question is, what is the Central Party answering the peoples who are now turning and wondering what the business situation is going to be like?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e606	I thought it was important to find out that the experiences from Post in Store have come soon. They were not found to this extent in the previous period, of course. We in the Center Party will listen to the experiences that have been made. Then, of course, we should also listen to the concerns that the representative Jan Sahl refers to, because it is not that it would be equally sensible to put down everywhere. Not least, as I was in my article, it can be natural to create more Post in Stores where there is now only one post office and to be converted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e611	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e614	It's strange to be part of this turnaround to the Center Party -- from standing on the barricades, as we've heard more talk about here today, to retain all the post offices to sit in a majority government that shut down 124 post offices. Then we can go from reading the record from the debate we had here in Stortinget on June 9, 2006, where the goal was to reverse the Posten's offensive bet, to read St.meld. No 12 for 2007-2008, in which conversion, competitive activities, conversion and efficiency in the Post is praised. A little rust for the foresight of the Bondevik II government, I think the red-greens could show in a day like this. The left is part of the proposal to terminate the exclusive right of Posten Norge AS. This is in line with the policy of the Bondevik II government. The proposal was updated by the merger concluded between the Post in Sweden and Denmark. As the Postpaper writes on April 4th, there will be even tougher fights in the Nordic region. This must lead to Norway opening up free competition by letter of less than 50 grams as soon as possible, as the Post itself has expressed its wish. Now there are different definitions of what the Post wants, but at least that's how we interpreted the Post in the Left. This should be done to ensure that the Post Norway AS is best placed to compete in our neighbouring countries and that the Post acquires experience on the domestic market before the proposed EU liberalisation is introduced in all EU and EEA countries. The left is aware that the EU has decided to open all postal services from 2011 to free competition but that it is possible to postpone the introduction until 2013. We must therefore enable Posten Norway to meet the competition. The liberalisation directive is expected to be adopted in spring 2008. The Directive will probably contain a clause allowing countries that liberalise to refuse national concessions to postal operators from countries that choose to postpone liberalisation for up to two years. According to the Posten's own data, Norway AS, which is active in the Nordic region, could be affected by such a provision in Denmark if Norway postpones liberalisation, as the representative of Greece was also involved. I hope that the Minister for Transport will touch on this in her contribution if she perceives this concern as exaggerated. The left is not happy that the revenue of the Post is largely based on the distribution of advertising, in line with other lots. Paper advertising for consumables is not positive for the climate. Developments will be in the direction that this will not be a source of income in the future. The majority of the Committee therefore considers it important that the Post and Ministry be aware of this and look for other solutions and sources of income. However, the left is sceptical about imposing specific restrictions on the distribution of advertising on a single enterprise. The new marketing law should treat market actors equally with regard to these issues. The Left agrees with the Right and the Advance Party that state ownership is not a prerequisite for a government-determined offer. But in the Left's view, that's not an argument for sales. The left does not see the same parties making arguments for what social improvements we achieve with a government sale in this round. The right hand party and the Progress Party will abolish the concession requirements of the Post Norway on the obligation to maintain full value banking services. This is justified by the fact that new technology has ensured that impositions by the State are no longer present to the same extent as they were when the Posten received these orders in its time. Once again, the proposal is justified on the grounds that the present system is not necessary, but there is no argument as to the possible positive effects of the proposal. That is why the Left will not support this proposal today either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e635	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e638	The representative tending to think the red-green should be a little rusty to the Bondevik government and perhaps give her some brilliance - it should be the case that the Bondevik government proposed to abolish the one-right. But she breathes far from praise for it. The left had the state council in the previous period, and went in strongly to liquidate the one-right. After that time, it has been shown that the post office has done very well when you have retained the right to one person. It has also evolved into a large Nordic company. Doesn't Borghild tend the previous government to choose a wrong strategy? Does not Borghild Tenden see that the one-right thing helps both to keep up the ownership portfolio and to finance the unprofitable services around the country, which are also good district policies? So the Tend says once again that this is something the Post itself asks for. I stand here with the Evening Post, which Jan Sahl referred to earlier, where, on the contrary, they say that they need time until 2011 to anticipate the full liberalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e644	I thank you for that question. I'm on the point that the last government did the right thing with those changes. I am very sorry that it will be reversed. It's tempting to ask questions. Of course I won't. Obviously, here's the ideological difference. When it's always referred to what the Post says, I also said from the pulpit, that here's the different interpretations. You obviously read the lyrics very differently. My opinion is that the Post would like to compete. I think I understand the Post and perceive their signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e653	In the Progress Party, we welcome the fact that the Left is united with the Advance Party and the Right in the process of modernising state activities and abolishing the monopoly. We are pleased that today's Left's policy on the Post is recognizable - the same policy that left stood for when they were in government. Will the Left continue the fight and work to modernise the public sector in Norway? Will the Left continue the fight and work to eliminate monopolies in Norway, together with the Progress Party, this year and next year, also in a situation where government cooperation may be relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e660	The left will run the Left policy. I think more statements from the leader of the Left have made that visible. We have faith in the market - but back to the Post: we still want the state to own the Post, but we want the Post to be exposed to competition, even in the case of postage below 50 grams. So that's where we can stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e667	I thought it was very exciting with the Left and Christian People's Party today. The Christian People's Party is trying to appear to be the Center Party, and the Left is united with the Advance Party. So two former government parties are now on a totally different ideological course. The Christian People's Party is trying to appear to be a district-friendly party, the Left as a market-liberalist party, which is united with the Right and the Advance Party on important ideological leaders. It must mean that the Left will have easier to cooperate with the Progress Party and the Right in Government than they want with the Christian People's Party, which appears almost like the Center Party - seen at the head. I would like to comment on that. So I would like to have a comment on the EEA Agreement, for which the left is very much in favour. That agreement forces us to have more power on the market. Is Left satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e672	First to the first question. It's a little strange to hear the SV representative Langeland talk about disagreement in government. If there's any government that's really shown that it has a lot of internal disagreement, it's exactly this government here. So it becomes a little bit weird. In the case of the Christian People's Party, Jan Sahl has explained the views of the Christian People's Party. I have explained the views of the Left. And if the representative had joined my post, he would have heard that the Left stands for State ownership of the Post. It doesn't make the Progress Party and the Right. The left has also not gone in to sell down banking services, as the Progress Party and the Right have done. So it's a little weird that he puts us in the same booth, when he sees that the Left is on the Left's policy. - And then I can't answer the next question, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e679	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e682	During the last 10-12 years, Norway has undergone major changes, changes that have brought with them the need for constant change in the form of changed management mechanisms, operational arrangements and the transformation of the postal network itself. This has been a challenge both for the Post's rental and for the addition, for the Board of Directors and for the Ministry of Transport as its owner. The conversion of the enterprise has resulted in better profitability and increased quality of services, mainly due to efficiency improvements and more purchases. At the same time, parts of the customer mass experience that e.g. changes in sorting unit structure may pose challenges in relation to forwarding time. In the coming years, the Post will meet several economic challenges. The demand for traditional mail and banking services continues to fall, the effects of changes in output in the postal segment have been largely realised, and the Post has a large increase in costs as a labour-intensive enterprise in a tight market. The overarching goal of the Postal Government is to ensure a nationwide provision for the provision of postal and banking services. I suggested that the Post resolve the societal requirements of the concession in a good way, and I assume that the Post is driving rationally, continuously searching for effective solutions on both the income and cost sides, and ensuring that the development of the core business is satisfactory. I welcome the developments that the company has had in recent years, and my Post appears to be a good job, taking on important social and environmental responsibilities and performing its social tasks in a good way. It is Government's policy that Posten Norway AS should be a fully state-owned limited liability company, in order to effectively meet the postal objectives and ensure the efficient operation of the company. This is also important to ensure reasonable and good postal services throughout the country. Previous decisions on the winding-up of Posten’s one-off right to the circulation of correspondence below 50 grams were repealed by the Stortinget in 2006. The government has focused heavily on the quality of the mail distribution in recent years. It was in 2007 and so on. the requirement for regional recording of performance quality. Since then, the Post Office has seen many measures in place to improve the problem. Both the Ministry of Transport and the Post and Telecommunications Authority follow up the Post carefully ahead, and it is a pleasure to see that there is a positive development. It is important for social development that we in Norway have one of the most effective postal services in the world. Post-distribution requirements throughout the country shall be maintained for six days a week and we shall be subject to strict concession requirements for performance quality and unit sport. Good economic development in recent years also shows that the Post is a well-driving company, which has occasionally given very good returns to the state as its owner. However, income and expenses must also be linked in the future. The post must therefore continue to improve the efficiency of the years ahead, but at the same time it has found it necessary to carefully review the post office structure in order to find the best-suited means of providing its universal service in the future. A conversion of up to 124 post offices to Post in Store on a national basis is seen as a necessary efficiency improvement. The Government has agreed that the Post can convert up to 124 post offices, provided that the Post has put in place adequate measures to ensure high-quality services for household and small businesses throughout the country, and at least as well as the provision of the societal tasks in a new structure. No Post conversion shall affect the quality of universal service in any part of the country. The government has also indicated that there will be good dialogue with local authorities in the implementation of the structural changes. It is also foreseen that the conversion will take place in close cooperation with the added and their organisations. A collaboration with NAV was created both centrally and locally, which I am very satisfied with. In this message, the Government adds to a continuation of the system of permits for the government purchase of Ulf postal services for the coming years because the company is required to operate and provide social services that are not economically viable but that have high societal benefits. This also applies to the banking services, which the Post is obliged to provide by law. The State purchase scheme will therefore now also include the additional costs of the Post with the banking services. The government will downgrade the Poster's return requirement for the next few years. In view of the effective management of the state's values and the social responsibility of the Post, I now believe that the requirement must be assessed in the light of the challenges that the enterprise will face in the future, a need to provide quality universal postal services for an economically viable period of time. There have been major changes in the postal and logistics industry and in the markets in which postal companies operate, in the last few years. The former national actors have expanded their business and market areas. The Nordic region is now perceived as a single market. In order to ensure continued profitability and maintain and strengthen the Post Office's position as a preferred supplier of postal and parcel services, the company has been active in recent years through its own expansion and acquisition of businesses in the Nordic region. A more liberalized postal service market has led the Post Office to choose such a Nordic orientation to develop its core business and strengthen its position in Norway and the Nordic countries. The Ministry of Transport supports this strategy. The news recently revealed that the mail companies in Sweden and Denmark have joined forces. There is little doubt that this will be a challenge for Posten Noreg and the Ministry of Transport that owns, but at the same time it confirms the importance of Posten's Nordic bet and strategies for the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e713	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e716	I allow myself to follow up on the question that I asked the central party representative Klinge instead. I record that it quickly became very silent about the so-called uprising of ‘centre partisans’ around the country - perhaps especially from the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen, but also from some central party rapporteurs - who were sceptical that this government would go in to shut down 124 post offices. It may be that it was quickly shut down - in the same way as in a matter we are going to discuss later today. It seems that at the political level in the government quarter, there has been a great deal of activity in cutting down the possibility that a majority in the Grand Duchy will vote differently from what the Government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e725	I can kill the myth that there's been a riot in the Center Party. This matter has been handled by the Council of State. Yes, as pointed out by the representative Sahl earlier, we have spent some time. That is why the result has been good. The service that is provided by the Post is of good quality. We've seen completely different demands for the transformation that's now going to happen than what previous governments have done. We have seen completely different demands in relation to the wishes of the district industry, with which we have had very good dialogue. In the light of what has previously been said from the pulpit about all the requests that have come - especially to the Christian People's Party - it is obvious that there is a Christian People's Party that has contact. I have had very few requests for this conversion. It's understanding that in the time we're in, it has to change. The center part also voted for the previous change, which was far more extensive than what we are now adding, and where there were actually fewer demands than what one does today. There is a hard work at the bottom of the current message.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e739	I would like to commend the Council of State for the conversion to Post in Store that has now been carried out. I think that's a wise policy. At the same time, several of Navarsete's party colleagues here in the Chamber have been concerned that one should avoid government purchases, that one should have a company with its core business. My question concerns banking. The post itself writes in the board statement that the number of transactions in post office banks has declined - from 103 million in 1990 to 18 million in 2005. It's down by 82 pst. At the same time, the Post only has 2 pst. the number of user sites for banking services. Is it good rural policy and good use of taxpayers' money to subsidise banking activities in the Post, when there are many more banking branches around the country than the Post can demonstrate?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e748	What's so amazing about the Post is that we have a system of post-bods, that is. that the bank comes out to people. We have chosen to maintain the banking services in the postal network of district policy considerations, but also of social policy considerations. Not least older people found it difficult to adapt to the new services, which many of us use more. I've had a lot of calls from older people -- including here in the city, in Oslo -- that we don't have to figure out how to remove the banking services from the Post. That's what we've chosen to listen to. So it's both a social policy and a district policy foundation that we have chosen - at least until further notice - to keep the banking services. When it comes to other banks, they remove themselves from the districts. Unfortunately, there are not many branches left around. There are probably fewer banking branches than there are post offices around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e757	I'm not hiding that the Christian People's Party has some problems recognizing the Center Party for the moment. This is about important value issues, about district policy, and about the Post, which we now have to deal with. Representatives of the Minister's party on the matter are concerned -- it's expressed in several contexts. But the minister thinks it is very good that we now put down 124 post offices, and that this is for the benefit of the Post Office. My question is: does not the Minister see the danger that the Post Norway, with this conversion, weakens its own legitimacy in the population, weakens its brand, and is subject to undue competition from other operators in the domestic business market - and in that way does not serve this, but loses?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e766	My answer is no. I could have stopped there, but I'll add a little more. When it comes to being recognizable, it is the Christian People's Party that is not - the Christian People's Party, which would remove the one-right long before we were forced to do so, whether we were going to implement the EEA Directive or not. Does the Christian People's Party talk about competition, when we know that removing one-right would really increase competition and would really beat the legs under the Post Office's ability to provide good services throughout the country? Einrecht is much more important for a stable foundation for good district services than that one replaces the post offices with Post in Butikk, which have great legitimacy, as many of us who have not been in a post office for many years, visitors, and who are to provide even better services in the future - because we saw greater demands than the Christian People's Party intended to make in its reign.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e773	The position of Norway, which is active in buying-in in the Nordic region, may in future be affected by a liberalisation clause in other countries, because Norway protects its own market. In connection with the treatment of Innst. S. No 182 for 2005-2006, maintaining the exclusive right of Post Norway AS, the government parties considered that it is good policy that the Post is given the opportunity to cover the deficit in unprofitable areas with profits from areas with easy distribution and high profits. For example, areas of simple distribution may be: be Denmark. Does the Council agree that it may be good district policy to ensure that the Post Norway has free access to the postal markets of other countries in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e782	The post Norway is currently involved in a Nordic market. But it is not that the revenue that the Post receives from these services is used to ‘subsidise’ undesired postal services. We do not have that type of cross-financing in the Post, unlike in e.g. Avinor. It is also about the possibility we have within an EEA legislation to make such cross-subsidies. Contrary to the previous government, which would take away the right of singleness without considering the consequences it would have, this government wants to look at what the leaders of the EEA Directive put - if it is relevant for Norway to introduce it. And if we're going to introduce it, what transitional rules are we going to have? What requirements should we set? What matters to us is that it's going to be six days post-transmission and equivalent services throughout the country. There's a target this government has, which unfortunately we didn't see so many tracks after in the previous government's mail message.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e789	The area of exclusive rights referred to in this case and in the discussion here is a monopoly area. So the exclusive right is a monopoly for the Post, and most people rarely think monopolies are particularly good. The sole owner's question - because it is the sole owner of the state council, she represents the owner of the Post - is: Does the sole owner not see the consequence that if you strike in Norway against liberalising and removing the monopoly, you can be hit hard in the markets where you are now entering yourself as a competitive player and secure yourself the economy to run well for the Post as a whole? That's the one. The second is: several have referred to alleged statements in the evening post. Is it the Post that they think needs more time to change, or is it the sole owner who thinks that they need more time to change, so that there is a political meaning and not an economic sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e798	First of all, the Council of State has not instructed Director Mejdell to tell you one thing or the other about the time the Post needs. The government has a ready lead on this. We put forward a case for the Storting and got done about the previous government's neck over the head-decision to take away the one-right without looking through all the consequences of it, not least how a sures good service throughout the country. There is a reprisal clause, as it is called, in the case of the Post that the EU is dealing with. Of course, he must be serious. And the assessment that this government is now making is that we have time to go into this -- we can evaluate all the pages, we can get the necessary arrangements to put forward a case that will last the whole country's need for good postal services also into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e805	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e808	This message shows, for example: postal activities and services The postal service has changed slightly over time to meet changing needs and demands of society. The core activity of the post is postal, logistics and ICT services. Falling demand for traditional postal services such as letter mail and banking services, changing customer requirements and consolidation in the industry, triggered among others. However, the fact that large customers want comprehensive communication and logistics solutions covering the whole of the Nordic region affects the core activity and focus of the Post from the national level to the establishment of a competitive position at the Nordic level. In parallel with these developments, the authorities of some European countries have decided to partially privatise the State postal companies and to liquidate the exclusive right in the letter market. I find it interesting to follow this development in postal and logistics services and to see that in this area too, developments have shifted from national objectives and interests to a European and international perspective that will gradually lift borders. While welcoming such developments, it is important to meet national objectives and the need for postal and logistics services. An important objective of the Government in the notification is a good, accessible and effective postal service throughout the country. Good postal services are important for housing and business. The Government, therefore, through public regulation and concession terms, will ensure a nationwide offer for the provision of universal postal services, and considers that the exclusive right to the Post remains important. At the same time, developments show that the use of cross-border services at post offices has fallen sharply in recent years, and forecasts suggest a further decline. This is due, inter alia, to: increased use of alternatives such as e-mail, Internet, online banking and cash withdrawals at the store, which are positive for customers, and not least the districts benefit from the elimination of time and distance constraints. This is a challenge for the Post Office. It is therefore important that the Post is able to adapt to this new situation and meet competition. If the Post does not handle it, it becomes much more difficult to maintain the Post as the central social actor it is in these important tasks for people and businesses in Norway. Competition will increase in the coming years. In our neighbouring country Denmark and Sweden, we see that the Post will be merged to become a stronger player in this market. This will mean new challenges for the Posten Norway. If the Post is to develop further, it must have a healthy economy. It is important that the owners adhere to the policy on dividends adopted so that the company does not deteriorate financially by taking out too much of the profits from the State. It may sound like a festive slogan that ‘the Poster’s job is to go by post, not by profit’, but it is a dangerous slogan for an enterprise that has to live in a competitive world. In order to adapt the activities to market changes while maintaining a well-developed postal offer throughout the country, the Government of the notification provides some guidance for the conversion of the Post Office’s activities. The main thing is that consent has been given for the Post to convert up to 124 current post office to new Post in Store, and for all the current Post in Store to be upgraded, which is absolutely necessary. The sale of cultural tickets shall also be offered, and the Posten’s statutory obligation to provide banking services on its despatch network will be, for example: maintained. The changes will affect employees of the Post, residents, municipalities and businesses. Unlike previous transfers, the Government imposes strict requirements on better processes with employees and with municipalities. It is a clear premise that, after the conversion, the Item shall have at least as good a quote of the services imposed on society as it is today. Furthermore, there is a clear pre-requisite that employees who become persuasive should be offered alternative options to prevent exclusion from the labour market. The post office is also required to cooperate with local authorities. An important perspective on the Post's activities from the owner's point of view is the customer perspective. From the customers' side, these conversions are in line with what is requested. The notification shows that the Post Norway delivers good quality. In the fourth quarter last year was 88 pst. by A-post arriving overnight - better than the concession requirement of 85 pst. When this requirement was introduced in 1999, it was only 75 pst. by the post office that arrived overnight. So overall, the post office has become better for the customers. Postal services are available in more locations than ever and opening hours are longer than before. The experience with the conversion that the Post has been through over the last ten or twelve years is therefore positive, from the customer's point of view. The conversion to post in the store has been successful. It is therefore gratifying that this conversion is now continuing. Finally, I would like to point to the majority's concern that the Post revenue is largely based on the distribution of advertising, something that more and more people do not want in their mailbox. We therefore believe it is important that the Post Office and the Department look for other solutions and sources of income than advertising and distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e838	I think the debate is about to ebb out, and I am not going to use my allocated time to repeat what has already been said in the Stortinget. I'm going to spend a little bit of time giving a little bit of brilliance. Given that the Progress Party is accused of being a little tired of being in opposition, I'd rather boast. There is respect for SV and Hallgeir Langeland when Langeland pulls up the ideological debate and still stands firm and defends an ideology that has killed millions of people, and at the same time allows itself to criticize the market liberalism that has fed, developed and saved millions of people. There is respect for the fact that Hallgeir Langeland insists that this is what is the big difference in this case too, because it reflects that this is what is the challenge in Norwegian policy today. The sitting government has one ideology, and that's that everything should be under public control and should be governed from a political level, while other parties have a different approach. I am therefore pleased that, in this context, the Left in particular is so strongly associated with the Advance Party. I hope that there is a climate in which the Left is approaching the policy of the Progress Party in this area, so that we can find more areas of cooperation, possibly after the 2009 elections. I also want to boast about the Centre Party, especially the representative Klinge, who said clearly and clearly that the Centre Party is adapting to reality. It says respect, and I think it's very nice. What we're talking about, and that has been said many times, is whether to give the Post further work space and opportunities to participate in competition in the future - whether to liberalize more quickly or later. With regard to the article in the Evening Post mentioned several times today, I have also tried to study it. There is nothing in the article to say that the group leader or the Post is opposed to a faster liberalisation. And I think that's very important. Then I actually think the group manager and the post office would have said that you want a longer time. But at least they haven't said that they won't do it in a short time. I think that's very important, because if you're going to assume that you're going to wait a little longer in Norway to facilitate the open competition, the Post would lose its advantage. I think that the large group now in the process of establishing itself in Sweden and Denmark will look at the decision being taken here, and put its strategy in line with it, in order to be as rusted as possible during the period of the Post Norway being excluded. And that's what the Post will lose great competitive advantage on. So it's going to be a little bit wrong to say that the state has to regulate in a way, and that it has to be the one that creates the role, etc. That's what many people have said. Regardless of who operates this company, it is free for the current government and for Stortinget to enter into the concessions that you would like. So you can have control even if you release it a lot more loose. Then I also want to talk a little bit about climate and environment. I'm recording that Hallgeir Langeland is busy with what's written in the setting about it. It concerns the fleet of the Post, that the fleet of the Post must move on to biofuels as quickly as possible. I think that's interesting, because according to the climate agreement on Stortinget - that's true of all parties, besides the Progress Party - it has to be a 2 pst share. biofuels during the year, 5 pst. in the next year and 7 pst. during 2010. I think it's very interesting that the same majority hold on to this goal, especially when one records that the Danish climate minister refuses to fill his biofuel on his mind, because he won't burn up the food for the poor. It is nice to record it - when the Netherlands Minister for Climate Change says that it is not appropriate for the Netherlands to follow up the EU decision on a target. When the EU itself says that it is going to change its objective, it is interesting to follow the debate where all parties in Norway are in line with the objective set out in the Climate Communication - that is, to burn up the food to 3 million people a year. Then you can talk about second-generation biofuels. It has also been suggested by the Progress Party, but the Government and the climate comrades themselves say that it will probably take ten years to get in place. So Norway is willing to invest so much in biofuels that it will cost the food situation and the prices of food for the poor in the world. I think that's interesting. At least I want to say from here that the Post would like to be very patient about using biofuels. But, of course, they need to find new alternative ways to protect the environment and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e856	I am taking part in this debate to highlight my support for the view that the Post is a very important social actor, ensuring a good public service to citizens and businesses across the country. That's something we shouldn't weaken. I feel pretty sure that without a state ownership, not all the districts today would have had six days' postage, and we wouldn't have had the one-porto, with the justice that this implies. The unit portfolio is the most fair tool we have, by all paying the same postage no matter where in the country they live. At least this principle is not distortive, either for business or for individuals, on the contrary. All the experience shows that when market forces are under control, the districts are becoming the big loser - despite the enormous value creation taking place in the districts across the country. I am sincerely pleased that we have a government and a large number of people who will continue measures that will ensure the districts a very important service offer and thus continue to live and develop businesses. I notice that the Progress Party and the Right also show a great deal of state terror in this context. I don't understand that it's going to be so imperative to take away the important tool that state ownership is for society and the inhabitants, and instead one-sided thinking as much money as possible all the time. But this is really about ideology, and not about what's the best service offer for all the inhabitants of the country. This calls these parties modernisation, as I understand it. In such a political world, only heads are counted and not kilometers. At least this is not for the benefit of the districts or for the possibility of creating almost a level playing field across the country. For me, it seems that the Progress Party and the Right are more concerned with the role of the Post in countries other than the tasks here at home. I hope that in the foreseeable future we will keep the Post as a state owned enterprise and as a powerful social actor for both the city and the countryside. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Posten staff very much, which is constantly doing a large and important job throughout the country. Among these are many who have their daily work in the delivery of mail under all kinds of conditions. This is a tough profession when the roads are slippery, the storm rages and there is snowforest and darkness. At the same time, they are responsible for large values for each of us and for this being delivered correctly. The post has to come forward, is their clear position. They are rightly proud of their profession. The item is one of the largest enterprises in Norway with more than 20 000 employees. These are important jobs, and it is important that we retain that competence and the will of these people. These are workers who are making a very great effort for society to function in all parts of the country. Most of the places Post in Store works well. I have often heard the satisfaction that this scheme has created greater availability in the evenings and Saturdays. In some areas, this has also created a better basis for the local store. I am pleased that this is now going to develop further and become even better for the users. Here, too, it is important that services become equivalent across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e875	It is a major issue we are dealing with today, and many will be affected. It's important to have that dimension with it. The post is an important social actor, and most have a relationship with the Post. It is important to stress that the Post remains a complete public service offer for residents and businesses throughout the country, especially in relation to districts, and that the service should be further developed within certain frameworks. I am pleased that there is a broad majority who believe that even in the future you will have six days of mail delivery. We are pleased that the exclusive rights of individual consignments below 50 grams were not lifted in 2007, thanks to the red-green government. In December 2004, the Government of Bondevik II submitted a proposal to terminate the exclusive right to the Post as of 1 January 2007. Fortunately, it was not implemented. The representative, Jan Sahl, was associated with the government parties on the abolition of the exclusive right. Now he's making himself a spokesperson so you shouldn't drop post offices. I think the representative Jan Sahl should be more precise about what he thinks about the exclusive right. I did not get a proper answer to that in the reply box. The main concern here is the situation of employees, especially in the smallest places, and especially in those over 50 years of age and women. Even if business goes so far across the country, it can be difficult to get jobs for those who come from the smallest places. This country consists of many small municipalities. It is then important to have close dialogue with those involved - the trade unions, management and department of the employees. In particular, the role of NAVs in relation to employees is important. It is important that you do not get into disability, but you have a meaningful job to do. I registered instead that Per Sandberg was concerned about what management thought about liberalisation etc., but I did not hear him mention the role of employees and what they think about that situation. I think it's important that you also have that dimension. Finally, Post in Store seems to work well. But it is important that we and the department closely follow developments, so that we still have a positive development - for everything can be done better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e886	To the Right and the Progress Party: I would like to acknowledge an ideology that says that the most important services in society should be shared by paying taxes and having good public offerings. That's what gives security to people, that's what gives freedom and gives everyone equal opportunity. I also recognize an ideology that means that we should provide the best possible and the best possible postal services across the whole country. If that's why we work for it, there's no problem saying that it's based on an ideological approach -- unlike what we experience from the Right and the Advance Party, which wants tax relief and privatisation. It also shows up in this case: they want the Postroom. There are no good rational reasons for that. The state has acted as a clean and good owner. There is also no good argument for going too far for full liberalisation at this point in time. If it becomes necessary in 2011, we have to get back to it then. It is much better that we spend the time now and use the surplus of one’s right to finance the unprofitable services in the future. A lot of people are busy with the Post company. For all intents and purposes, there is good reason to commend the Post for their good conduct of the business and that it is well run economically. As owners, we're occupied with it. But people around the country don't let themselves be blinded by the fact that there is a large surplus in the Post, if they don't get the necessary services that they expect from a state-owned company. They're busy with the service provision, the quality, the price, the availability, and that the services at all are as they should be. Therefore, it is necessary when we are faced with a whole new transformation, that we have just focused on this. As some have said, Post in Store has worked very well, with longer opening hours and good opportunities for many. But there needs to be an upgrade of both the existing Post in Store and the new Post. The upgrade has to go a little further than selling cultural tickets. We see that there are a lot of places where business depends on the Post, and they're also prepared for mass broadcasts. The banking services are necessary, at least until further notice, for which the Council of State has done well. It's very important that we focus on the quality of the transmission. There have been some negative statements for the Post in that way. I know that the Post itself has a very big focus on this. This with planes, etc. has well been a cause. But it is very important that the Post also has a focus on sending the mail. It's not likely that people around the country will have to wait days for a letter. The last point is for them to add their situation, and many have been involved. It's also important to focus on the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e899	In August 1969, I first trod across the doorstep of the main mail office in Oslo, which was commissioned by the company. My addition ratio is still valid, almost 40 years later. Although I have had leave from the company for the last 15 years, I am very busy with the Post Office's business. Given that in the 1970s and 1980s we were joking about what the Post was going to do in the future, it is unlikely what has happened in the last few years. Many of the things that we who added experienced as fairy tales and fantasies have actually happened. I will admit that I have had conservative restraints for our old management companies, but I will also be the first to admit that I have made many mistakes. I see that the tough competition market is demanding; therefore, it is important that the Post is adaptive and ready to meet this challenge. Today we experience an enterprise that is doing well in the market, a modern and forward-looking enterprise with a flock of added ones that makes a very great effort. In this context, I see that, for periods of time, we have absolutely necessary amputations. The next few years’ plans for the operation also show that additional schedules are needed. I am pleased that the Council of State and the Government Party show a strong commitment to the conduct of additional appointments and conversions. It hasn't always been like this, unfortunately. I have seen many sad and tragic fates in the wake of previous conversions. And it's a shame to record that a lot of them are now found in the social security queue. It is important to establish a good dialogue with their organisations. As I see it, in this case, it has been done in an affordable way -- all the tribute to the Council of State and the rental of the Post of Norway AS. I'm going to promise that we will also follow this process from the Stortinget's side. The Progress Party has used a lot of the debate to hush up the fact that up to 124 post offices can be shut down. Yeah, you world, one should right a lot here in this room. If the Progress Party had achieved its policy, we would see far more closed post offices around the district of Norway. I want to add that the mail services do not disappear, they are only moved to the store. There is a service that has been shown to be very satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e916	The Progress Party can also give recognition to the Post, both to management and to employees, for having had and having a good transition process. It happens in a large state limited liability company. It makes me continue along that line by stressing that it's a good model. Organising state-owned activities - when it comes to state-owned activities - in the form of using state-owned companies - is a form we have actually proposed to go into the road sector. We just got rejected on it by a total accumulation. I refer you to Document No. 8:22 from this year, and we have just proposed it in the railway sector, Document No. 8:27 from this year. I also record that there is no attempt from the red-green government to go back to the form of the floor. So you're satisfied with that form of organization, like a state limited liability company. The post is a company that delivers well and lives well in a competitive world. But we're concerned about it actually isn't good reason why the company needs to be sole owner of the state, but that if you get others on the owner's side, you can step up your efforts to make it more efficient and develop. The post-monopoly disappears from 2010. If we continue the monopoly in Norway, it can effectively stop, shut down and reduce specific parts of Posten's activities in other national markets where the monopoly is removed. It's important to remember. The entry itself answers questions that, by the end of 2011, the turnover in today’s exclusive jurisdiction, monopoly territory, will be down to 10 p.m. of total turnover. I repeat: exclusive rights are monopoly. Monopoly is rarely good for most people. That is one of the reasons why the Progress Party will remove the monopoly. In this case, we record that the red-green government is actually in favour of more continuation and conversion. It's good in a state company. They are committed to improving the efficiency of State competitive activities. That is good, and it is quite in line with what the Progress Party has meant and believes: we must modernise and convert Norway. When we make a point that one at the same time blesses to put down 124 post offices, it is based on the noise that has been around conversion, rationalization and change in the state business Post earlier and right up until the processing of this message. However, it is important that the transition continues as long as the state is owned, and also when other owners gradually enter, and that will be done in the Post Norway AS when the Progress Party comes under control.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e927	Several have been within the Central Party's history in terms of the Post. It has been claimed, for example: from the Christian People's Party, that it has our strong internal features in the government. I don't know what broadcasts the Christian People's Party has that might have observed such strong moves, because I haven't registered them. I admit it took time for the mail message to arrive. The time I spent having dialogues, dialogues with local peoples -- probably a reason that there have been no protests or any uprisings, which have also been mentioned in the debate -- dialogue with local business to know what they need, dialogue with them to join their organizations in order to have management and a view on how these changes should happen, so that this time we do not get a ban on skilled workers from the labour market, but that they can help us find other jobs, either in the Post or in other local businesses. For the Christian People's Party brings together in this matter. They have previously been in the conversion where 580 post offices were converted. 3 000 people, 2 500 jobs, were affected. I didn't register that they put down their feet then-- and then it was really in the district. So for the Christian People's Party it was okay that the post offices at Grong and Myre were closed, but it's wrong that they at Raufoss and at the Blind here in Oslo are being turned into Post in Butikk. It doesn't seem quite logical for the Council of States. We have from the Government's side in the dialogue we've had with both the government fraction and, of course, the government party before I put the matter to the Government for decision, are concerned about how to ensure good postal services throughout the country at the time that comes. That's where I've always had my focus, on those who are users of the services. Whether it's in Finnmark, here in Oslo or in the West, users should experience that they have the mail services approaching. The business community is going to experience that a non-reduced service supply is not being reduced, and most people are going to experience that they have a mail service that comes with newspapers and that they can also get other services done in a good way within the opening hours, which is better than what you experience in the post office. Of course, Post's experience in Storeik has had a lot to say in view of the Central Party's view of these transformations, because we are a party occupied by people, by the content of the services and not by the structures. The structures are available to ensure that the content is good, but the content is important and the services are available. I also record that the Right Party and the Advance Party will abolish the right of one and that the Left Party will be involved in that process. The Christian People's Party will freeze today's structure forever and reduce the return requirement. So here, too, we see that the previous partners are separating layers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e940	This has been a long debate, with clear views as to where the various parties stand. I think it's important to clarify a couple of obvious misunderstandings. I react a little when individual representatives from the government parties come up and are very concerned that opening up free competition means that customers will have a lower offer. In fact, it is this hall and the government that are responsible for ensuring that the concession terms on which all companies are to compete are met with all the criteria they want to apply. From this pulpit, all the parties, as far as I have registered, have said that they want to maintain six days' housekeeping. The big lines are agreed. Of course, there are people who want to open up to free competition, while others don't. But there is also agreement on this with banking services, where the Progress Party and the Right are at least very clear and clear that you want to open up the Post itself to choose whether you want to maintain them or not. The representative Irene Johansen challenged if we were going to spend oil money. Then I can ask you again: are the 200 million that the majority now say they want to use to maintain banking services in Post in Store and in post offices, oil money? It might be interesting to know if it's any other money than the money the Progress Party has, because it almost sounds like it. And then you're kind of intensely concerned that this is an important social actor. Yes, the Post is an important social actor. No one disagrees. No one has suggested that we privatise Posten 100 pst. But there are other important, big companies that deliver well, and that do well, among other things. Telenor, where the state has chosen to sell something down, just to get others in and to keep the company growing and developing. The same applies to StatoilHydro, where the State has sold itself down to get other players in order to help the company continue to develop. That's exactly what the Progress Party and the Right wants now. We want the Post Office to be allowed to develop further. We want the Post to be strongly equipped to meet the large companies that come out of Europe in 2011 or 2013, regardless of what we have to think in this Chamber, because then we have to follow up an EU directive that says clearly that there should be free competition in postal services. No one here has said that you don't think it's very good either, I would like to stress both as a case rapporteur and as a representative of the Progress Party that we are very happy that the employees and the management of the company are taking seriously the process of conversion you're going into, and make sure to do it in a good, neat and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e951	I feel the need to comment on some of the statements that have come about the Christian People's Party's involvement in this debate. Firstly, to the representative Tor-Arne Stroem, who did not fully understand what the Christian People's Party has said and done in connection with this attitude. To put it simply: the Christian People's Party sees it at the moment so that we approach the limit of how few post offices we can have in this country, for the Post Norway AS to be represented and have legitimacy. To the minister I would say: the Christian People's Party knows its past. The Christian People's Party knows that we agreed to drop post offices in the previous round, and we've set a limit of 300-- that's all else mentioned in the message, so there's a Christian People's Party picked up the number. We haven't calculated the seam, that's the number of post offices we have today. We record that the Center Party was a strong critic of the Christian People's Party in the previous round, and we now experience that the Center Party, for the first time, accepts it and then takes the next step that makes us soon no longer have a post office. We have moved to Post in Store, and have privatised it in many ways and left it to private companies to run the Post in Norway. But when the Post Norway AS is about to take over the whole Swedish market and put its marks there, the Christian People's Party will say that here we have to stop and think about. And then I want to say, yes, we're familiar with the fact that we've turned around when it comes to taking away the Posten's exclusive right at this point. We do that based on the signals we received from the Post Norway AS, that they need better time. It is a day when EU and EEA legislation requires us to do so, and we hope that the Post is prepared for it. From the Christian People's Party, what we've done now is an attempt to say: Look, we also want the Post safely located throughout the country. Then, in my opinion, 300 post office is a minimum of what we should have in total of postal self-employment across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e964	I will not withdraw the debate, just briefly in relation to the Central Party being critical of what the Christian People's Party did in the previous round: No, we are not particularly critical of it, because the Central Party and the Christian People's Party were united with the Labour Party, SV and Left in the previous round of restructuring. Int. S. No 248 for 1999-2000 - which I have taken the time to read - we agreed on the restructuring that was at the time considered necessary for the Post to have good development opportunities ahead, and as the best way to ensure good service to people throughout the country. I've read Jorunn Ringstad's articles, and it's striking how similar to the argumentation actually is the post I made here today. It actually goes on the same line, easily ensuring good services to people throughout the country. In conclusion, more people have been involved in advertising. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it right now, because of course we're going to look at and take the notes and what's being said here in the hall, very seriously. But I would like to remind you that taking away the advertisement from the Post will at least mean a loss of revenues of 500-600 million. kr. It will also have an impact on the Post Office's ability to provide good services throughout the country. Reflecting the system we have today, but at the same time taking away the possibility of advertising spots in the newspapers, will only lead to the evening mail being five kilos instead of about two when he comes today with advertising spots. If we're going to go to the stage where we're going to have a different kind of advertising distribution, we're at least going to have to make sure that all the channels are treated the same, and not just so that we take from the Post a source of income while we move the advertising into other channels. This is, of course, something we should have dialogue in the future. I'm also, on behalf of the Government, busy limiting advertising so that people who don't want advertising will not get it, but it has to be done in such a way that they don't just get it back via other channels.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e971	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3132 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e987	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e994	The matter we are dealing with today is part of St.prp. No 45 for 2007-2008, and that's the 2.2 we're dealing with. This is a revised financing and progress plan for the New Kråker Island Connection in Fredrikstad. The case was taken out of the pool and dealt with in particular, because it was claimed in the committee that progress would otherwise be delayed. Now the ministry in its last letter to the committee has replied that this is not the case. However, the case has, in the opinion of the rapporteur, been properly dealt with, albeit promptly. It's as if it's familiar with everything that's done. The Storting has dealt with the matter of New Kråker Island connection in the past, and there was an arrangement with partial toll financing. Unfortunately, due to the fact that the price offers for the two largest works prices were significantly more expensive than the estimate, there was no basis for starting work in the autumn of 2007. Østfold County Council and the municipalities concerned have had a desire to move forward, and have therefore undertaken to cover the excess cost through increased toll financing and through their company Østfold toll company. The project has now received a cost framework of 677 million. kr and a control frame of 615 mill. kr. The net benefits of the project are positive and have actually improved due to higher traffic forecasts. Construction starts are now scheduled for summer or early autumn, and two years are expected to be built. All of this is joyous. Fredrikstad and Håler municipalities use in their decisions the increase in toll percentage concepts such as ‘unlucky’ and ‘unacceptable’ that the State does not increase its contribution accordingly. However, Eastfold County accepts a change in distribution in its decision. The Ministry of Transport informs the Committee in a letter that the municipalities are familiar with the decision of the county council and thus the recommendation of the Ministry of Transport. On the right, we have noticed that a large majority of the committee believes that it is not appropriate to work to change this distribution, as the municipalities are asking for, and that this funding plan is now being taken into account. We have also noticed that the wishes of the municipalities to merge this project with an Eastfold package phase 2 have not been taken into account. The case also requires a revision of the toll agreement, and here it is important to bear in mind that the responsibility for the financing is the company that has it. It is important that the State does not impose restrictions on the freedom and the ability of the company to ensure the most reasonable funding for the best and rapid amortisation of its uses. It may be an expensive pleasure to go in and dictate financing conditions on a short-term basis, as we have seen trends from the Road Directorate lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1012	The size has already joined a scheme with partly toll-financed development of the project. 108 New Kråker Island Connection in Fredrikstad in connection with the treatment of St. Prop. No 41 for 2006-2007 last year. The toll project has been locally initiated and adopted by the local government in Håler and Fredrikstad and by Østfold county councils. However, due to significantly higher offers for the development of the project than provided for in that landfill, the bidding process was stopped and revised cost estimates, progress plan and financing plan have now been developed and amended contract strategy for meeting the cost level of the construction industry. It is these changed assumptions that have now been the subject of new local treatment and are currently to be dealt with in the Storting. The Hook Island Bridge is the only connection between Kråkerøy, Hyler and Fredrikstad. In total, it is approx. 11,000 inhabitants and more than 5,000 recreational properties in the area. Today the traffic stands morning and afternoon when one goes through the city and out to Hookerøy and Hyler. The rush time extends for longer and longer periods of time on the day as traffic increases without the development of a transport system that tackles it. With this expansion, we will have a much better accessibility for car and public transport both to Kråkerøy and Håler and in the center, as the new bridge is located on another side of the city, so that traffic is distributed differently. In addition, the preparedness and security of the population of Kråkerøy and Hyler are ensured. It is therefore urgent to start the project, which was originally planned to start in the summer of 2007 and to open in the summer of 2009 and which has now been one year late. There is local political agreement on the revised arrangements for the development and financing of the project, etc. 108 New Hooker Island Connection in Fredrikstad. Fredrikstad and Håller municipalities clarify in their decisions that the project is desired to be realised as quickly as possible and that the increased project costs are to be covered by increasing toll tariffs. At the same time, it is stated that further work is needed to increase the State and private share of the project. In Østfold, the decision of the county councils in the case is not intended to increase State or private participation. The majority therefore assumes that the current financial plan is stable. It is worth noting that the social benefits of the project have increased despite increased cost estimates, following the establishment of new and up-to-date traffic forecasts. Both the Government and the Committee have identified the need to follow up the matter quickly so that the project can be realised and opened up to traffic as planned in the updated progress plan. According to the project leader, rapid consideration in the Committee was important for progress, and I would therefore commend the Committee's rapporteur for further rapid consideration. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party support the Government's recommendation and the Committee's position on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1027	I can start by including in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party, where proposal No. 2 is an alternative to the conclusion of the adjustment. I remind you that the project was originally mentioned in St.prp. No 41 for 2006-2007 and is important and necessary to improve traffic conditions in Fredrikstad. The aim of a new national road link is to increase the preparedness and security of the population of Kråkerøy and Hyler, to improve the accessibility of Kråkerøy and the centre and to lay the basis for urban development according to the agreed municipal plan. There is no doubt in the Progress Party that this is an important project and that a new national road link should and must be built. However, the Progress Party believes that the task of the State as a supporter and the municipality's work on urban development is not to be paid by the inhabitants through tolls, either new or old Cråkerøjbru on Rv. 108. This project has become more expensive than expected - much more expensive than when Stortinget dealt with the matter in March last year. With an adjusted financial plan, the drivers shall pay toll contributions to the project of 557 million. SEK, interest of 280 million. NOK and collection costs for 14 years at a total cost of 49 million. kr. Overall, this implies a total collection of 886 million. kr through tolls, 44 pst. more than the total cost of building the project. Toll financing for this toll project will be very expensive for the drivers, as toll financing is usually done. Tolls are an expensive method of financing. It's expensive for the drivers to buy the road on pay. The Progress Party agrees to the project, yes to State advance in order to start construction in the autumn of 2008, and yes to state funding through a new national transport plan when the project can open up traffic in the summer of 2010. The party noted that this project has been through a new cost calculation and external quality assurance. Other major national road projects are also undergoing such extra rounds due to cost-precautionary notices. The Progress Party has noted critical comments in several quality assurance reports on different aspects of the State Road Service’s treatment of cost estimates. It may seem helpful and as a discharge if only increased activity and less competition in the construction industry are blamed for the cost. The Progress Party asks the Government to implement measures to improve the quality of the cost calculation of large transport projects. When the majority wants to use toll funding for this project, the Progress Party believes that this violates EU legislation on the use of tolls - a Norwegian legislation is also required to follow through the EEA Agreement. The Progress Party has noted that, in response to questions about this, the Ministry determines that Council Directive 1999/62/EC applies. The Progress Party supports the signals received from the local team that today’s decision will be appealed against to the EEA monitoring body ESA. The Party of Advancement will assist in such an appeal. Norway needs a transport lift — in particular a road lift. Norway needs efficient, safe and environmentally friendly roads, but Norway needs, first and foremost, a modern transport policy. We have to stop considering road construction money as an annual cost and acknowledge that money on the road and transport measures are investments that last for 50 years. Through several different proposals - also mentioned in this setting - the Progress Party is showing new funding tools that can give full speed to investment in roads and railways. The Party of Progress proposes the designation of parts of the yield of the oil fund for investment in transport. The Progress Party proposes the use of low interest rate government loans and long repayment periods. The Progress Party proposes the reorganisation of state agencies, the Road Directorate, the Railway Agency and the Coastal Agency, to state companies that can borrow. In this way, the Progress Party will ensure clear, predictable and long-term funding and ensure the overall development of large-scale projects. More and more people realize this. Among the newest supporters of the Progress Party's instruments for speeding up the development of infrastructure, I have noted Mr. Sigbjørn Johnsen and Matz Sandman, both associated with the Workers' Party. They are right, and the Progress Party is right - road financing and railway financing must be out of the annual government expenditure budget. Time is working on the modern transport policy of the Progress Party. A good opportunity is getting closer and closer: the 2009 big shot. With such a policy, the State will also finance investment in the national road network - as the Progress Party will do in terms of RV. 108 New Hook Island Connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1055	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1058	We are already dealing with the New Kråker Island Connection in Fredrikstad last year. When things come up again, for the same reason that several projects have been postponed, i.e. that the rise in prices has been far higher than predicted. When the municipality of Fredrikstad, the municipality of Håller and the district of Østfold now want to start expanding as quickly as possible, it has been important for both the government and the committee to deal with matters quickly. Had the Progress Party been determined, they had with their goal of tearing down all the trees and refusing new toll projects had been carefully placed into the periphery of the future. Not only is the Progress Party central to tolls, but in a national decision on the weekend the local representatives of the local government and the counties were asked to vote against all toll projects. I've always seen the Progress Party as a centralist party, but they want to override local politicians like that, it's something special. I am glad, for my part, that the plurality is certain to meet the local political demands, so that the New Kråker Island Connection soon becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1069	I look at the Committee's position on the revised financing and progress plan for the development of the New Kråker Island Connection in Fredrikstad that a number in the Committee join the Government's proposal on the subject. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee has chosen to follow up their Government proposal in a fast and positive way, so that the project can be realised and opened up to traffic as planned. However, it seems inconceivable that the case should be re-examined in Stortinget, but it has not been possible for the Government to carry out the developments we experienced in the civil engineering market in 2007. That's why it's important for me to point out that this is not a unique case. Even in some other transport projects, it has been difficult to heighten market developments during this period. I will also see that a corresponding price rise for road installations was also recorded in e.g. Denmark and Finland. It is difficult to find good explanations of the extraordinary price rise experienced by the state road service in most of the 2007 supply competitions. The rise in the price of inputs at plant centre prices has been demonstrated by cost indices from the Statistical Central Bureau. In addition, supply prices showed a marked jump in 2007 beyond what could be explained by the growth in underlying price indices. In the case of the New Hook Island Connection project, the original cost calculation was compiled by the State Road Administration in the period 2005-2006. In the calculation, an expected addition was calculated because of the uncertain link to market developments. Unfortunately, it was not possible at that time to see the exceptional developments in the civil engineering market in 2007. Nor has the Consultant Association, which, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State, carried out an external quality assurance of the project, been able to predict developments. I do not see the position that the Progress Party is criticising the method agency at the Statens vägvesen. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the State Road Administration's method of drawing up a cost estimate, the so-called estimation method, has been assessed by the Ministry of Finance's research programme Concept. The conclusion of this work is that the estimation method is considered satisfactory. It is a challenge in times when the civil engineering market is changing rapidly to anticipate such changes. It's probably not the method tool that's wrong, but a market that the summer of 2007 took a turn that neither method tools, consultants nor anyone else could expect. I am therefore pleased that, despite this increase in costs, we now have a case that Stortinget can approve today, so that this project can be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1086	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1089	As others have said, we are re-treating the Hook Island Connection. It is good that we finally get a solution to this thanks to the initiative of local Eastfold representatives, such as Irene Johansen, and the good work of the case rapporteur. It's a great and important project for the area in question, and I think very many people who both work and live in the Fredrikstad region will be happy that this project comes into place. I actually don't think there's any disagreement that this is going to be built, but it's as usual disagreement about how it's going to be paid. The progress party says they won't be on this if it's going to be financed by tolls, well, notice if there hasn't been a referendum in advance and there are alternative driving routes -- that's the program formula. In this case, it had to be by boat or ferry that the municipality might set up. I'm not sure what the Progress Party is thinking there. It is difficult to understand what the Progress Party believes, and it is a little interesting since this is the Eastfold Progress Party. They had a proposal at the National Meeting of the Advance Party this weekend that all the FrPs should vote against tolls. This was the first Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, Per Sandberg, in the VG on 4 May, that proposal would probably not be adopted. A little later that same day, Sandberg supported the proposal, because he had seen that it was very popular in the hall. This is generally the case with the policies of the Progress Party -- a twisting jacket a little bit after the wind and making sure to be with the tough guys. Saying no is certainly not always the most popular, because today the most popular rapporteur of the Advance Party is under the heading 'Søviknes winder in the FrP decision'. He sends his toll application directly to the department via the local government without any referendum. Oskar Grimstad from More and Romsdal Progress Party also does not believe that he must withdraw the support from E136 and Tresfjordbrua. In 2006, Per Sandberg promoted a proposal to cancel all tolls. It cost 25 billion kroner at the time, but he says - in the same VG article on May 4th - that if the debt is now as large as 25 billion dollars, it can be difficult to implement it in a short time. So it's very hard to figure out what's really going to happen. The progress party tried this weekend to clarify their vision, but they ended up confusing everyone. The only thing that is clear is that the grassroots of Sandberg is not ready for it to be the right to determine the use of money and toll policy in a possible Right-Fremskrit party government. It has also become clear that the Progress Party locally will continue as before and apply for new toll projects, which Sandberg, Hoksrud and Sortevik can sit here and vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1107	Of course, it is never easy to find out the policy of the Progress Party when there are representatives from the Workers' Party who interpret it - this is also the case with regard to tolls. The policy is clear. It is the Stortinget that adopts all toll-funded projects. That's why we're here today. We are ready for this project, as we were the first time we dealt with it - for this is second reading - we do not want the inhabitants of Fredrikstad to pay through tolls of new and old bridges to build a new highway, owned by the state, a rather paying toll to drive urban development in Fredrikstad. The project is necessary, but we want government funding. What made me take the floor is two things-- to the Council of State. One is that we have the project promoted again because of cost gaps. I repeat that we in the Progress Party think it is too simple, too superficial and too easy to dismiss this with activity in the industry as such. And I repeat what I have said from this chair before, that in consultations we have had in the Committee on Budgetary Affairs, there have been clear signals from the construction industry, although unfortunately, there are often shortcomings in the project basis that make the cost picture different from what has been calculated from the State Road Service when the tenders come in. There is also an image confirmed in other projects, at least in a clearer way than in this, from the builders and action holders. I'm going to be careful to refer to something I know well, the city railway in Bergen, where the crack is currently 40 p.m., and where you recognize that it's wrong, missing and failed in the project base that makes this crack so strong. The second thing I want to address in connection with the Council of State's contributions is related to the local initiative. As other speakers have pointed out, there is some disagreement between the stakeholders in this local initiative - and both the Councils and the government parties like to mention toll extortion as a local initiative. But here the municipalities concerned and the county disagree on the state share. And what is it when you put your weight on? What local initiative, to use the speech of the Government and the Council of State, is the emphasis on? At all, there is a comment on the relatively strong points of view that have emerged, including: from the municipality of Fredrikstad, that the State share does not increase when the price of the project increases? Or is it that this is revealing to the fact that toll financing is a pure extortion method, and when the price rises, do those exposed to blackmail have to pay more?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1116	I'm not going to start a new toll debate, but I'm going to repeat what I've said in many ways. There is a significant difference between what is considered local democracy in the Progress Party and in the other parties. We believe that the normal and strongest democracy locally is achieved by referendums. When, according to local government, the government is pressured to build the state's infrastructure, we believe it is a direct attack and the worst attack that can be done on local democracy. The Progress Party wants to preserve the right democracy through referendums. This is a response to the representative Klinge of the Central Party, who repeatedly decides to attack local democracy. We're getting a few more debates over the planning and building law, motor traffic law, etc., and it's going to be fun to participate in these debates. Then I think it is funny that the representative, Wickholm, tries to get involved in processes when dealing with resolutions at the national meeting of the Progress Party, and uses VG as a witness to truth. Yeah, it's almost so ridiculous that I shouldn't have really commented on it. I am fully aware that I have to spend years of debate and adult education with the representative Wickholm to make him understand that. When our local politicians promote resolutions for consideration at our national meetings, the editorial committee has a mandate - and perhaps they have it in the Labour Party too, I know nothing about it - and then it is my job as chairman of the editorial committee not to reject the political content, but to assess whether it is a new policy or not. The resolution that was promoted at our national meeting was just a strengthening of our existing programme, that we demand a referendum because the representative Wickholm and his party, once and for all, go to the frontal attack on local democracy. Then we say that we have some criteria to accept tolls also in relation to referendum. What it boils down to is that all the other parties have no political will to take the economic promise to build infrastructure. We got it. And then the discussion has to be taken there. Is there any willingness to give more money to build the infrastructure of the State, or is it now designed to privatise all possible infrastructure through increased charges?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1125	If it's the representative Sandberg's opinion that VG must not be used as a witness of truth, I would, I would have been him, perhaps, more careful to put up for the whole-page interviews and let myself be pictured while doing polite things on the subject of transport policy. But there are probably more people who need adult education, this time in media management. I don't quite see what the representative Sandberg means when he talks about attacking local democracy. The local democracy in Norway is the local government. Local government is elected by the people, and in Norway we have representative democracy. I don't understand why it is that the Progress Party should be allowed to define what matters are important enough, and what matters are not important enough, to hold a referendum on them. People might have had referendums on school food, if new schools and new hospitals were to be built. But we've arranged it in Norway so that it's left to local government, county councils and big business, at different levels, to control this. The only problem in many local governments is that when people vote in the Progress Party, they don't know what they get. Søviknes, one of the most prominent party politicians and former vice-presidents in the party, is sending in toll applications directly without first having it voted for the referendum, even though it has been said explicitly by the representatives of the Progress Party here on the Stortinget that it should be done, and that is, of course, in the party programme. So it is not only me, but also the Committee on Budgets' own confidence who have problems with how to interpret the Progress Party's programme. It was clearly also the vague attitude of the Progress Party in terms of toll policy, which was the reason why the Sandberg and Østfold Progress Party wanted to clarify this at the national meeting this weekend. For if the policy of the Progress Party had been so clear in this area, what about a strengthening? If it was time for Peter N. Myhre not to apply for Norway's biggest toll, or if it was time-ready for Søviknes, you wouldn't have needed a reinforcement. I suggest that before the representative Sandberg uses time and energy to train representatives in the Workers' Party for what they should say and think, he should rather continue his course activities in the Advance Party and make sure that they understand what is the Policy of the Advance Party, because if they understand it, others may also start to understand it gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1134	This is funny. But let me try to explain it. When we have less faith in the indirect democracy of which the representative of Wickholm is so concerned, it is because the local politicians of Wickholm agree with the Progress Party. If Wickholm conducts a survey with his local politicians in the individual municipalities or in the individual counties, he will be told that they feel State-pressed. They feel a blackmail from Wickholm. For their first wish, it is - quite right - that the state assumes its financial responsibility. That is why it is an attack on democracy. I understand that Wickholm and his colleagues from all the other parties are depriving themselves of responsibility - that is very simple - and owe it to their own local politicians across the whole country. That's what you do, but the Progress Party won't be in it. So to this with VG as the truth witness. There are a lot of people who tell me that I have to try to act a different way in the media. I have coped less poorly and poorly, depending on the situation you have been in. That's true of everyone. What I tried to say to Wickholm was: it is not my job or the editorial committee in the task of the Progress Party to reject political content. My task in the editorial committee is to assess whether it is within the mandate, whether it is a new policy, or a strengthening of policy. So the original proposal for the resolution to which Wickholm refers was not to be rejected in any way, as stated in the VG. The alternative was to send it to the Programme Committee, to send it to Per Sandberg as chairman of the Transport Committee, or to be responsible for the transport sector in the Progress Party, or to adopt it at the national meeting. Then our national meeting would adopt it. It's that simple. The content was not disputed in the Progress Party. The fact that Wickholm is trying to create such a picture is to the extent possible. Then I would like to take a whole round of Os, Austevoll and Oslo. These local politicians from the Progress Party have one task, and it is to carry out a significant reduction in damage to what Wickholm and the other parties have decided to force these communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1145	There's something that says that one should never underestimate a man who overestimates himself. The same thing might apply to the game as well. For this reason, we can all wait in proportion to the tension on the day when the Progress Party may come into government and combine it to tear down all the bombs by getting a big bet on transportation. I'm excited!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1150	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3132 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1166	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1175	It is an overall committee that supports the intentions of this proposal by the Progress Party. The Committee refers to letters from the Ministry of Transport, which show that the 70-year age limit for driving tickets for professional transport was last assessed in 1979. The Committee would point out that factors that may affect the ability of seniors to drive vehicles safely and safely in a professional context, such as: Life standards and health services, have changed a lot since then. The Committee also points out that medical developments have progressed rapidly and that there is reason to believe that we can today, with greater certainty, assess the individual’s ability to drive in a way that ensures road safety. Today’s legislation can lead to a greater choice of labour market exit by professional drivers from 70 years of age, and the current legislation is discriminatory for people from 70 years of age who are fit to drive vehicles. The Committee is therefore committed to facilitating the organisation by the State of the work of those who wish to do so as far as possible and to ensuring that the legislation does not discriminate. This is a matter that concerns very many older people who are engaged in passenger transport and who are approaching that very age limit. The third paragraph of Section 37a of the Occupational Transport Act sets the upper age limit for driving licences to 70 years. The justification for an upper age limit for holding a driving licence is justified on the one hand for general road safety reasons and on the other for the responsibility of a professional driver for his passengers. The Committee agrees that road safety considerations must always weigh heavily on passenger safety, but that very many elderly people who are both healthy and want to continue working beyond the age of 70 do not have the possibility of doing so within the current legislation. This is based on the reasons for the consideration of passengers. However, today's laws and regulations allow persons aged 70 to continue to carry passengers if they choose not to charge for this transport. At the same time, current laws and regulations allow for the charging of passengers at the moment of crossing the borders of an EU country. This is because it relates to EU legislation, which does not have an upper age limit. Many people have problems understanding the logic of today’s legislation, as a driver who has reached the age of 70 and who has a driving licence from some EU country is fully entitled to operate a passenger service for remuneration in Norway. The Committee therefore agrees with the arguments relating to the road safety perspective, that older drivers who have reached the age of 70 are given full opportunity and the right to drive trailers with a weight of up to 56 tonnes, and that they can be paid for this, without breaching the law. The Road Directorate is positive in granting individual exemptions from the upper age limit on the basis of an assessment of his health status. The Committee is also aware that one of the counter-arguments to this change is that the prescriber is responsible for the health check and that it may be difficult for individuals to take from one of their patients the driving licence and driving licence. An overall committee will therefore present the following proposals: ‘The general age limit for driving licences is raised from 70 to 75 years. After the age of 70, an application must be made every year if you still want to keep a driving licence. The application shall be addressed to the police. Each application must be accompanied by a new health certificate in line with the health requirements for driving licences of categories D and DE.’ I believe that the minority will argue for its additional proposals in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1199	The Transport and Communications Committee is now calling on the Government to propose to the Storting that the Act on Professional Transport be amended to increase the age limit for driving tickets from 70 to 75 years. I know that this is received very positively by many older people who are engaged in the exact transportation of passengers, and I am happy that the Council of State and the Government have taken up this matter and have worked with it for a while. The age limit was last assessed in 1979. We believe it is entirely right to increase this limit, because the general health status of the elderly has improved and doctors can now, with greater certainty, assess whether a person is fit to drive a professional vehicle properly. Therefore, road safety considerations and passenger safety continue to be taken into account. The driving licence must be renewed every year and the health certificate attached in line with the health requirements for driving licences of categories D and DE. People don't want to be parked even if they've passed 50 or 60 or 70 years. Former director of cinema Ingeborg Moræus Hanssen writes in his book «Greet, old bitch»: ‘But ‘young’ is a state of mind, not a number. You can be damn old and still have young thoughts and ideas." Many older people are sprawling and possess the skills that society and many workplaces need. They are knowledge-rich labour and a valuable resource. Employers should have the objective of postponing the retirement period or of choosing a part-time and part-time pension scheme, when older people themselves want to work longer, and are healthy enough to do so. Many who retire respond to the fact that they go overnight from being socially useful people to being reduced to useless and passive. For us humans it's important to be seen and appreciated -- we have to feel that it's necessary for us. The proposed change makes the legislation more consistent with EU legislation and avoids the unreasonable difference by allowing a person from an EU country to operate professional transport in Norway after the age of 70, while a Norwegian cannot. With today's laws and regulations, it is also possible for people aged 70 to carry out passenger transport if they choose not to charge for this transport. At the same time, current laws and regulations allow for the payment of passenger charges at the moment when driving across the borders of an EU country - this is because it relates to EU legislation, which does not have an upper age limit. The health situation is much better for 70-year-olds now, and with health certification requirements every year, the Health Directorate has considered it appropriate to open up older bus and taxi drivers. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1224	I thought it was a pleasure to hear the post of the representative Fallet. That is no more than two years ago, the last time we discussed a similar proposal from the Progress Party. At that time, the tone was probably not quite as positive, and you didn't have as supportive an order as the representative Falled now. But that's very good, and we're glad that the Workers' Party and the other government parties are now in favour of the Progress Party's proposal. For the Advancement Party and me it is a very good day today. Since we have been promoting this proposal for the third time since 2004, and several times have called for answers from the Council of State and the Department for the purpose of making a decision, we have finally decided to do something about the discrimination that many professionals today feel and that, whether they are 70 years old or 70 years old, they experience as very difficult. We're very happy about that. Actually, I should give the Council of State a proper flower, but I get to give an oral flower so that the Council of State has now chosen to conclude, in the light of the feedback received from the Ministry of Health, that one wants to go along with the proposal of the Party of Advancement. I think it is important to bring with me and point to some of the things that the representative of the Fall said, that this is a matter that really engages. So far in this period, there have not been many things that I have got as many phones about, as just about this case. Many of these are from people who are resource-intensive and who want to be allowed to continue in their working life. With the challenges we see, perhaps especially in the transport sector, it's almost strange that you have a law that's not in line with reality and what the situation is today. However, despite the adoption of the proposal now under consideration - it is a unanimous committee - there are still some questions about when the decision is to be implemented. Is it going to happen immediately, or is it going to take some time before the decision is put into effect, so that the drivers involved are given the opportunity to continue driving? There are questions I hope the Council of State will answer when she will have her post afterwards. I have to say, however, that I think it was something special that the Council of State had been frightfully busy asking for the committee's consideration. It was actually just before the committee was going to put the matter to the House that the Council of State had a great need to go out in the press and tell them that she would now consider this and have it consulted. I assume, with the decision that will now be available, that there is no longer any point in having a hearing. This is just to implement and in that way make sure that the decision comes to fruition. In response to my question to the Council of State, I assume that once the Storting has taken the decision, you don't need a long time - actually, it should happen almost immediately - to make sure that the people involved are sent their applications to the police authorities, so that they can start their work again as active professional drivers. Many people have great competence and long seagoing times, and not least there is a workforce that businesses are screaming for. I hope that the Council of State will now make sure to follow up on this. With regard to the proposal by the minority, the Progress Party and the Right, it is precisely a matter of proposing amendments to the Professional Transport Act. It is a little strange that the majority proposal available does not have to be amended suddenly, whereas a letter from the Council of State says that we need to change the law and that we do not have the right to do so. What the Advancement Party and the Right wants, is just to make sure that the Law Home and the Law Amendment make this a permanent arrangement. But as I said, we are very pleased that we finally have a new case where we can see that it has been completed, where the Progress Party has received full support from both the Council of State and the Government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1239	Will the representative address the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1242	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1247	Then it's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1250	The case rapporteur has given a thorough review of the case. The Christian People's Party fully adheres to the rapporteur's presentation, and supports the position in the case. The Christian People's Party has security in the transport sector as its first priority. We do not gamble with safety, nor in the case of the provision of passenger services for remuneration - whether in the case of running school children or regular services, the supervisors and passengers shall be sure that the driver is dealing with the task he has been paid to do. Furthermore, it has been raised beyond any doubt that certain skills that are important for a professional are decreasing with increasing age. At the same time, it is also the case that the health of people is getting better in Norway and that life expectancy is rising steadily. It is therefore difficult to have a defined age limit for drivers in passenger transport at all times. After some assessments, and not least after the reversal of the operation, which has taken place after the Minister of Transport has had a dialogue with the Ministry of Health and with the health authorities in this area, the Christian People's Party has been calmed and will vote for us to now extend the age limit from 70 to 75 years, with an individual application with a medical certificate every year after the age of 70. At the same time, a request for a closer follow-up of drivers has been made by professional organisations in consultation within the Committee, with regular health checks throughout the professional career. This supports the Christian People's Party. We ask the Minister to take this up in new discussions with those responsible for health in Norway and for professional drivers. We are also unsure whether or not a change of laws is needed. I hope the Minister will respond to that in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1263	First of all, I would like to thank the case spokesman for a good review of this case, which is that professional drivers should be able to continue working until they are 75 years old, if that is permitted. This is important for drivers who want to stay longer in work and who are healthy and fast. The fact that people want to stay longer in work, however, is entirely in line with their society's wishes and needs. Today, there is a great shortage of bus drivers that can carry passengers to where they are going. The labour market is tight. In this situation, the 70-year limit has caused the bus companies to miss out on valuable labour that would otherwise have benefited them. Increasing the age limit may not solve all the problems related to manning, but it will be able to remedy the situation so that fewer route departures are cancelled. In the social debate on different pension schemes and in the mention of the so-called wearers, it is easy to ignore the fact that too many people are working to make sense of what was going on in their lives, as was the case with Eirin Faldet. It activates, makes sense of mastering, and it gives a richer social life. With an increasing public health situation, and thus more elderly people with good health, not only to spread pensioners, but also to spread workers, it is natural to encourage more people to work longer. That so many professional drivers want to work after the age of 70, at least gives me a better view of getting older. Nevertheless, good health checks are of course essential, because the safety of passengers is essential. The proposal that a group committee is behind is taking good care of this. There will now be an individual assessment of the health status of drivers, and not whether the driver is over or under 70 years of age, which should be taken into account. I'm happy with this solution. I think it's a good solution both for those drivers who want to stay longer in work, for the bus companies that lack drivers, and for the passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1280	In order to be able to operate as a driver in compulsory bus and taxi passenger transport, it is necessary, inter alia, to: driving seat by professional transport law. In order to obtain a running seat, health requirements are considered equivalent to those applicable to driving licences for buses and lorries. The decision as to whether a running seat is required is whether the transport itself is subject to authorisation, i.e.: the transport is carried out in the course of commercial activity. If the transport is considered to be a commercial activity, the driver must have a driving seat even if he/she does not receive remuneration for the work. Professional transport laws today stated that the upper age limit for the running seat should be 70 years. Age limita has been consulted with the health authorities and was last evaluated in 1979. At that time, the upper running seat limit for taxis was reduced from 75 to 70 years, corresponding to that for coach and bus. The reason for having an upper age limit for drivers in authorised passenger transport is a risk assessment where the safety of the users of authorised transport is outweighed by the concern of the individual driver, who, for this reason, must tolerate a certain restriction on personal freedom of action. I think it is right to have such an upper age limit, but I have thought that there might be a reason to look at the limits, and so at the beginning of November 2006 I asked for a new assessment from the Ministry of Health and Health. The Ministry of Health and Health has obtained statements from the Directorate of Social and Health and the Institute of Public Health. These statements are the reason why the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Transport no believe that the limit can be raised from 70 to 75 years, without going along with the security of users of public public transport or other road users. This is about the fact that the health status of this age group has been significantly better since the previous assessment of the age limit. In the context of a current revision of the Professional Transport Act which will be sent to the General Court on the first occasion, this draft amendment to the age limit for the running seat will be included. An entry in the draft is that the driver’s seat must be renewed every year after the age of 70 and a new health certificate must be submitted. The health requirements for running seat will be as today, i.e. a driver must satisfy the requirements for driving rights in categories D and DE, i.e. heavier vehicles. Since the right to drive must also be renewed every year after the age of 70, the same health certificate could be used as a basis for the renewal of driving rights and driving seats. Questions about raising the age limit for the running seat have taken a long time, of which this is a matter where it is important to avoid troubling errors. I promised Stortinget in the spring of 2006 that I would deal with this, and I have done so - first with the request to the Ministry of Health and Health. Then there's been a lot of letters, and there's been a lot of meetings, because this is a case where the statements that you got from the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute have been decisive for one to make such a change on a professional basis. It's not as easy as just making a suggestion, we also have to go in behind the case. It has been necessary to obtain reliable grounds for making the right decision. Otherwise, the case does not concern harmonisation with the EU, as it has been made by some, because the EU does not have a common policy when it comes to age. I have informed in a letter to Stortinget that the necessary clarifications would take place during April. When this clarification was first made, and that was the basis for deciding whether to propose raising the age limit, I also found the basis for communicating it out. I didn't do this to be unfine and disloyal to the committee, or of pure populism, as the case-speaker has been made in the media. This is a matter that I have worked on for a long time to clarify, and when the necessary clarifications are in place, it is natural that the department communicates the matter out. I think the case spokesperson rather than attack me because I have shown some power to act, rather it should be satisfied that there is now a draft amendment of the law that most people will probably be happy with. I also find reason to show that the previous government, with the Minister of Transport from the Left, chose not to obtain new health assessments in order to review the case again, nor did any other action be taken to clarify the case, even if the issue of the age limit for the driving seat was first raised in the autumn of 2004. With regard to the further procedure, I would like to point out that after the cases have been dismissed and the final submission has been submitted to the Stortinget, there may be a basis for discussing with the Directorate of Police a softening of the dispensation practices, which, in line with the legislation, is very strict today. It is then assumed that there seems to be a cross-political agreement on a proposal to raise the current age limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1302	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1305	I can confirm to the Council of State that the Progress Party is pleased that we have taken an important step forward, after several initiatives. We have had several representative proposals on this - we have brought it up again. We're happy that we've come a little bit on our way. But I would specifically like to ask how the Council interprets the decision itself. Following the wording of the decision, an application shall be made to the police and each application shall be accompanied by a new health certificate. If the health certificate is in place according to the requirements that have been imposed, is it such that you are given the opportunity to drive, or is it an additional authority assessment, i.e. a police assessment? I hope the answer will be yes to the first and that it is the health certificate according to the requirements for driving licences in categories D and DE that are essential. I hope the Council of State has this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1312	So if I understand the question correctly, I have the same interpretation. There are some instructions for how to proceed to renew the run title. The underlying health requirements must be as they are today, and the same health certificate, as I said, will be useful for the renewal of both driving rights and driving seats. So to the extent that the health certificate meets the requirements that apply to run, the road to exemption would be simple. And that's the whole point of the proposal. Otherwise, it must be nice for the Progress Party to record that one in the sitting government has a loud government that takes care of things that are being done in this room, and where one can get through, unlike one under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1319	Borghild Tenden - to line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1322	Maybe not a line, but an explanation of a misunderstanding. I interpreted the Council of State so that she said that the rapporteur had attacked her in connection with the fact that she had gone out with this in the media. I didn't do that in any way. So this isn't a line, it's just a correction of what was said from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1327	Does the Council of State wish to respond to that clarification?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1330	It has been perceived by media publishers as such criticism. If he is not justified, it is all the better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1335	I have a question, but first a greeting: Yes, we are satisfied that we are getting movement and that we are getting good results. We sometimes see that in other things as well. At least we have a clear state council, which is clearly taken on the road, and it is the Progress Party satisfied with, unless the solutions are always in line with our wishes. But I ask again about the transition from the existing system to the new system, which we are adopting today, because we have some progress from the affected, i.e. those who are 70 years old, who today have to stop driving and who want to drive. How fast can we get this in place? Or maybe more precisely, what are they going to do, those who are now 70 years old and who are in this profession, and who want to continue working right away? What are they going to do to be able to do that, and what can the Council of State do to ensure that the new system is put in place quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1342	As I said, it is going to discuss changes in the law that will also take into account what the Storting agrees on here today. There are quite strict rules on how to deal with changes in laws. There are listening times, etc., and the deadlines must be kept. But, as I finally said in my article, it may be relevant, after the matter has been questioned, to discuss a softening of the dispensation practices, so that those who have to stop running do not have to wait as long as they can continue in their profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1347	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1352	As one of the proposers, I have to be allowed to say that this is a happy day, as it looks like we are now getting a positive decision that will give more people the opportunity to participate in the world of work for years to come. There are very many people who have made contact, who have been in the situation that they were close by reaching 70 years of age or had reached 70 years of age. Many taxi drivers have made contact, and a lot of people said that they felt this was highly discriminatory, and that it caused very great difficulties for many. The frustration was therefore great, not least because they had a cab license and a major problem in getting drivers to drive the cab on. What I also mentioned in one of my questions to the Council of State is that this could result in the taxiway being closed. Those who were residents in the vicinity of such a taxi had to find out that they had to order taxis further away. In the districts, there may be some long distances, so it would have economic consequences for these inhabitants. I realize that this may be a little problematic for those who have reached the age of 70. I thought it was a positive response from the Council of State, that they would look at this and try to get something done about it, so that those who are right in transition, those who are 70 years old in the near future, have the possibility of getting a system with which they can live on. So it's said by the Council of State that this must have taken some time-- it's not just extending the age limit. I will then refer to the situation in our neighbouring countries and in the EU, which has done this. I assume that they have also had a thorough assessment and handling of this, so I think it must be reasonable for others to be allowed to continue their working day beyond 70 years, when they can refer to a health certificate where they are fit to drive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1366	There is only one case information, so there is no error information left: the EU has no common rules in this area. I do not know what would have been done. It does not exist. Those who want to establish themselves in Norway must comply with Norwegian legislation. Otherwise, they must comply with the regulations of each country from which they come. - This was just a case report.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1373	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3133]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1389	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1398	The issue today is to transfer ferries between national roads, which should therefore be part of a national road network, to the State, and Document No. The 8's are short on this. We in the committee have traveled both in Telemark and Oppland, and the positions there were reasonably clear that this was something to be sought. Now that this proposal for a representative is available, it should also be a simple matter. It's about, as the Right sees it, about simple logic: Riksveger refers to highway connections. It is also important to remember the condition of the national road ferries regulator, where it was in its time that it would cost the same thing to be ferry dependent, and thus transport the car, as to drive the corresponding distance on the road. Now, it may have changed quite significantly over a few years, because it has been chosen to set up tariffs that are several times more than the index would suggest. There's two small ferry connections, this, but definitely not the smallest we have in the nation. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that the traffic base and the relationships to be served are essential for the classification. In this case, the relations are the state's own highways at both ends, and it should be reasonable enough not to leave to others the financial responsibility to connect the state's own roads. But in the administrative reform, this argument basically falls. Here the minority's view is supported -- and I'm referring to: ‘Referencing is classified as the road of which they are part. This means that responsibility for ferry services on regional roads is transferred to the elected regions.’ The fact that not the majority can then support the proposals of the Right and the Minority is simply a little comical. The proposal presented in the case says nothing other than what the Council of State said in its reply. So, referring to the implementation of the administrative reform, when agreed, bears the hallmark that there is no support for the opposition. At least I think the voters in these states are noticing that. Referring to the proceeds and proceeds becomes irrelevant, I think, because the magnitude we are talking about here is relatively modest, and also the distribution that I assume must occur between the levels of government. But it's not yet too late. I would recommend everyone with a little practical and logical sense, including in the government parties, to vote in favour of minority proposals. I think that will please people in Kragerø and on both sides of Randsfjorden. I refer to the proposal to which the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1414	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the suggestion to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1417	The proposal under consideration today concerns, as the case-leader states, the classification criterion for ferries. But there are two concrete ferry connections that have consequences for, the one in Kragerø-skärgarden and the one in Randsfjorden. For many years there has been a great commitment to making Randsfjordferja and the ferry in Kragerø into state road ferries. In the provinces of Uppland and Telemark, and in the municipalities of Gran and Kragerø, they have been incomprehensible to the fact that these inland ferries, which link national roads, could not become national road ferries on the same line with a number of corresponding ferry routes along the coast of Norway. This is why it is a big saying that it will now be agreed that, in the context of the 2010 administrative reform, the county/regions will be given responsibility for these ferry routes in line with the other national roads. In the entire previous period, there were also a lot of advances to get this done. Among other things in the Budget-inner. S. No 13 for 2004-2005, the Labour Party proposed that the ferry link in Kragerø be a national road link. In three out of four budgets in the previous period, the Progress Party was also a support player. So the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left put the power to do something about it, but they went against it. Now put them in the opposition and find it opportunistic to go in for this. For my part, I must say that it is joyous and pleasant. I guess we're not that different either. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV clearly state in the setting that we think it makes sense that a ferry connection linking together national road ferries should be classified as a national road link. At the same time, we refer to letters from the Minister of Transport entitled: ‘I am also not in favour of changing the current national road link criteria before the announced administrative reform in 2010.’ I'm not hiding that I would like to see the current ferry routes become state roadways from 2009. But the situation is now that the Stortinget has already decided to transfer the national road network, including the national roads, to the state, or to the future regions, from 2010. The Ministry then rightly stated that it would lead to an unnecessary resource-demanding bureaucracy first to transfer these ferries to the state in 2009 and then to the state in 2010. The Ministry also maintains the principle that when responsibility is transferred from one level of government to another, money is to follow, and this would result in the corresponding contribution of the county and municipality. And then it would be hard to win for these states and municipalities if the ferries were to become state roads from 2009. This has been noted by the government party, and therefore we have pointed to the administrative reform in 2010 as a time for resolving this. So let's put forward a new proposal today. That's what we've found necessary because it wouldn't have been given that these ferry routes would be regional ferries in line with the national road ferries in connection with the reform, because there are municipal ferries with county subsidies. It would therefore be up to the regions to take these ferries as regional ferries. Therefore, it must be explicitly stated from Stortinget, and I have suggested that these ferry services be treated in the same way as national roadways when they are transferred to the state, including when the economic declared between the state and the state, because it will in any case become a negotiating theme in the context of the reform. I know that the states and the municipalities that it applies are happy that we're now getting to this, that we're getting a big decision where one is now cleaning up. I then take up the proposal submitted on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV, which has been distributed to the representatives today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1435	The representative of Torstein Rudihagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1438	This is a very important matter for the municipalities of Gran and Kragerø. Holidays are very important for the inhabitants and the business community who use the ferries. In my article I want to focus on Kragerøferjene, and other representatives from the Progress Party will take Randsfjordferja into account. I have to say, I wonder at the Council of State's intense commitment to the entry of these two ferry routes into the 2009 national ferry service. It's good with commitment, but threats of taking from the municipalities and county councils framework grants are well at the limit of what a department and a state council should do, at least when, after I have been informed, Telemark County Council and the municipality of Kragerø do not receive specific grants for this operation from the state. Then I think this is so special that I assume that the Council of State explains which grants this is, and to what extent. I think this is also especially considering that the Council of States represents a party that is at least trying to appear to be a party dedicated to ensuring that people will have the opportunity to live throughout the country. But in this case it seems that this does not matter at all. The Council of State insists that this should not be decided until 2010 because a regional reform is to be implemented by the Government itself. I also record that the Workers' Party's representatives from Telemark, who went out on 29 April in TA, said they would vote in favour of the proposal to secure the ferries in Kragerø riksvejse status, have now withdrawn their support. That means that there would be a majority in favour of the proposal in Stortinget. What has caused these to withdraw their support, must be an order from above? I find it difficult to interpret it differently. I also want to refer to parts of a reading post that was in KragerøAvisa on 28 April, from the manager in Kragerø Arbeiderparti. In order for there to be no doubt as to what is in the whole article, the Council of State shall receive a copy of it afterwards: «Kragerø Arbeiderparti decided now at its last annual meeting in January 2008 We want a national road connection for ferga! [[(...):]] The annual meeting of the local party was well followed up by the Telemark Workers' Party, which adopted the same case at its annual meeting now in March 2008. It would therefore be totally unsustainable if our three representatives on the telemarket bench were to vote against such a proposal in Stortinget! Minister of Transport Navarsete promised to return to the question of reclassification into a national road link in the Kragerø archipelago in connection with the announced administrative reform in 2010. The ‘reform’ has now been cancelled so there is nothing to prevent the adoption of the national road network also for the Navarsete and district friendly Centre Party. Kragerø Arbeiderpartit does not find any logical explanation that a ferry service connecting national roads or forming part of national road links does not have national road status.» And on the other hand, ‘We take it for granted that the Centre Party and our three representatives vote in favour so that the ferry service in Kragerø-skjærgården can receive this reclassification. [[...]] if the Workers' Party and, in particular, the Minister for Transport of the Centre Party follow up.’; Furthermore, the end is quoted: «As a local party, we simply cannot believe that our own party or a district friendly party such as the Center Party can oppose a proposal for a national road link for the Kragerø ferry link. We have full confidence that this will not happen." What I just read was an article from a large local team -- it's actually the largest local team in Kragerø -- with full insight into the matter. I therefore believe that the arguments put forward should have been given greater weight both by the representatives of the Red-Green Government and not least by the Council of State. I would like to raise the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1472	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1475	I thought it was very interesting to listen to the Progress Party, Right and others in this case. Now one has found a good health at home, as we call it, where one should take the voters locally with offensive suggestions for ferry operations in the municipalities of Gran and Kragerø. This will happen after you have been able to clean up this matter for many years. Halleraker's been in position. This thing is an old thing. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has been in the position of three budgets, one of which could have cleared up this matter. But then one waits until one is out of power to get others to do the job. That's what seems very strange to me. A result is not busy, but one is busy highlighting the Progress Party locally, marking the Right Locally, and not getting anything done with these ferries when in position. The progress party could have cleaned this up. The question the voters have to ask each time the Progress Party, Right and others are in position, is, Why don't they clean up? Why do they wait until they can smell the red-green government? It's possible it's a trick, but at least it's very little result-oriented, I thought. I hope people in Kragerø and Gran realize how a person actually operates. Now we go into business. Of course, we could have waited, so we didn't take it in connection with Document No of the Progress Party. Eight proposals, which you're already going to get rid of. However, we are now tabling a proposal that we are dealing with, as we have done in the budgetary context before. So let's take note that the Progress Party and the Right are negative to that as well. Then I hope that if the Progress Party ever gets in position, they actually try to get some results and not just wait until they're out of position, as they do now, to complain about those who produce good results for countries and people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1486	I will not spend a long time on this matter. The rapporteur has had a thorough review of the substance of the matter, and the Christian People's Party is fully committed to the presentation and is in favour of proposal No. 1, from the minority. Then I have also listened to the representative from the Workers' Party, who raised the question whether it is certain that these ferry routes will join in a transfer of the national road ferries to the states when the matter of regional reform comes. I consider that if our proposal, on which we are in opposition, falls, we will vote in favour of the proposal tabled by the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV. So I want quite briefly to take up a page on this matter that is highly up-to-date here. That's the big challenge we're facing, that we have a screaming need to renew the national road ferry. It's one of the things that creates the big pressure to transfer county road ferries into state road ferries. We have an ageing ferry that is built for an amount of traffic that belongs to the past. We meet one summer with a lot of tourist traffic all along the coast, while the volume of fish going out of the country has increased sharply. The ferries we have today, can't take away the pressure. The combination of tourist traffic and a strong increase in the quantity of fresh fishery products creates cork. The holiday equipment has been worn down, and you move ferries between different connections to fix some of the problem -- which creates great irritation in connection with where you have a usable ferry, and then you lose it because another connection has a greater need. In such a situation, there is no free vacation that is the medicine. It'll just create further cork. As soon as possible, provision must be made to contract new ferries in order to meet the challenges that our time faces in terms of the use of ferry equipment. The Christian People's Party has a strong focus on the renewal of the ferry fleet and will also have it in the treatment of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1495	This is a happy day, especially for two communities, Kragerø and Gran in Oppland. There's been a lot of commitment to these issues over a long time. Like other parties, the centre party has been working for many years to get Randsfjordferja on the national road network. Of course, it's also working with Kragerø, but I'm going to concentrate on Randsfjordferja, which I know best. Randsfjordferja is a 40-year history as a corporation. Since 1983, Gran Municipality has been a sole shareholder in the company, and it has of course been a heavy one to have the financial responsibility for this ferry. I guess the municipality spends 1.7 million. kr of its own budget, while Uppland County also grants a grant. This is a significant amount of expenditure, which should not be the municipality's own business. So it might be unnecessary to explain why this position is occupied, but we think it's important to get it fixed up, along with everyone else. The point is that the ferry connects the east side and the west side of Randsfjorden, more specifically rv. 34 and Rv. 245. Thus, feria is an important link in the municipality, and it extends across a large geographical area. Without the ferry connection, it would have been a long detour for the population of Bjoneroa to the municipality centre in Gran, yes, it would have been seven miles. It would be a strenuous exercise for commuters, school students and others who take the trip to Gran daily. So Ferja gives both human and environmental benefits. So now comes the administrative reform, and in this respect we support the proposal that the states and regions should take over responsibility for the ferry on Randsfjord. We are pleased that there has become a cross-political commitment to this matter, and we must be allowed to say that it is good that something has finally happened around this. The municipality has, of course, like all other municipalities, enough of other people to spend their money on, if it is not going to use the money for the ferry business as well. If you look at this in a slightly longer perspective, you can imagine that Randsfjordferja can develop into something more than just caring for the inhabitants of Bjoneroa. With better signage and better route times, a catch up may take the transit traffic from Valdres towards Gardermoen and Oslo. Already today there is a lot of tourist traffic to the attractive outdoor area of Fjorda. When the county or regions gradually take over responsibility, I have a hope that in a regional context they will actively use Randsfjordferja in the promotion of Hadeland and Valdres as travel life destinations. But above all, it is gratifying that we can today give a clear signal to the municipality of Gran that the ferry should not be charged to their budget after the administrative reform has been introduced. I also want to add that I can understand the commitment to change the classification rules immediately, but sometimes you just have to figure out that things take time. Transferring responsibility from municipalities and counties to the state for one year to move it back to the state will create a lot of bureaucracy in negotiations and transitional arrangements. That is why I think it is a good proposal that comes from the majority of the Committee, namely that the classification should be done in the context of the administrative reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1520	I think that the question of whether a ferry link should be classified as a national ferry link should be based mainly on a concrete assessment of the traffic base and traffic relations, i.e. the existence of traffic of a regional or more local character. There is no basis for reclassifying the named ferries, Randsfjordferja and the ferries in Kragerø-skärgarden to the national road network according to the criteria we have today. I've noticed that the plurality of the committee, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, think it makes sense that ferry services linking national roads should be classified as a national ferry service. I have also noticed that the majority indicate that changes to the criteria for classifying the national road link will be part of the forthcoming management reform. I therefore believe that the majority will not, however, require changes to the current criteria with effect from 2009, but will see this in conjunction with the review that will come as part of the warning of the management reform, with effect from 2010. It is a goal for me that we should seek to decentralise responsibility for tasks to lower levels of administration if there are no specific reasons why the state can take better care of the tasks. This is why, in the regional reform on the road, we want to transfer about two-thirds of the road network currently under state responsibility to the regional level. The county will also be responsible for operating the ferries connected to the rest of the national road network. Today, the municipalities of Gran and Kragerø are responsible for the administration of the current ferry services, with the support of the respective counties. If the State were to assume responsibility for these links now, it would in practice only mean that the State would take responsibility for the operation for one year before the county assumed responsibility as a result of the management reform. When I have been skeptical about the state taking responsibility for the current ferry services, it also has to do with the fact that the state would have to transfer the resources that the county and the municipalities currently use for this offer. This is exactly the same as when a person transfers responsibility for tasks between different management levels, with which we have a long practice. In other words, it becomes an economic zero-sum game for the counties and municipalities, and a conversion that, in isolation, would not provide anything better in the short term, but only create unnecessary bureaucracy. I am aware of a draft appeal decision from the government fraction that the Stortinget asks the Government, in connection with the management reform, to launch a holistic review of the responsibilities of the ferry companies and to ensure that the counties or regions are given the responsibility for the current ferry routes in Kragerø and Randsfjorden. I agree with the general principle that it is the counties or regions that are initially responsible for local public transport, including ferries outside the national road network. I will work to ensure that this is followed up. A solution in which the state would negotiate with municipalities and states to assume responsibility for the ferries for one year, and then almost immediately start negotiations with the state to transfer the ferries to them, would lead to much unnecessary bureaucracy. On the other hand, the procedure seems to add up, to be rational and wise. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left seem wrong to believe that the governance reform involves the reclassification of the current ferry link to the national road link, and they express the following: ‘These members consider this to be a matter of minor importance, for which the Government will nevertheless be in favour from 2010. These members therefore see no reason to wait for this reclassification in line with what is announced in the administrative reform.» Reclassification to the national road ferry service would mean that one had to change the criteria, that would mean a lot of bureaucracy, and that would mean very little for the municipalities that are currently responsible for these sections. I must also say, with respect to reporting, that it is strange to discuss this matter today, with the seemingly great commitment shown by the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the matter, and also the Progress Party - which had a decisive impact on three out of four budgets in the previous period. One could have done this a long time ago if it was important. This is about making a demonstration proposal to be able to walk around locally and say that one would do something that an absolutely no one would do, but actually voted down when one had the ability to do something. People are not stupid. Neither are they in Kragerø and Gran. They want to see who works for their cause and do something with it, and who just demonstrates.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1547	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1550	First, I would like to say that I hope we get a new government from 2009 -- I hope so. Then at least the Progress Party wants to keep the state roads, and the other one wants to go to the municipalities. It would be very good to get them under the national ferry service. But I still record that the Council of State does not answer my question: How much money is there being drawn into the framework? I note that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport have said that it would be the result if the representatives who have said that they want to vote on something else would choose to do so. Then it is good to know how much money is involved, because in the municipality of Telemark County and the municipality of Kragerø it is about 13.5 million. Total NOK But they don't get this into their framework grant, and then it's good to know how much of what's in the framework of the county council and the municipality of Kragerø, the council of state will intervene if there's a majority for this. In Telemark, there's a aftermath on the county roads of 600-700 million. kr and a aftermath on the national roads of 600-700 mill. kr. It is a major challenge for the county. When the State does not even ensure that its requirements are met, how will the county council be able to give priority to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1559	With regard to the county roads, the state itself is responsible for them, so it cannot take on the state. How one will prioritize locally and in the county, it is up to those who sit there, to decide. When it comes to the ferry routes mentioned above, I think today there is a surplus of about 14 million. kr together--I haven't talked in front of me here--as there'll be a discussion about retracting. We have had many similar things, including: on the railway side, where one has transferred tasks. It is clear that if one from the state could transfer tasks to the state without the money being included, we would get a stream of requests for tasks that a government would want to take over, if one kept the money used by itself. Long-term, long-term, incorporated practice requires money to follow the tasks. Well, it does it both ways. It also does so to the extent that a move from the state to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1568	The representative of Langeland and the Council of State are using energy to tell us what we didn't do in the Bondevik administration. I think it is with respect to announce that this government will soon have to grow up. They've been going on for three years, and they have to stand for what they're doing, and then we're going to have another debate on why not everything was done in the four years we've been sitting. The matter has been described several times today. An additional suggestion has been made here in the Chamber today, and it's quite identical to what the Council of State has written, and it's reproduced in the setting, so it's a little funny that it might be necessary. When the Council of State says that there is no basis for reclassifying these ferries on the basis of current criteria, I ask: What part of the criteria is what the Council of State sees as changing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1575	Based on the criteria that apply today, I have been informed by my office that there is no basis for reclassification, because the criterion is that there should be a highway at both ends. There are probably none of these two. There are county roads and highways in the municipality of Gran, and in Kragerø there are slightly different ferry connections that are connected to the connection that goes out to both islands and between two points. So that's to the extent of a crooked road, but this could probably let itself be solved. If it were such that the state would have this permanent, we would at least have had a real discussion about it. But going into a process of reclassification, with discussion of the economic consequences, etc., and then in a year to go back to the same, seemed to me to have little purpose. We have a lot of tasks to deal with. We need to use the resources for what is not up and down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1580	I noticed that the Council of State ended by saying that people are not stupid, and we can quickly agree on that. I also think people are recording that this is actually draft No. 2 from the Progress Party which results in an improvement in terms of what has been recorded. What is also important is that, in addition to classification, the standard of the ferry equipment is the national road — if it is possible to use such an expression in the poor road country of Norway. It gives me the opportunity to ask about the third link mentioned in the case, namely Hjellestad-Klockarvik, which is actually the only alternative to a crowded bridge, namely Sotrabrua, where a 40-year-old ferry has been operating for 18 years. What measures, as the Council of State sees it, can be taken to ensure that, once the ferries are classified as national road ferries, they are also a decent standard for the ferries?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1587	For national road ferries, there is currently an existing standard that is listed in the current NTP. The forthcoming National Transport Plan also includes a proposal from the State Road Agency for changes and improvements to this standard. The system we have today has been imposed on us through the EEA Agreement, through the outsourcing of all supply, and that is in those processes a set requirement for standard. Too many ferry connections, the defaults for what is set in NTP - probably not that much, but something. For a good part of the ferry connection, it is still below. We work continuously in the Government to improve the standard both on material, on frequency and on capacity, and believe that so far in the period we have already contributed to a great improvement. But we are working all the time in relation to demanding newer equipment when you have a new offer, as one has gone beyond the negotiating principle; otherwise, it would be in the negotiations that one did.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1594	I record that the Council of State and this government are very concerned about everything that happened earlier, but then you should take the whole story with you. The Progress Party and the Workers' Party actually had a majority comment that said they should clean up this, but it's still not cleaned up. And now, for at least three years, the Council of State has been able to clean it up. There's another thing I'm wondering: the council says that whenever there are transfers between different levels, it's like being pulled into the frame. As far as I can recall, when the hospitals were transferred to the state from the county municipalities, some county municipalities were not drawn into their borders. And that's exactly what's the whole point. I have still not got the Council of State to say where in the framework grant you think you have the right to take from the municipality of Kragerø approx. Two million. kr and from the municipality of Telemark approx. 11.5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1601	We have had dialogue with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs on this matter and have been confirmed by them that when they are transferred, it is natural that the funds are included. I have no other comment on that. If it had been a reality that one would transfer, one had to go deeper into that matter. I haven't done that. I look at what I get informed about from my office and the Ministry of Local Affairs and Regional Affairs about what procedures have been established for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1607	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1612	The debate on Randsfjordferja, which I will take for granted, has been going on for a long time. Already in my first period of the Committee on Transport, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre had a majority comment on the national transport plan that these ferries were going into the national road network. Of course, this was not followed up, and it has not been followed up by the State Council in the last three years, even though I assume that the State Council is still a member of the Central Party. That's another thing. Then we have what's almost comical about Randsfjordferja. The road on both sides, rv. 245 and Rv. 35, is the highway. They have highway status. And then you have a little bit that goes down to the holiday rental, which is maybe the top 50 meters, maybe 100 meters on the other side. It's the county road. Then you've done the artwork that the ferry rental has become municipal. Therefore, Gran Municipality has largely had to pay this whole party itself, while the County Municipality has invested a little bit of the money in recent years to keep this ferry going. So how and from what should these means be subtracted? I want to hear from the council where she's going to take that pot from. In the past it was the municipality that had to pay for this, now it is a spice layer. If Randsfjordferja had gone to the West or North Norway, I think the ferry had been stately a long time ago. But unfortunately it doesn't go to the west, it goes to the east, and it goes to the hinterland, to Uppland. In Oppland we have the worst roads in the country. We have the roads with the highest death statistics in Norway. The Labour Inspectorate will now close its doors. 33 because it's about to crash into the Mjösa. We finally got the Gjøvik Railway on offer. It was completely run down by the NSB, so it was rescued at the last moment from closure. It operates well today, although it has the worst track in Norway. And the only ferry we have in Uppland, we also have to pay ourselves. Both the Ministry and the Council of State are neglecting the whole of the East, and especially Oppland. Today we can fix a little thing, and it's Randsfjordferja. If only a few, those who have been very busy and regular and said every year that they will arrange Randsfjordferja, break out and vote for these ferries, it's fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1623	Ferry operating on the Kragerø archipelago is of great importance. It is a myth that the ferries in the Kragerø archipelago only carry tourists. It does, too, but the Kragerø archipelago is an inhabited archipelago. We're proud of the fixed settlement there, which is increasing. The ferries connect the Kragerø-Stabbestad highway, an area that is in strong development. These are the good examples of living in the districts and in the archipelago. Of course, good communication is crucial. I am very pleased and happy that this matter has taken a new and positive turn and find its solution. It has a long history and has been debated several times in Stortinget. The proposal now presented by the government parties states that the ferry sections in Kragerø and Randsfjorden in Gran will be transferred to the counties/regions in the context of the administrative reform in 2010. Even if someone were to vote against their own government, on which some representatives have been involved, the proposals of the bourgeois parties will not be guaranteed a majority in the Grand Duchy. Without a decision, the ferry business would not be resolved and would be coming up with new rounds in Stortinget. Then the municipalities in Kragerø and Gran would still be spending in the foreseeable future, and that is a heavy burden on local budgets. The art of politics is among other things: to obtain a majority for a proposal. We wanted the state to take over the operation of these ferries. Anyway, with alternating governments, we haven't gotten it done. Now the time has come for us. The Riksweg will be transferred to the counties in 2010. I can reassure the representative Bård Hoksrud that I have quite good references to refer to in Kragerø when I now claim that the proposal that the government parties are in favour of is well anchored in the local environment. In fact, I've obtained advice from the people involved. I have been in contact with the fjord boat company's director. I have been in contact with the board chairman of the fjord boat company, who also represents the Christian People's Party, and they welcome this proposal. I have also been in contact with the Central Party Ole Gundersen, who is part of the political leadership of the municipality of Kragerø, and who lives in the Kragerø archipelago. He has clearly stated that this decision is the only one true. To the representative, Bård Hoksrud, I would like to say that this has of course been cleared with its own party traps, also the head of the Kragerø Arbeiderparti. We welcome this proposal and the decision. It should be a happy day for the ferries in Kragerø and Randsfjorden in Gran, and this has been a good common cause for the two states.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1642	I repeat that the Progress Party is pleased that another proposal for a representative brings important areas of action in the future. Even though the Government and the majority strike a little further in this matter, we will come a little further thanks to an initiative from the Progress Party. I note that the representative of Langeland hassles a little about dealing with local issues, and that he believes it is almost used as a raw proposal back home. Let me remind you that the ferries in Kragerø think I've actually travelled on one of their comiterees. Let me remind you that the ferry in Gran we have at least seen and have been commented on as a joint committee was also on tour in that municipality. There have also been other recordings relating to the third ferry mentioned in the case from the Progress Party, namely the one running Hjellestad-Klockarvik, which is in my own state. There is reason to repeat that ferry is 40 years old. It has been in circulation for almost 20 years and is totally inappropriate for traffic. Not least in today’s situation, where the option is to be on an overcrowded Sotrabru with 25 000 cars in annual traffic, this is a small but important option, and there is ongoing local initiative to get a high-speed ferry with more capacity. This is linked to the second proposal put forward by the Progress Party, which unfortunately we are only on the preliminary stage, to ensure the necessary standard, which is important, and the classification must also lead to satisfactory standards through appropriations. Whether you're dealing with tenders or negotiating, the government's allocations to national highways actually help to dimension the offer. It is therefore important that the Government also participate in putting that dimensioning through the annual budgets. I record that in this case, the Government uses one of its two main tools in the field of transport policy. One is as well-known toll when you don't pay yourself. The second main tool is suspension, and this is what you're using. Instead of cutting through and making a decision immediately, the regional reform is pushed ahead. The party of progress believes that this is completely unnecessary. We should be able to adopt classification today, thereby ensuring that the 2009 budget provides for the dimensioning of national roads, which means that these links too can achieve a better standard than they have today. You can do that if you want, but the government parties won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1653	The representative of Thore A. Nistad describes the challenges of travel in Oppland, and that's right what he says. Uppland and Hedmark have a total of approx. 10 pst. of the national road network otherwise. We're going to add up to approx. 4 pst. of the other national roads. Unfortunately, there were 29 tragic deaths in Uppland in the last year. This tragically means that Uppland is at the top of Norway's statistics. There are certainly major challenges on the road network. So the representative says Nistad at the same time that now we have the opportunity to sort things out when it comes to Randsfjordferja. That's exactly what we're doing with our proposal. We'll sort out the only rational, sensible way. I tried in my article to explain why we have to do it this way. Both the Right and the Progress Party have voted against the regional reform. But we have to keep to the fact that a majority in Stortinget in connection with the first round of regional reform has already agreed that the national road network will otherwise be transferred to the next regions/states. Then, as the Council of State says, it is very bureaucratic to use so many resources to first transfer the national road ferries to the state in 2009, and then to transfer them to the regions the following year. The other thing is that cork Gran or Kragerø, cork Uppland or Telemark, wanted something. For all the time principle is as they are, as the Council of State has done well, and as we stick to -- we can discuss whether the principle is right -- that's how they would be practiced, that one would get a subtraction from the transfers. Then they wouldn't have anything left for it. But now we can solve this in the context of the regional reform, because then one must negotiate between the state and the future regions/regions for compensation for taking over the national road network otherwise, including the national roads. I said in my post that it suggested that these two connections become elements of those negotiations. So if Nistad and his party, and so on Right, want to do something about it now, to get a solution, they must vote in favour of our proposal, at least subsidiaryly - if they want to do anything more than pursue pure demonstration policies in order to appear in their own states.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1662	I think what Torstein Rudihagen says here is worth listening to. In addition, I think it is a wise and good proposal that has come from Rudihagen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. Then I must be allowed to tell the representative of the Progress Party, Thore Nistad, that I know that the Council of State is as concerned with Uppland and Hedmark as with the Northland, Troms and the West. I think it's important to build this country bit by bit, and it really has this government done. So I have to remind you of a little bit of the story. It usually drowns a little sometimes. To the representative Jan Sahl, who is talking about the renewal of the ferry fleet: we must agree that there is a job that must be done also in relation to it. Then Jan Sahl talks about the focus that the Christian People's Party should have on NTP in connection with the ferry problem and other things. I would like to remind you -- because I remember at least a little bit -- that in the case of the previous national transport plan, the country of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party -- also the Progress Party finally - of 22 billion kroner over a ten-year period, i.e. 2.2 billion kroner per year. years. Then Jan Sahl called this air billions. We got very good use for those air billions. We still have huge challenges in the whole transport sector, but at least we got those air billions in use. So it's like this ferry problem thing didn't come yesterday. I did not realize yesterday that there were poor roads for a good deal of space. Yesterday we did not realize that we have problems with the railways as well. And when we get to the next case, case no. 5, representatives from Borghild Tenden, it's about getting an action plan for a more modern and well-kept railway – it didn't come yesterday or in the last three years either. This has happened over time. The railway has been confused, the roads have been confused, and a whole lot of things, for the former government parties, plus the Progress Party, were more concerned with giving tax relief than dealing with the challenges you had. And that gap I think actually you want to keep going if you come to the government again. At least I think it's right to remember these things, because if you don't, it goes in the forgetbook. It could also be a huge belly pad for some of these parts if things go so wrong that they get to the government at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1675	I have to take the floor because the representative Sortevik thinks that I have to tell you that someone is dealing with local issues. It is deleted incorrectly. What I'm taking up is what happens when you're in position and when you're in opposition. I deal with a lot of local issues when I'm in position, to get results. Still away, I can say that this got us into government - when it comes to local matters and also national. What I'm talking about is the way the Progress Party fools people the most. When they're in position, they don't get to do what they're supposed to do. The representative Nistad complains about the quality of the road in the county. One has then negotiated three state budgets, and the only step forward party was able to obtain one million on the state budget. DKK for road maintenance of three years, while this government was 500 million. One year’s worth of kr. One actually complains to himself that one is so poor in position that one cannot get results. The same applies to the holiday home I'm dealing with now. Yes, one had a plural comment in the transport committee during the Bondevik administration, and that was fine. Why did one not ensure that the plural commentary was realized when one had budgetary cooperation with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left? That's how one creates results. There is not enough comment to make, one must actually do what is in the comment. We're in position, occupied by. That's when I'm talking a little bit about the way the Progress Party is now greeting home, where one finds a case of some ferries that one could have cleaned up a long time ago, but now choose to attack the sitting government to do nothing. But then we do something about that, too, and that's what has to be the point when a person is involved in politics, not just that one can sue and complain and sigh and mass on behalf of people most when one is out of government offices, but that one, when negotiating a budget, can tell their voters that I got this when I negotiated: the Kragerøfers came into place, and Randsfjordferja came into place. It wasn't just one comment, but we did something about it. There are policies for results more than high gallups, but actual results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1682	First, I have a few questions: are the Kragerøferjen and Randsfjordferja just going to be transferred to the new so-called regions? Or are all the other ferries, and especially those in Sogn and Fjordane maybe, also going to the new regional dishes? And then we're dealing with moves in the transfers. What money is Gran Municipality getting today to run Randsfjordferja? What money does Uppland County get? There has been a lot of back and forth about who has supported the ferry, so it would have been okay to get a clarification on it. Then I want to go back to the representative Langeland. He has obviously not been on trips that the Committee has had around in the whole country. The only three years we got a way in Uppland were actually when we sat down and were able to force the Bondevik government a little bit. Then we built a part, and then we got a part done. But it'll take 40 years just to sort out what's in Oppland. For 40 years, all maintenance and operations have been neglected. And the only route we had to offer at the time I was on the Transport Committee is the Gjøvik Railway. It was saved. Now what happened to the other sections? Not one comes up for tender. Now it's a full stop. Only one hears the word ‘privatise’, only one hears the word ‘offer’, so the red-green government gets freezes down its back. But the Gjøvik track - on offer - has actually become incredibly good. And the representative of Langeland, who is a railway enthusiast, should really take a trip up there, because then it could be that we got a little better track, last week the track broke out, and then we had to drive a bus on the route for a whole week. But the wagon equipment has become very good. We've also got the office department. And when the Gjøvik Railway was offered, there were actually several million dollars cheaper, and in addition it was 40 pst. multiple departures. And if there's no savings, you almost have to be an SV to do those calculations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1691	I would like to remind this assembly - when it almost seems that the problem will be solved only if the decision that the majority wants to adopt is taken - that the financing of the road to Kragerø would be excluded from the framework of transport. That did not happen, despite the fact that there was a decision on it. I think it was interesting to hear Gunn Olsen's contribution now--it was probably almost a canoeing session in the form of trying to turn away from the situation in which the Telemark Workers' Party has put itself. The representative Olsen says that art is getting a majority in Stortinget. Yes, the art is getting a majority in Stortinget. If the three representatives who went out on 29 April said they would vote in favour of the proposal of the minority in the committee, actually do so in this Chamber today, there will be a majority in favour of this proposal. The number of votes is 87-82. With three additional votes for the minority proposal, the number of votes will be 85-84. As I said, this proposal becomes in a way for which the comments of the Labour Party and the Progress Party have been given a majority. Some have to follow up on this to be implemented. If the Kragerøfers had got national roadside status, this would have been done. Then the Kragerøferne had entered the highway link, and they had solved this. Whether it becomes a new reform or not, the ferries will be part of the national road network or part of the county road network. We think the best thing would be to make sure that the Kragerøfers now become part of the highway link. Gunn Olsen has spoken to some in Kragerø Fjordbootselskap. I've been talking to people working in the administration of Kragerø Municipality, I've been talking to politicians in Kragerø Municipality, I've been talking to people who use the ferries in Kragerø Municipality -- and they think the only and most correct thing is to vote for the minority's proposal in the Chamber today, so that the Kragerøferen and Randsfjordferja are reclassified to be part of the National Roadferry Association. It's not like someone's been talking to the only professionals. I heard from Gunn Olsen's post that she had spoken to the professionals. It is professionals who are employed in the municipality of Kragerø as well. They are very concerned that the ferries will receive the reclassification for which Kragerø has fought for many years, and which unfortunately have not been followed up in this Chamber, or have been followed up by various governments over time. The Rudihagen refers to features in the frame. For me, there is a pressure, an undue extortion of two municipalities and two counties, on the part of the departments - nothing else. We know that there are cases in other places where you haven't been involved in the kind of extortion and the kind of threat. And when the Council of State can't even say what sums this is about, I think it's something special to bring that kind of threat to the municipalities. I would also like to say to the Council of State that her own party leader in Telemark on the radio last week said that he hoped that the Government's proposal would be downgraded and that it would be reclassified to highway status. So it's the district leader of the centre party in Telemark who believes this. To Langeland: There is nothing to suggest that the voters feel that they have been tricked by the Progress Party. But I think, when you look at the last gallup, there are at least a lot of voters who feel that they've been tricked by the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1708	It's a saying that if you have bad arguments, talk higher! I guess that's what we were witnessing now-- in the post for the last speaker. We have to take with us that the ferries that we're talking about now have a special history. It has been built a road that was actually supposed to terminate these ferry connections. It's for Kragerø, where a road was built. It applies to the area around Randsfjord, where it was also built road. These roads were built because the ferries were no longer supposed to go. But then one still has a desired location for the ferries to go. Then it becomes quite strange to compare this with ferry routes along the fjords, where there is no way - where the road actually ends where the ferries go. This is probably the reason why the Storting and changing governments - in spite of comments in Stortinget - have not chosen to convert these connections into a state-wide holiday network. They set a different category to the one where ferries take over - and where the road actually ends. It must be a willingness to separate. This is an important supply for the local population in question. Solutions must be found to enable this to be covered in the same way as other collective services and other national roads, which are to be transferred to the state in a year's time. The sums that I wasn't quite clear about here instead, I have. I know that the county contribution to the Kragerøferjene was 11.5 million. kr, that it collected the operating support of Randsfjordferja from the municipality of Grane and Oppland County was about 1.65 million. kr in 2007 and that the county contribution was NOK 850 000. I had to check the papers to make sure that I didn't say anything wrong-- I thought it would be foolish to refer to wrong sums from the Stortings pulpit. The principle of transfer of funds and tasks is a well-defined principle, which, of course, the Ministry of Finance is keen to follow up. This is because with the tasks you have chosen to continue, a priority has also been given to these tasks within the state framework. It is not that there are ear-marked media - corks for school, for municipal roads, or, like here, for municipal ferries. It's inside the frame. If a move of the to-dos is made, another move the money. This has happened under changing governments. There's no way this government has put in place -- it's simply an organization where the money follows the tasks. That's the way it has to be. If not, we will have an endless black player game to move the tasks, but we will be allowed to keep the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1723	Hallgeir H. Langeland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1727	My main point was that I feel it as if the Progress Party is at home, because the Gallup is more important than the concrete political results - more important than what one achieves in politics. I think it's a little strange that a driving force with politics to get high galluptials, not to get concrete political results in terms of doing something about Randsfjordferja and the Kragerøferne. That was my main score. It is the same when it relates to my principal score in relation to the representative Nistad. So, if it takes 40 years to fix up in Uppland, why didn't one spend the three years when one was in charge of the budget, to start that repair job? Instead, one waits for the red-greens to come to government, so that one can think of them as something that one did not do. That's what I'm after. So the main point is: do something when you can, instead of trying to pick up those who actually increase the railway budget and the road budget, as this government has done. That's my advice to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1736	This matter and the debate testify that we are all committed to solving a challenge. Many have been concerned about it in their articles as well. But it's going to be a bit of a strange debate when the representative, Langeland, spends the entire speaking time not talking about a ferry - because that's what this is all about - but uses all of his articles on a story that is, first of all, completely wrong. But it puts it in perspective, and as the Council of State said, in the absence of arguments, you raise your voice or just talk noise. And a lot of people just talk because they don't have good arguments. Of course, at some point in the past, the Progress Party could have suggested including these national road ferries. The SV could have done that. SV had exactly the same position as the Progress Party in the previous period. But SV chose to enter into settlements in completely different areas, which were more important for SV. The Progress Party did the same in the previous period. Now, the only possibility you have in the opposition is to make proposals in the hope that you get sensible results, if any. Today, it is two proposals that will have a sensible result by being promoted as a representative proposal. That's one way to do it, and it takes advantage of the Progress Party because we're in opposition. We've never been in government, we've never been attached to any government, but we've made a deal with a government - in the same way that SV has done in many ways. Of course, I could have taken the same approach as the representative of Langeland took: why is SV not now able to notify us of NATO, and why is the Central Party not able to cancel the EEA Agreement - because they are in government? It's going to be a pointless debate. Since you are in government, you have, of course, had more opportunities and opportunities to change the policies you agree on over the next three years that SV, the Central Party and the Labour Party have been in government. in the case of these ferries. It makes no sense when the representative Rudihagen, in addition to an article, says that now the government has one thing, and then everyone else is going to shut up. That's not how democracy works. That's why we have an opposition, and that's why we have to act this way. So this is not populism at all. As other representatives have been involved, the Committee has been on its way. I, as chairman of the committee, take the committee on a journey to get a recording. On these ferry routes, we've been recorded, and then at least our representatives have taken responsibility and made suggestions based on the input we've received from the different places we've visited. That's what I call accountability. That's what I call caring for local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1754	The representative Torstein Rudihagen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1757	I'll be brief. When the representative Per Sandberg says that I have said in an article that the government has now decided that this should be the case, and then the others will shut up, it is a direct mistake. I've never said that. The representative Sandberg will see what I have said in the minutes. I haven't been around to say that. If he's aiming for me to point out the principle that when responsibility is transferred from one level of government to another, money is to follow, I've never defended it. There's reasonable reason to ask questions about whether that principle is right, when I refer to a principle that we have taken note of, that underlies this. So I also notice that the representative Sandberg said that there would be a reasonable result here. That means that the Progress Party has come to its senses and will vote in favour of our proposal, because that is what will result today. Then I'll repeat that call, because it'll be a strength for the decision that there's a mass accumulation behind it, and that shows that now a mass accumulation will clean up this matter in connection with the management reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1766	Today we have had many debates. The representatives of the Workers' Party have taken great liberties, and that is what I am in favour of. It concerns the freedom to interpret the Progress Party in all possible directions - the National Assembly of the Advance Party, the proceedings and resolutions of the Progress Party, the policies of the Progress Party, etc. But I'm sorry if I misinterpreted the representative Rudihagen. Of course, I'm going to read the record, but I heard clearly that the representative Rudihagen stated that the opposition - the party of progress and the right - should perhaps understand that there was already a majority in the hall, consisting of the red-greens, and therefore act in a different way. I interpret it as Rudihagen said that when it was already a majority for - you don't know what the majority would think about new regions or states, it's a little uncertain yet - and when the opposition knew that there was a majority in the room for that kind of reform or not, you should also deal with it. My and the task of the Progress Party - I will not speak on behalf of the Right - is to promote my own policy as much as possible. Therefore, when we have confidence that a two-tier system is much better, we must make proposals according to our concept and allocation of responsibility for infrastructure in line with that. We also did so in the previous period when we were criticized for making a settlement. Our party and our party program are based on two levels. Then our proposals must also express that fact. And they do that in this context. Then it's quite natural and most sensible for us to put these ferries under the highways. And the highways are the responsibility of the State for the Progress Party. It's a little far ahead of time, but now when you're going to shift all the responsibility to the states or regions, as I heard the representative Rudihagen said - you haven't decided yet whether it's states or regions - it's interesting later to take the debate on whether it's going to follow with money. I doubt it. But of course I hope so. In the draft national transport plan - when a new national transport plan is presented - we will see whether public sector funding and the framework of the county municipalities/regions are being raised in line with the follow-up to the new roads that the county/regions will receive in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1775	The president recorded that the representative Rudihagen wanted the floor. The representative has had three articles on the same subject, and when one has not provided an explanation of this matter, the president suggests that it be done outside the Chamber. The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over. [[See page 3133]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1793	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1802	A well-functioning network in the Oslo area is of great importance both for individual travellers, for freight transport between parts of the country and for business in general. As pointed out in this representative’s proposal from the representative Borghild Tenden, there have recently been a number of train traffic settings in the Oslo area due to faults at the railway station’s site. Several incidents have revealed vulnerability to the network by the fact that minor incidents have paralysed much of the traffic. In the document we have before us, the proposer suggests that ‘The government is asking the Government to promote an action plan in the form of a big message with the aim of reducing vulnerability and improving the quality of the Oslo network’. The Committee has received a number of input into the matter, including: during the open hearing. The entire Committee agrees on the objective: we need to reduce vulnerability and improve the quality of the Oslo network. A good and reliable rail service, with confidence among travellers, is essential for getting more traffic from road to rail. It is therefore important that the Oslo network has a standard that ensures reliable, safe and efficient traffic management and that its capacity is sufficient. The Minister of Transport shall inform the Committee in a letter that the Department has undertaken work on examining the infrastructure. The aim is to identify and propose measures that can be implemented already in 2008 - in addition to measures already planned by the Railway Agency. The Group has also been entrusted with identifying and proposing actions to provide the main work for more extensive work for start-up in 2009. In the light of the work already under way, the majority consider that there is no need to draw up an action plan in the form of a separate call for proposals on the Oslo network, and therefore proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. I believe that the parties themselves are more profound in their views on the matter, but it is important to stress that the Committee is now in a hurry to implement the improvement and that action needs to be taken as quickly as possible. There are therefore expectations of concrete immediate measures for a more modern and well-kept railway in the Oslo area. It is also expected that plans and measures beyond those undertaken in 2008 will be presented in the National Transport Plan 2010-2019. For the Christian People's Party, we believe that a vulnerability analysis for the Oslo railway sector is necessary, and that conclusions and remedial actions, in addition to immediate action, are reflected in a separate action plan incorporated into the national transport plan. Maintenance is considered to be part of the running tasks of the Railway Agency. Operation and maintenance have been a priority area of government budgets for several years, but despite this, there are constant delays. Therefore, there is a need to look at how the maintenance needs are identified and how the maintenance is monitored. The right, Christian People's Party and the left are promoting proposals in line with this. During the open consultation within the Committee, the Railway Agency informed that the costs of immediate action were estimated at approximately 100 million. kr. The Christian People's Party assumes that these funds will be put into place in the revised national budget for 2008 and that the appropriations will not be at the expense of maintenance on the other network. Finally, I address the minority proposal to which the Christian People's Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1825	The representative Jan Sahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1828	First, I would like to commend the case rapporteur for a good and comprehensive preparation of the matter. The appropriations for operation, maintenance and investment in the railway infrastructure have shown an increasing curve under the government of Stoltenberg. Major infrastructure developments are under way, inter alia: in the west corridor between Oslo and Asker. Maintenance efforts have increased throughout the country. Despite increased appropriations, several years of down-priority of maintenance of the network have resulted in an increasing number of long-term train running stops, especially in the Oslo area. These service disruptions affect the train running in large parts of the country. We are many who are hit every time trains in the eastern region stay standing. It hits all the thousands who daily commute to and from work in Oslo, and those who are going to travel by train over longer distances out and into Oslo. For passengers it is completely incomprehensible that signalling errors and short circuitages in cables, etc. day after day, all train traffic in the East can be paralysed, as it does today, without it being sorted out. We can't have it like that! That's the cross-political agreement. We in the Workers' Party have therefore asked questions about the NSB and the Railway Agency have sufficient preparedness and risk analysis to prevent such events, and what these stages do in the short and long term to prevent the corresponding chaos in train traffic in the future. A good and predictable train service that is trusted by passengers is crucial for rail competitiveness in relation to other modes of transport, and especially in the Oslo area with so many commuters out and into Oslo. If all of these had to choose a car instead, it would mean 100,000 more cars on the roads every day. I am therefore pleased that the Government quickly addressed these challenges and set up a project group consisting of the parties involved, which has identified the situation and what action needs to be taken in the short and long term. The railway works are in progress with the improvements to ensure greater operational stability as early as 2008 and have re-prioritised the means to achieve this. This shows that the Council of State has taken the matter very seriously and will follow it up in the future, so that we can avoid such events in the future. The issue we are dealing with today is a proposal from the Left on a separate action plan for the railways in the Oslo area, in order to address this situation. It's something late, ask me, after having had all the opportunities to clean up and prioritize a good maintenance of the railway in the previous period, so that we could have avoided this today. With the Resolution of the Council of State on the follow-up of the Railway Works and the Railway Companies, there is agreement among all the parties - including the Left - that a separate action plan for the Oslo area is unnecessary. Since the Left also agrees with this, you might end up having the Left more closely followed up on the Government's follow-up, we might not have had to spend time on this matter today. All the bodies that were at the hearing in the case also indicated that a separate action plan was unnecessary, trusting in the government's treatment and follow-up of the case, and that it would be unfortunate to take the Oslo area out of the national transport plan. At the same time, there was broad consensus among participants that action needs to be taken in the Oslo area to address the problems. The Oslo area is naved on the railway network, and problems here are propagating across the country, with great delays as a result. The consultation participants also underlined the need for further investments in the rail network, as well as a greater focus on public transport at national transport level – possibly in a separate public transport plan. The hearing informed the Railway Agency that they had ordered a review of the maintenance needs on the network in 2006. This review had shown a larger maintenance kit run than previously foreseen. The appropriations for maintenance have had a falling curve over several years, also during the Bondevik II administration. With background in, inter alia: the recordings of the Railway Agency have, as I said, increased the appropriations for maintenance beyond what was foreseen in the current transport plan and also increased the appropriations for investments in order to comply with the framework of the NTP Decision. The government has started the cleanup work in the Oslo Tunnel. Further actions will be assessed in the context of the revised national budget for 2008 and the State budget for 2009. Finally, the Labour Party supports the vote on the inclusion of the proposal in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1851	Recently we have experienced constant delays on the railway network in the Oslo region. Unfortunately, it is often found that the delays are due to the fact that much of the equipment is old and/or badly needed maintenance. I would first like to boast of the initiative of the proposer. However, it seems strange that the proposer will not support the proposal of the Progress Party to improve the quality of the Oslo network by providing funds to respond to these immediate needs that have arisen, which have been clearly identified in the hearing. At the committee hearing, it was found that the Railway Agency has an immediate need of 100 million. kr, in addition to pointing out that there were also several other measures to be taken. At the hearing it was also found that the Railway Agency had already commissioned a report on the railways in the Oslo area in 2006. The report revealed significant delays in infrastructure and the need for major upgrades. This was information which should also have been communicated to the Ministry of Transport in the same year. We therefore believe that this is now an unsustainable situation, and the Progress Party takes it most seriously. We will therefore propose that it be set at 150 million immediately. to cover the additional costs pointed out by the Railway Agency for the rapid upgrading of the railway network in the Oslo area. The Oslo railway network is a very important transport network used by many, both home and work, and to a large extent also for freight. For all of these, it is also essential that the train departs when it is intended. If major delays are constantly experienced as a result of rail network failures, people will lose confidence and move on to other means of transport - with the challenges it will have for road and public transport. At a long stop, you experience total chaos for the passengers. The delays also entail large additional costs for the NSB, while the reputation and trust in the company are lost to customers. If this is allowed to continue as today, many users will also switch to other means of transport, and the positive development that the NSB has had in recent years with an ever-increasing number of passengers will reverse. Trains are constantly standing due to lack of maintenance, and may also result in people losing confidence in railway safety. We are also well aware that there is a major discussion between the Railway Agency and the Railway Authority about the safety of the railway network, where the Railway Agency is now actually going to the drastic step of considering closing the whole network in Norway from June, because the Railway Agency does not have procedures that satisfy safety. This is a very serious situation, and I therefore hope that the Council of State in its statement will also explain this situation, so that everyone who travels on the railway can be sure that the safety of the rail network in Norway is sound and has to deal with it in accordance with the regulatory framework laid down by the Railway Agency. I would also like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1868	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1871	Railway maintenance has been given a large and important chapter of the NTP proposal submitted from the Etate, and we have been made aware of a significant delay. It's not right that more people have been talking about here from this pulpit before, that this is something we've known for a long time. It's true that we know about this in terms of roads, and it's been recognized by several parties. However, the fact that there is a backlog also on maintenance on the railway, in the order of NOK 5-6 billion, is now explained in the NTP proposal. The Oslo tunnel and Oslo as a hub is not a joke. There are big dramatic things happening when there are delays here, and when old, morning cables that don't tolerate water, short ends and small fires occur. Of course we can't have it like that. I remember that the previous government and the majority here in the Chamber had ambitions to get even more of the maintenance of the Railway Agency separated in their own businesses. Maybe then we would have avoided this -- who knows? At least most success in road is unique in this way. I would also like to draw attention to another matter that the Committee is dealing with, namely management systems in the state road system. Although it has nothing to do with rail, you are reasonably clear that if you had had the management systems you have at the State Road Service today, the hardly Hanekleiv accident would have happened. That is what the reports we are dealing with say nothing about. There might also be something to bring with it. It is good to have immediate action, and also all honour to the Council of State, who have addressed the matter. That's very good. The need is 100 million. kr, says the Railway Agency. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party have made a note on this, and that we expect this to be incorporated into the revised national budget. In today's evening post there is probably a slight leak from the revised, where the gentlemen Holmås and Bøhler suggest that this comes in the NTP. The majority here in the hall are more modest, they expect a statement. I'm a little surprised that government parties don't think it necessary to have a vulnerability analysis, an analysis that will obviously be necessary to point out flaws and shortcomings. So it was rejected by the majority. In the opinion of the Right, there is an absolutely necessary measure at a stage to improve the weaknesses that have been identified. In other words, we agree with the immediate measures. It is also good to focus on this in the revised version. Can we get an impact on our 100-million claim? kr, that's good too. However, a vulnerability analysis and proposal for improvements after the conclusion of such an action plan would provide a reassuring basis for a separate action plan, which we believe must be included in the NTP for the ten-year period we are entering. For me, it is incomprehensible that the government parties are simply taking the opportunity to vote against that proposal today. That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1888	Yeah, I'm sure that's a good idea. But we have chosen not to go in for it. Otherwise, it is quite right, as Mr Halleraker says, that the Council of State has addressed the problem in a completely different way than others have done before. Not least the Left knows what they're talking about, and they must have neglected it when they were in government, that Skogsholm didn't start the cleanup and maintenance profile when they were there. But that's the way it is. It's always easiest when you're out of government, and it was probably also overfocusing on the right profile of the government devoted to privatisation, supply, separation and so on. Then it's not so important if the railway stops, as long as you get privatized and put things on offer. Then everything will change, and the world will be much better. I guess that's what's made you forget the whole maintenance when you had the Minister of Transport yourself. So I want to remind those who promise more money and want more money for the railroad, that this government is actually following up on the NTP. So we make sure to follow the plan, and then it's not Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left's plan we follow, but the plural plan. I have to remind the Storting that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left actually believed that the level on which this NTP was attached was too large. There was too much money for the railroad, these parties said when they were in government. Now the hundreds of millions are very loose from the opposition's side, not as loose as the gun of George Bush, but still his millions are very loose to clean up in Norway when one has come out of government offices. What's very clear is that this government is betting on the railway, and we're betting on the maintenance profile. All this is a trick, but we are also making significant investments. In my area we build double tracks, one is finished with a new freight terminal, and billions of dollars are invested in the railway there. I hope we make sure to get a safe operation there. But we can't help but note that there are special things that relate to the Oslo area that now require us to take action -- which the council has started on -- not least in relation to the Oslo tunnel. I do not think there is a need for an own modernisation plan for this. I think everyone knows what challenges we're facing, and we've been briefed ourselves on the size of the amount. I'd like to philosophize a little over a problem, and it's tied to why me, probably by custom, clearing up when there's a road tunnel there's a problem in the-- the pier tunnel. We spent 200-300 million. I don't care if we had a bypass. When it comes to the Oslo Tunnel, we don't have any possibility of rerun, everything stops. But we don't do what we do with road tunnels, and I think that's a general fixture in all of the parties. Here I ask the question: can we now have a different hold for railway tunnels and railway problems than we might have had before? I think that this government is in a good way to show a completely different handling power than before. I want to say to Halleraker: I don't think what was in the evening post is a budget leak. There is probably more devout desire from the leader of the Oslo SV and the leader of the Oslo Workers' Party for something to come to the Oslo Tunnel in the revised national budget. For those who have been in government, and who know what one is allowed to say and not say, in fact, this is not a leak. That's probably a wish. We do not know anything today about what will be said about the Oslo Tunnel in the revised national budget. But of course we want him to be drawn with gravity, when we know that 120,000 people can be framed if he doesn't work. With these chosen words, I say thank you for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1907	This case does not really lead to anything new for the Oslo railway, but the case procedure has given us the opportunity to show that the Government and the Council of State are capable of action and targeted. Then we don't even need a new action plan. In order for the railways in Norway to be trusted by the users and to be competitive, things have to work. It is easy to understand the frustration of passengers who are delayed over and over again due to systems that fail. In order to ensure that train provision is good and develops to the best, it is a matter of having a smooth and adequate maintenance, taking the necessary investments, but it is also important that problems arise quickly. After the open hearing on 8 April this year, positive feedback was received from the project that the Government has undertaken to implement the relevant actions and to improve already in 2008. There was also a clear signal that the plan we have today with the National Transport Plan will be seen as adequate in order to be able to take good care of the development of the railway in the future. It is good that the Government has started the clearing work in the Oslo Tunnel, and I will show that further measures will be considered in the context of the revised national budget and the further budgetary work for 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1918	During the last two years, travellers in the Oslo area experienced a number of train traffic settings due to railway system installation failures. Several incidents have also revealed significant vulnerability to the network by the fact that minor incidents have paralysed large sections of traffic. Repeated settings due to errors in the railway works’ facilities help to weaken the trust in the railway as a reliable mode of transport. The consequence of this may be that several opt out of the railway as a means of transport. I take the train myself almost daily, and it's just a fraction of the events and delays captured by the media. Several times a week there is information about the signals error at Skøen, and there is no pleasant experience of seeing trains waiting in line to get a clear signal to run through the Oslo tunnel. A good and reliable rail service that is trusted by travellers is essential for getting more traffic across from road to rail, which we know will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, reduce road congestion and contribute to better air quality in urban areas. Railways have an important role to play in improving the urban environment. Operation and maintenance of the network has been a priority area for changing governments, but something must have gone wrong when one has underestimated the extent to which we are now experiencing. I would like to thank the President-in-Office and the Committee for supporting the Left's wish for an open consultation. And I'm glad so many attended the hearing. It was particularly important that the Railway Agency was clear on the need for short-term adhoc measures and more long-term measures. The railway system was clear that 100 million were needed. kr in the revised national budget to address the most urgent challenges. I therefore hope that the Left will receive support for its proposal here today, that the Government will grant the necessary funds for immediate action on the Oslo network in the context of the revised national budget for 2008. During the hearing, it was also stated that the Railway Agency had already ordered a consultation report on the railways in the Oslo area in 2006. The report revealed a significant lag in infrastructure and the need for major upgrades. The Railway Agency must have disclosed this information to the Ministry of Transport in the same year. I would therefore like to challenge the Council of State on why this was not made known, and why it was not already taken immediate action. Maybe a lot of what we've experienced lately could have been avoided. The letter from the Council of State states that she has ‘reduced a project that has been commissioned to carry out a review of the infrastructure with a view to identifying and proposing actions that can be implemented already in 2008’. I hope that in her article here today she will find out more about how far this project has come, and what will happen in the future. There is little to boast of the double track in the Western region and Lysaker station when the hub itself in the railway infrastructure fails. Finally, I am of course not surprised that the representatives Irene Johansen and Hallgeir H. Langeland are pointing to the previous government. This is what the red-greens have been doing for three years. Irene Johansen and Hallgeir H. Langeland should rather praise the proposal, because I know that both are railway enthusiasts, and they have obviously not come to realize that even the railway manager Killi has admitted that the railway system itself has underestimated the great aftertaste. Finally, I would like to address the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1947	The representative Borghild Tende has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1950	I agree with the committee that there is a need to fix the technical failures that have caused all the train settings in the Oslo area. Not least this is due to errors observed in the technical installations of the Oslo tunnel. A good and reliable rail supply is absolutely crucial to get people to use the railroad. This applies to both passenger and freight traffic. This was why I took the initiative to remove a project group that was hired by the Railway Agency, with the participation of the main train operators. The project group was tasked with identifying all technical errors and presenting concrete actions on what needs to be done, and in consultation with the train operators, how this could be carried out without creating excessive conflicts for train traffic on the train section in question. The project group reports to the department, which means that I follow the progress and results of the project more closely than usual. Following the messages received by the Department, the project is being carried out with great zeal and commitment by all the participants in the group. Work is going too far. Specific renewal measures have already been implemented, and I am not aware that there have been major operational deviations so far due to problems in and at the Oslo tunnel after the start of the work. As stated in the letter from the Ministry of Transport and Communications to the Transport and Communications Committee, which is printed in annexes to the Committee setting, and in which the majority of the Committee has agreed, I do not see it appropriate to make a separate action plan for the Oslo area when I have now set up a fast-working project group to implement the necessary measures as quickly as possible. In the current situation, train users are more concerned that problems will be solved than that even more action plans will be created. I want to follow up the project with the necessary permissions. The government will return to this in the 2009 budget proposal, possibly already in the context of the revised national budget for 2008. Major measures that require longer planning time will be followed up in the National Transport Plan for 2010-2019. I have noticed that the minority in the Committee refers to an external report implemented by the Railway Agency in 2006, on the aftermath of the renewal of the railway infrastructure, which has been passed on to the Ministry of Transport and that there is already an action plan for the railways in the Oslo area that is not adequately followed up. The ministry is well aware of this report, and the Stortinget was briefed on his slowest in St.prp. No 1 for 2008-2009, referred to as maintenance of the railway infrastructure. However, the Ministry has not been provided with its own action plan for the railways in the Oslo area in addition to the project proposals contained in the Railway Agency’s programme for the follow-up to the National Transport Plan 2006-2015 following the handling of the message by Stortinget. The Ministry has used this programme as a prioritized basis in its work on the annual budget proposals for the period 2006-2008 and will also use it in its 2009 budget proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1961	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1964	The government, the state council and the Progress Party have common goals in this matter, and it's urgent to clean up. What is new in the matter is that the maintenance delays have been underestimated and perhaps not properly mapped. What appeared clearly during the hearing came from the Railway Agency itself. They have projects worth 100 million. kr in 2008, and they expected to have projects for approx. 200 million. kr in maintenance work in 2009. They are also clear that they need to have these project funds in addition to normal frameworks, otherwise this effort will go beyond maintenance elsewhere. How will the Council of State ensure that clear signals are given on the necessary additional means to make this additional necessary upgrading of the railway infrastructure in the middle of Oslo’s central strike possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1971	First of all, I would say that it is touching to the right the concern of the Progress Party for the Iron Railway when a consideration is given to the enormous cuts that that party has made in its budget over time. When it comes to funding the necessary measures, I have already said in my speech that it is a budgetary matter. It will be assessed in the revised national budget and in the coming budgets. I don't have anything to add to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1978	I mentioned in my main post a newspaper release today about 100 million. kr more to the tunnel under Oslo. Then it's said by Langeland, who represents the government parties, that this is more to be seen as a "want" from the gentlemen I quoted. But it says: ‘Now there is a strong indication that the Government will provide an additional allocation of up to 100 million. kr in the revised budget for the current year.» To me it doesn't sound like a wish, it sounds more like an information. Can the Council of States confirm that this is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1988	Governments can confirm that it is a wish. I note that one in this essay refers to the Council of State by first name. It is nice to have a good relationship with my friends in the other government party. At the same time, they know that there is a collective government that prioritises this, so I'm going to do what I can to get my friends both in the Center Party, the Labour Party and SV to give priority to trade in this round as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e1995	My reply to the Council of State is about vulnerability, or rather about security. I stand here with a refusal to apply for a safety authorisation from the State Railway Authority. On page 19, we read the following: ‘Overall, the Railway Agency appears as an organisation without the control-command required to manage the risks involved in the operation’.» What's written in this letter is quite eye-catching. How can trains be operated if the Railway Agency does not have a safety authorisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2005	The question of security clearance is the result of an EU directive as far as we are concerned. There are only two countries per. today has completed the safety approval of their trains. One is England -- not least because they've had a lot of trouble with the iron track. It is not such that this Directive, or its failure to implement it, poses an acute danger. If that had been the case, the Railway Authority had to stop the operation of the train. This has not been done by the Railway Authority. I argued that one looked at the train operation as defensive. Security clearance is a lot about documentation of processes, written documentation. There are thousands of pages to write, with thorough documentation of all processes happening. It'll take time. The railway works do a job to get all the information on the table. Of course, I'm busy doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2010	I am a little satisfied with the answer I received in the first round. I record that the government parties in this case are talking about assessing measures in the revised version. In the evening post, representatives of the Workers' Party talk about wishes or input into the National Transport Plan. That is why I ask again: does the Council of State attach trust to the estimates made by the Railway Agency in consultation with the Committee during its work in Stortingen on this matter? Information provided by the Railway Agency in consultation in Stortinget is that, in order to implement its planned measures in 2008, and to clean up this chaos, they need 100 million. kr at least, and that they also in 2009 – and then the point is that it is one year before the new National Transport Plan – requires at least 200 million. kr. Is the Council of State confident in these estimates that the Railway Agency has provided on the necessary new means to clean up the situation that has existed and is still, in part, in the Oslo area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2018	There's nothing new for the Council of State in what has appeared during the hearing. That is exactly what the Railway Agency has said and has written to the Ministry, on our request, of course, in a process that has gone much further than the work on Document No. 8:65 for 2007-2008. There's nothing new in it. Nor is it new to the Council of State or to the representative of Sortevik that the answer to that kind of question will come in the various budgets, and not in the main room in a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2023	As I said in my post, I think the Council of State has shown the power of action to make things happen in a matter that concerns many. I also believe that she is able to think in the long term about the challenges ahead of us on this issue. Then is my specific question to the Council of State as responsible for the State Department, Ministry of Transport: Is she in agreement with the majority, who does not consider it necessary to analyse vulnerability in order to define what will be important challenges for this particular route, which creates so many problems whose faults occur?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2030	I agree with the plurality of their conclusions. As I also said in my article, there are no more analyses, more reports or more action plans that are needed. We have enough paper, and we kind of have enough documentation. The railway station knows what needs to be done. What is needed is simply action to get this going, and means, of course, to implement the necessary measures. That's what I have in focus, and that's where I'm trying to implement the measures that are needed to ensure the important distances that are here in the Oslo area, and not least the Oslo tunnel, which of course, with the pressure of trains that are there, and with the capacity utilisation that is there, is a very sore point on the Oslo railway system. But that's what we have in focus, and there's a job going to be done right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2035	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2040	There's no doubt that it's incredibly important that the railway works in the Oslo area. It is not only important for those who live in Oslo, but, as many have said before, it is also very important for the railways throughout the whole country, the passenger transport and the freight transport. Therefore, I would like to thank the Council of State for taking action and taking the initiative in this matter, and to ensure that the Railway Agency, together with the NSB and the other railway actors, has been able to agree on a plan that will enable the railway to carry out a number of important remedial actions. I see that what the proposer is asking for here today is that an action plan be presented in the form of a big message. Yes, if the big message were to remedy the situation, it would have to be the fastest written big message in Norway we're talking about here. I think it would have been better to channel his involvement in telephones and e-mails to the department, instead of launching a big hearing and a big debate here in the Chamber. It is not that I do not believe that the matter is important. I am myself from Holmlia and have driven the train a lot, and I get many telephones from there from people who are frustrated that the train is not coming, but we are therefore about to take some important steps to improve it. I am also a little provoked when the representative from the Left asked for a more modern railway, because it is actually that the red-green government had not received a majority in 2005 and increased the transport appropriations, because all the projects of the State Council of Skogsholm had stopped! Had it not been for the extra appropriations from the red-green government to the railway, the west corridor could not have continued! In some ways you can talk a lot about punctuality and efficiency, etc., but it is a fact that you don't have the money, you can't do the job either. Then it's no use, as more representatives from the Right have done here, saying that we should just organize ourselves for a little more money. One billion extra to the railway this year, which this government has provided, has actually meant something to us to keep to the standard we're doing now. So if we were to keep a higher standard, it had to be granted more, especially in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2049	I took the floor again to make a suggestion. That goes to the representative of Langeland. He's gone to the habit -- or unfamiliar -- that every time we have a trade policy case in the hall, he has the same post, actually. He can basically just copy it up and deliver it to the referees, and we save a lot of time. It's about the excellence of this government, almost in any case. I have hardly heard any representative who is so pleased with this government as Langeland. Then the vice versa is detachment on the previous government, and on why in earlier times you didn't do all the things that this government does. Now it's the way society is in a certain development all the time. I think most people will admit that. But that is another important prerequisite, as Mr. Langeland constantly forgets, and that is that in the previous period, among other things, was the basis for a fantastic tax entrance into this country. As a result, when we prioritised the national transport plan in the spring of 2005, we had NOK 132 billion less to travel with than we have today. In fact, the right in opposition has also shown itself to be using, so that each year we have had bigger budgets for different measures on the railway than the government. So Langeland is a little quick to mention both double tracks in his home state and the Ganddal terminal -- he took care of criticizing other representatives here earlier because they talked about projects in his home state, but with regard to himself, it's not that important. But these are probably also two projects that were adopted by the previous government, I think to remember. The high-speed thing -- which none of us has got so far, but, as Langeland himself has been doing for 15 years without almost anyone knowing about it at all -- has, after all, been given a quite significant position and position in the debate on transport policy, precisely in a situation where the Right has been involved in railway issues. So I stand by my suggestion. It's not a question of promoting it from here, is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2060	It'll probably be a little bit difficult, yeah.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2063	I'm not going to extend this case too, but I can't do anything when Truls Wickholm says what he says here from the pulpit. It's reasonably knowledgeless, just plain. State Council of Skogsholm in the previous government had never started those projects if she had not intended to complete them, with respect to reporting. And when it is said: Had only we also had the money that this government can surf! Because, as Halleraker also said in his previous post, the previous government had good economic governance. So it's getting too simple, and I don't think we're going to go on with such a simple rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2068	I thank the representative Halleraker for the proposal, but unfortunately it is not that I have a completed script. Then I have to start with it, and there will be more work for both the representative and others who will be in the support team of the representative. So I don't think I want to follow it. I understand that it is annoying for the Right, Left and Christian People's Party when I try to tell them that it is wise to do something when one sits in the government offices themselves. And I'll keep that in mind. So I'm of the opinion that it's very useful to keep the Left, Right and Christian People's Party out of government. Now I have recorded that they come up with proposals both on rail licensing and on bets in areas that they did not invest in when they were in government - a whole new policy course at all. When this government can also take care of the new political course of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party by saying that it will be closer to us, for example. There is nothing more important than keeping the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party away from the government offices, because then someone who can follow the ideas that these parties had not when they were in government, while when we're there, we follow them up. It's very good that we don't have the Left, Right and Christian People's Party in government, and that they're trying to be constructive in opposition. Then, to the best of our ability, we're going to try to realize the good suggestions they're making, so that they don't come back to government offices and they don't get to do anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2079	It is a pleasure for me to notice that he provokes some representatives so strongly that expressions as unknowing, with respect to reporting, just customs, etc. must be used to shut down the argument. I have to say that it made an indelible impression on me. In fact, in the last budget that the Bondevik II government put forward and presented in this room, there was a lack of money to keep progress on the west corridor. The Stoltenberg II government was able to find 500 million. extra in relation to that budget for the transport sector. Part of this money went to keep progress there. So either it was like it was just a Pea Budget from the Bondevik II government, where they were going to trick everyone else into thinking that they were for something they really weren't for, and against things they were really for, or it was the policy of Torild Skogsholm and Left that money wasn't to be spent there then, but that there were other things that were more important to that government at the time. It is a fact, and it may be the representative himself to examine in the budget that her own government presented, under the chapter of her own Council of State. In the end, since I got the chance to speak again, I just want to say that I think it is something precious when the Progress Party is now busy with our railway infrastructure. After all, it is a party that in most state budgets cuts into the state purchase system, i.e. a system that ensures that passenger trains are operated in the Oslo area. If we were to follow the direction of the Progress Party, that scheme would have been cut off, and we might not have needed the large investments in the railway sector, because there would not have been local trains in the Oslo area. It's also an approach to solving the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2088	The representative Halleraker is tired of hearing criticism from the previous government and praise from it. He points out that the previous government has the credit for today's good economic situation, and that the Stoltenberg government enjoys it when we now spend more money on transportation. Then I wonder that the previous government had no more faith that their economic policy would provide the good economic situation of the day, and thus adopted a more tense NTP than what they did. But today's majority predicted it and decided 22 billion more on the way and path than the Bondevik government provided in the previous period. Can the Halleraker and Tenden representatives explain that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2094	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox The President sees that there are probably 10 minutes left of the regulatory time for this morning's meeting, but still choose to start on case no. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3134]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2112	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and distributed up to 5 minutes per lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2121	As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I am curious about how many of the proposals that are being put forward here today, which, despite their long-term rejection, also in today's position, have been going to implement and produce as their own policies, after finally entering into dialogue with parts of the weight industry towards the end of last year. However, with slightly different words in majority and minority terms, we are now more united than before, as the proposal by the proposers and the various fractions of the Judicial Committee express a common concern about the development of parts of the private security industry. The use of sentinels and law enforcement agencies has increased dramatically in recent years, and there is a great need for good control procedures for a strong growth industry. There must be no doubt about the limits on the use of coercive substances. And in order to ensure that there is no slippage, which can give the more unprofessional part of an industry in growth a competitive advantage by pushing prices and quality at the expense of legal certainty, it is necessary to ensure that instrument training is quality guaranteed with clearer public requirements, that national instrument ID cards are introduced in order to be able to work as instruments in Norway, and that the police are required to notify the management of a watchkeeping company if one of their employees has committed criminal offences, or is suspected of serious criminal offences. In addition, it is important to take action to ensure that law enforcement officers and sentencing officers who commit serious undesirable and criminal acts can be quickly identified in all police districts through police computer systems, that police records should be required even after employment, and that individual companies must be given the opportunity to obtain this in case of suspicion of criminal offences committed by their own employees. It should also have the possibility, on its side, to carry out the same background checks as the companies. It is very small purpose to go to school if you do not qualify for a job afterwards. On TV 2 recently, the Council of State was clear and clear that some of these proposals will now be implemented. If he was not so clear in the entry that the proposals were not entirely sucked from his own chest, but in part were taken directly from the proposals that the government parties have soon voted down for two years, there is certainly a great deal of progress that something is now being implemented. I therefore ask that the Council of State here today clarify how the concrete progress of the necessary reforms, legislative proposals and legislative changes presented on TV 2 is, and when the Storting will be presented with a case on this matter. Despite a great deal of attention for a long time, I have received indications that some police districts are using a practice that is directly contrary to what the Storting has intended. I ask the Council of State to the extent that it is possible, confirm or disclaim whether it is correct to weigh in, for example. South-Trøndelag police districts do not need weight training to work as weights in Trondheim. According to the signals I have received as the case rapporteur, it is clear that it is only the police's law-enforcement course that is required as training in watchkeeping companies operating in Trondheim. There is also great doubt whether it is really necessary to apply for a guard company concession to hire doorkeepers and security guards for events and concerts. To the extent that it is true, I can see nothing but that it is a completely incorrect interpretation, and also distorting competition. So I hope the Council of State can comment on this. Other companies have at least the minimum standard that all instruments shall complete Tier I weightings before they are placed in a job-solving mode. The Oslo police district, if I remember correctly, has explained on its side that doorkeepers who are rented can only be hired out of guard companies, and that they should have a weight course to work in the guard company. Under the previous government -- we'll come back to it in the next debate, I think -- started a escalation of the number of places at the Police College. It is now being continued by the current government, but it needs to be combined with an active senior policy and better use of civil servants to strengthen police coverage in Norway. The government must also launch a long-term police study, including: with a view to establishing the basis that the need for private security services does not increase as a direct result of people losing confidence in the police’s ability to enforce order and order, due to insufficient operational frameworks. When I say, among other things, I say it in recognition of the fact that the industry we are going to debate here today is carrying out a variety of important social tasks that the police do not have, or have never taken, but that creates greater security for the population, and that it is also totally unrealistic to believe that it will be left to/acquired by the public alone because of the proceeds it could be expected to have, regardless of whether the council is called Storberget, Dørum or possibly Ellingsen or Aspaker. I take up the proposals of the minority in the committee, and I also hope that some of them can be adopted here today by means of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2142	The representative André Oktay Dahl has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2145	I think it's very nice that the opposition reads the Soria Moria statement, and that they're impatient when it comes to the point that we haven't even followed up. Then we can be a few that the Soria Moria statement is a refreshingly good document! The work on a review of the Acquisition Guard Act, which the representative Octay Dahl was also involved in, is under way, which all the members of the Judicial Committee should at least have brought with them. The working group that the Government has seen down shall review all aspects of the watchkeeping company’s operation, including ensuring that the approval, inspection and training of the weighing instruments is carried out in a satisfactory manner. It will also be assessed whether it is necessary to clarify the limits of the use of power and the use of power beyond, and whether today's rules are good enough or not. We red-green are of the opinion that the use of means of power should be handled by the public and be subject to public instructions. According to the mandate, the review will take place so that there is no change in the balancer's relation to the use of power. In order to clarify this even more, the strictest enforcement practices of the authorities should not be privatised. This means that its role will also be observation, control and reporting in the future. The last point of the proposers will also be assessed by the all-down working group, which is well-in-place in its work. Only training and evaluations related to the intensification of educational requirements and content in education are at the heart of this work. I see that the Right Party and the Progress Party refer to the previous committee's comments in connection with the fact that five new positions that the police should have to strengthen the control function are also to be resolved. However, these settings were not addressed by the previous government, as they actually had access to it. The majority in today's justice department have said that we do not want an earmark of police positions for this work. We have given the police clear instructions on what to pay more attention to, and will not go into the Right and the Advance Party's line here, that watchkeeping is more important than, for example. selected in close relationships, where the opposition does not have any representations. The proposal for a dot arrangement concerning a certificate of good conduct works on me bureaucratic and heavy, for either there is a satisfactory reputation and the confidence required to work as an instrument, or one does not. The term of office of the working group will also indicate whether the ownership structure is problematic. The funding of this service is not quite clear to me how the opposition wants, but we red-green have asked that the all-down working group also look at this and assess a fee scheme, including an annual fee instead of a single fee, as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-06.ana.ud1406e2160	The morning meeting is about to start, and the meeting will now be suspended. The evening meeting will be held at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
