ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e70	The representative of Hill-Marta Solberg, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. They called the alternates, for Hordaland County Knut Arild Hareide and for Oslo Olaf Thommessen, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e95	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e111	Increased international cooperation in the fight against terrorism, new laws and provisions conflicting with the Community's need for protection, together with ever-increasing developments in the field of technology, place great demands on those who are to exercise control of the so-called secret services. It is therefore very nice to note that a joint committee expresses great satisfaction with the work of the EOS Committee. The committee's work aims to ensure that there is no injustice to individuals in the provision of intelligence, surveillance and security services and that activities take place within the framework of elected bodies have been established. I am pleased to note that in 2007 there was no serious routine failure or serious situation. I am also pleased that Stortinget's steering signals are explicitly commented on in the Annual Report for 2007. In the year behind us, a number of inspections have been carried out in all services, and a number of internal work meetings have been held in the sample. Furthermore, the sample has had extensive contact with similar bodies in other countries. There is a slight increase in the number of complaints, but none of them have given rise to criticism of any of the services. Let me say a little bit about the selection's control of the police security service, PST. In the light of the refusal of individual transparency requirements, the sample has found reason to take a closer look at PST’s practice of the Security Act and the Public Procurement Act and how the rules are designed. The issue has been addressed both with the PST and the Ministry of Justice, and an overall committee asks to be briefed on the outcome of the 2008 Annual Report review. The procedures for the exchange of information between the PST and the Directorate for Foreign Affairs will also be further explored. In this area, there are many difficult issues, and it is vital that the cooperation between these two bodies works well. The so-called Transparency Act, which has now been repealed, gave individuals the right of access to information about themselves in the surveillance police records. Too many people represented the right to see the folder say a breakthrough in order to be able to clean up rumors and accusations. For the sake of the researchers' ability to write about this part of our history, it is important that information of importance is ensured for the posterity of transmission to the National Archives. The question of whether a person who has been deleted or not registered as his own object, as it is called in that terminology, should be able to form in the PST register in relation to another object, is of fundamental importance. An overall committee underlines the importance of clear guidelines and has noted that the sample has asked for a response from the PST. In our globalised world, there is an increasing need for the provision and exchange of personal data between cross-border cooperative services. This is important and necessary, but it must always be such that the purpose of providing the information must be proportionate to the consequences for the person concerned. I am pleased that the conditions for the provision of such information are now laid down in the guidelines, which allows the EOS Committee to monitor its compliance. The question of the use of hidden coercive agents was a topic during the examination of the 2006 Annual Report of the Selection Board. Use of communication control, room listening, search, etc. to clarify matters, but also to avert criminal offences, impose strict requirements on the exercisers of the authority. It is reassuring that controls carried out in 2007 have not provided a basis for criticism. During the examination of the 2006 annual report of the sample, it was foreseen that guidelines for cooperation between the PST and the customs authorities should be established. As of today, this is not done. According to the Directorate for Customs and Fees, a cooperation agreement between the Directorate and the PST has been correctly signed, but there are still no guidelines in this area. An overall control committee requires a high priority to be given to the preparation of such guidelines. In the case of the National Safety Authority, NSM, the sample dealt with two complaints relating to safety clearance, in which one of them, decided by the FSA, was criticised. During the examination of the annual report of the year, the Control and Constitutional Committee referred to a complaint for a request for authorisation for ‘Restricted’ after his safety clearance had been revoked. This case is still unresolved and the control committee assumes that the matter is immediately dealt with. In the event of an incurrency, the comment refers to the treatment of another case of defence personnel that the EOS Committee has previously commented on and that the Stortinget has had to deal with. The status of this case is not set out in the annual report of the EOS Committee. Otherwise, the sample samples have revealed weaknesses in the treatment of clearing cases by State Building and also revealed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs still does not comply with established procedures for the authorisation of staff related to foreign relations. I assume that these conditions are corrected. So a little bit about the E-service. I am pleased to record that the number of inspections of the E-service has increased in line with the Committee's recommendation, and that this is considered to have helped to provide the sample with a better basis for assessing the activities. Technical progress is accelerating. It is therefore essential that the control of the service is directed towards the provision of technical information and that the sample has sufficient technical competence to assess effectively the issues raised by the control. Interaction with foreign intelligence services creates specific challenges. It is positive that the 2007 sample has established a control procedure for the interconnector systems in the service and that the E service has contributed to facilitating inspections by the sample in this area. The question of the law on intelligence services as a basis for using interventional methods and what it has to say about whether a method is lawful or not has been assessed. A joint committee shares the Ministry's view that the use of new methods requires political approval in order to be legal. Safeguarding procedures for the notority and documentation of the policy authorisation process of the service’s methods and operations are a prerequisite. In the case of urgency, good procedures must be established. It is absolutely necessary that the information exchange between the PST and the E service follow specific procedures. The establishment of a preliminary joint analysis unit for the two activities from 2008 could contribute to improving analytical capacity both quantitatively and qualitatively. Last year’s annual report briefed on investigations into any illegal catch transport on Norwegian soil. The surveys carried out by the sample did not provide any indication that the service should be involved or have knowledge of such activities. The ad hoc modules carried out in 2007 with the Norwegian aviation authorities also reinforce this conclusion. In recent years, a number of private security companies have been established to provide security, intelligence, screening, etc. services. Internationally, developments have reached even further, including police services and parts of military responsibilities. This is a serious development, and it is very important that these companies be controlled. I have noticed with satisfaction that the Minister of Justice, among others. in an article in the Evening Post on 23 May, is concerned with this issue and will put in place measures to control the ‘cleaning’ of the security sector. The work of the EOS Committee is very important and comprehensive. Finally, let me once again underline the Committee's satisfaction with the work carried out by the EOS Committee on behalf of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e155	I need to sign out what the committee deals with in individual circumstances in its position. For us in the Ministry of Justice and in the Government, it is imperative that we now ensure the confidence of the police and the PST in particular in their work in the fight against very serious crime. In this way, I am very excited about the work done by the EOS Committee. It is also useful for us in our management of the police and how it is organised, to have that work with us. In the constitutional responsibility of the Government, among others: for the use of methods in the prevention track, the EOS Committee also provides an important effective basis for monitoring. I just need to say from this speaker that we are at a time when we are more than ever dependent on ensuring the legitimacy of the relatively intrusive methods, such as: The security service of the police has been given the opportunity to use. If that legitimacy is lacking, I am convinced that the effectiveness of doing research in as difficult areas as the PST does is indeed flawed. So here it's not just questions of control and something that might possibly weaken efficiency, it's rather the opposite of something that helps to enhance efficiency. I underline it. In addition to this, we have also been informed by the Government and have taken the initiative that the PST should be based more on transparency in the political debate on both the size of the budget, including the size of the budget. telephone and space listening and control are, and also the role to be played in the public space. It shall contribute to strengthening legitimacy. That's the only premise that we could say that the methods used should be based on the law of the state. I need to say that the matters raised by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs will, of course, be further worked on in the Department, so that we can meet the points pointed out by the EOS Committee and forwarded to us by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e166	I just want to link some very brief comments to the significance of the EOS Committee. The EOS Committee was born in conflict, after a period when serious abuses were detected against individuals in Norway. It was a lengthy battle about how to ensure that the secret services came under some sort of control. The solution that Stortinget chose, with an EOS committee where individuals could turn and have their legal certainty ensured, has proved to be very good and appropriate. It gives the services greater legitimacy, as the Council of State was also concerned about - it of course gives legitimacy to the Norwegian community that there is a parliamentary body that ensures the legal security of individuals. Today, when we have - and this is not the first time - a unanimous attitude from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which means that all parties in the Stortinget are behind the position that exists here, on how the EOS Committee in its contact with the various services has done its job, it says very much that we have managed to find a model for this which both the Storting and, not least, the Norwegian community have seen fit to serve, and which ensures the safety of the citizens. This is in itself quite special. As far as I know, very few other countries have such strong parliamentary control over something as secret services in the various departments. When I want to say this, it is primarily because those who have been here in the house for many years, remember how the Lund Commission and the aftermaths of the shaken Norwegian society, shaken the parliamentary system, shaken governments. And that means that the solution we then found was good, long-term and forward-looking. Therefore, the EOS Committee should have all manner of honor and honor for doing a proper, decent job, on behalf of the Stortinget and on behalf of the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e177	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e193	The purpose of the National Audit Office’s investigation has been to examine the extent to which the Ministry of Justice is responsible for the coordination of social security in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. The study concludes that there are weaknesses at ministerial level in overall risk and vulnerability analysis for the whole department area. There are also weaknesses in the follow-up of the Ministry of Justice’s supervisory work in the departments and the prioritisation of social security work in the ministerial governance dialogue. Furthermore, the Ministry of Justice has played a small part in the active role of the Ministry of Coordination in the field of social security. As a result of the evaluation of the experience of the river disaster in South Asia, a review of crisis management was carried out centrally. A number of measures were then taken in the extension to strengthen future crisis management. The Board of Governors of the Government was set up and a new crisis support unit was set up to provide support functions for the Ministry of leadership and the Council of Crisis in their crisis management. The Ministry of Justice would continue to be the Ministry of Coordination in the field of social security. The National Audit Office’s report suggests that some still remain, before the work in this area is fully satisfactory. It is necessary for all departments to have overall risk and vulnerability analyses for the whole of their department’s responsibilities and to be planned and trained in order to deal with crises and disasters that may occur. The Ministry of Justice must actively use its coordination responsibilities, to the extent necessary, in order for all departments to do their bit of the job. It is also necessary to assess whether the Ministry of Justice, as part of its coordination responsibility, should step up the follow-up work of the departments, following the monitoring visits of the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness. It is alarming that several departments believe that the coordination responsibility of the Ministry of Justice is unclear. This must be addressed by the Ministry of Justice, so that uncertainties are cleared up by the road. Exercises are important and necessary to test the functioning of plans and actions. The old word word word ‘exercise master’ applies here, too. All departments have to conduct their own exercises regularly and on a regular basis, and major exercises relating to several departments and social institutions, such as the Oslo exercise in 2006. The evaluation of this exercise showed that not everything worked as well. Experience from this needs to be taken into account, and the weaknesses need to be corrected. During the exercise, some grey zones were also revealed. Such grey zones are required to be identified in order to clarify responsibilities. We are still seeing examples of modern society being a vulnerable society. People need to be confident that we have a readiness to deal with crisis situations that arise in a coordinated, good and effective way. The size of the population regularly discusses social security work. The government has recently promoted a new big message on the matter, which will be dealt with until the autumn. In this respect, I believe that the Stortinget will also discuss more concretely both organisational issues and crisis management work. The Progress Party has its own comment and a proposal in its position on the organisational location of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. The Christian People's Party disagrees with the proposals of the Progress Party, but this is a matter that should be considered in a wider context, if necessary, such as: when examining the current societal security message.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e212	Prepared for the unexpected, whether it comes from nature or from man, is important, but demanding. Our society is vulnerable. Our expectations that everyday life is passing on to what we are used to, almost independently of weather and leadership, have become great. It also increases the requirements for preparedness and a quick solution when problems arise. The work on social security is based on the principle of responsibility and subsidiarity. That means that whoever is responsible when it goes normal is also responsible when it goes wrong. That's the way it has to be. The one who knows the business is best equipped to deal with the unexpected and unfamiliar as well. But in a society -- if not everything is related to everything -- there is a lot of interrelated -- there is a need for coordination and interaction, both in terms of preparedness planning, and when accidents or accidents are out. That responsibility is politically placed with the Ministry of Justice. So we're in a classic dilemma. A shared responsibility can be quickly powdered. On paper everything is distributed and clear. However, it is clear from the National Audit Office’s report that some people with operational responsibilities, both for planning and implementation on the basis of the principle of accountability and subsidiarity, still expect coordination officers to be more helpful. In addition, the experience of the Oslo exercise, which also affected the case-rapporteur, shows that reality is perceived differently, which is also no great surprise. In other words, the National Audit Office's report shows that there is a basis for improvement. This is a field where there is no political disagreement about the importance, although there may be some differences in which organisation is believed to be most effective. The Progress Party believes that the Office of the Prime Minister should be responsible for coordination. It will not remove the dilemma between the principle of responsibility and the principle of subsidiarity. It just wants to shift responsibility. Besides, I think we're going to stick to the principle that it's the government that organizes its own business. Because there is a broad consensus on the importance of this, it should facilitate the constructive treatment of the notification already sent by the Minister of Justice - St.meld. No 22, Social security. It was approved by the Council of State on 9 May, i.e. a few weeks after the Committee of Inquiry gave its opinion on the present case. The message includes: based on the weaknesses revealed by the National Audit Office’s investigation. The Ministry of Justice will launch a review of the existing guidelines for the coordination role in order to clarify and define this role. It is necessary to do so when some of those for which the coordination role is intended to be an auxiliary engine confuse the auxiliary engine with the main engine. One of the problems in this picture is that the Minister of Justice, who coordinates and supervises his colleagues in government, has no authority to instruct. But colleagues are wise to make sure that they do something about the shortcomings of supervision, i.e. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness points out. For something goes wrong than it could have done because the responsibility has not been taken in advance, it is they and not the Minister of Justice who has to answer for themselves here in the Chamber. The Ministry of Social Security Coordination Councils are already in place, which should mean that coordination works as intended at this level. It is important and should facilitate the steering signals beyond the various departments in this area. The most important thing now is that the Storting has the opportunity to continue its efforts to strengthen our overall preparedness through its treatment and to help the National Audit Office, the next time it looks at this area, produce an audit report that is without serious comments. Let me just add that if our overall societal preparedness is to be without serious weaknesses, all other actors must also assume their responsibilities - the municipalities, the business community and the individual of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e241	I would like to first mention the suggestion that is included on page 8 of the option. I would just like to highlight briefly the importance of following up the Storting's call for emergency preparations to be planned according to a common pattern. We are not so dissenting about this. I want to refer to the case-speaker and in so far also to the representative Hansen's posts - it's a broad term. It's a little awkward about the organization. We are of the opinion that when it comes to major matters, we think it is right that they be placed under the Prime Minister's office and that they are the prime minister's responsibility. It is not said that it is not a responsibility of the entire government. With the background of the National Audit Office's investigation and detection of several weaknesses in the existing system and an increasing image of terror - we've experienced the latest days too - we want to refer to the Innst. S. No 265 for 2004-2005 on the river wave disaster in South Asia, which is one of the ‘Remarks to Cape’. 7 - Crisis management at strategic level’ focuses on the system of responsibility for leaders according to the type of disaster involved. We believe this system is a little bit of property and implies weaknesses. That is why we propose to add to the top level of government, i.e. the Prime Minister's office, that it assumes responsibility for the work on social security. Finally, with the experience of the accident that happened in a town in Norway recently, I have to say that I have felt on the body how important it is that the organization is good, and that the responsibility should be placed there, and so far at the highest level. It's important that people out there know who's in charge, where it is, and who's going to turn. I thought that when we have as big ugliness as the ones that have been mentioned here, among other things. The natural disaster in South Asia, and when we see some others coming through the threat of terrorism, we thought it was important to shift this responsibility up to the highest level in the Government, and that the Prime Minister's office is the one with the relevant responsibility. At the end of the day, it is the Prime Minister who is also responsible for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e254	The representative of Lodve Solholm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e257	Let me start by saying that the major events we have had in our own country that have called for coordination and that have called for efforts from several agencies show that we have challenges of coordination at many different levels. The representative Svein Roald Hansen was in on it. There are many actors who are responsible and who have to be responsible. At the same time, the experience that we gain from events in Norway too - whether it is flood or race or what happened in Ålesund - shows that we have a great potential to provide much strength in critical situations. And a lot of that work is going well. It is a good incentive to go further both in terms of strengthening coordination between local and private and public authorities, and not least in terms of the coordination responsibilities of the Ministry of Justice. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s investigations is to examine the extent to which the Ministry of Justice discharges its responsibility for social security coordination in line with the Stortingen assumptions. The National Audit Office questions whether the Ministry of Justice has strengthened the coordination responsibility of, inter alia: to point to weaknesses in the following areas: work on overall risk and vulnerability analyses at department level, follow-up to the monitoring of the security and preparedness work of departments and the safeguarding of social security in the ministerial governance dialogue with agencies. These recordings and these views of the Riksrevision and the assessments of the Riksrevision have been central to our work on the big news that has now been presented in May on social security. The National Audit Office’s study has provided a very important basis for the review of the Ministry of Justice’s coordination role in this paper. It has also been a very important basis for the actions we are outlining in this Communication, which we are in the process of implementing. The Communication presents measures to strengthen social security at local, regional and central levels, including: a municipal emergency response obligation is launched, which implies an obligation for municipalities to establish contingency plans and carry out risk and vulnerability analyses at their level. However, no sector alone can prevent or address all societal security challenges. Intersectoral cooperation and coordination are essential and demanding. I would like to stress that it is the ordinary constitutional responsibility that underpins social security work, both in terms of preparation and in terms of handling. In addition to this, I am assigned a coordinating role to ensure a comprehensive and coordinated preparedness, and I also supervise the ministry's work on security and preparedness. In order to increase the resources available to ministries in crisis situations, a crisis support unit was established in 2006, as has also been reported, and in the day-to-day context, the unit contributes to the preparedness work of the departmental community. The Communication presents measures to strengthen the role of coordination. I will just briefly point out some of the measures we consider to be appropriate and can help to address the challenges we are now facing in terms of the role of coordination. The expectations of each department's on-going preparedness shall be made clear. The follow-up to the monitoring of the departments by the Ministry of Justice shall be more adapted to each department. In line with the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government will place increased emphasis on the use of exercises at all levels. The Ministry of Justice shall pay greater attention to the organisation of cross-sectoral exercises, such as: a national ICT exercise in 2008 and a pandemic exercise in 2009. I have taken action to ensure that at all times I am informed in a good, sufficient and timely manner about current events and issues that have implications for social security. It shall include, inter alia: a contact person is appointed in the Ministry for this purpose. In order to ensure good cooperation between key actors, regular joint meetings will be held between the Minister of Justice and the Police Directorate, the Police Security Service, the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness and the National Security Authority to strengthen coordination and coordination. The Ministry’s Social Security Coordination Council, also mentioned, was established in 2007 as a central forum for the exchange of information and experience between ministries in the field of social security and preparedness, rescue services and civil-military cooperation. I've already got the DSB to develop an advisor for the ministry's work on social security and preparedness. Departments have also received a new Information Preparedness and Crisis Communication Guide, which provides practical advice on communication actions before, during and after a crisis, partly based on the experience we have gained from Exercise Oslo. The Ministry of Justice shall facilitate more widely risk, threat and vulnerability assessments as a common planning basis in different sectors. We need to take greater initiatives to identify grey zones and clarify responsibilities. In addition, I would like to review the existing guidelines for the coordination role, so that the expectations of the departments are made clear and my coordination role is clarified and defined.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e293	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e309	Today, the size handles the 2007 Annual Report from Stortingets ombdsmann for the administration, Document No. 4 for 2007-2008. It is important to point to the ombudsman's important function in an open, pluralistic, democratic society. According to the Constitution § 75 (l) and under the Law of 22 June 1962 No. 8 it is the task of the Storting to appoint a person for a period of four years to be transparent to the public administration and to all those working in this service, in order to seek to ensure that there is no injustice to the individual citizen. In accordance with Section 12 of the Final Act, an annual notice is to be sent to the Stortinget on the Ombudsman’s activities. This year, as in previous years, the Committee finds the annual report of the Ombudsman rich, informative and transparent. The number of cases with the ombudsman has increased somewhat in relation to previous years. In 2007, 2,126 complaints were received, while in 2006 the number was 2,027. In 2005, there were 1,956 complaints and 1,932 in 2004. The number of cases raised by the ombudsman following own initiative was 41 in 2007, which was about the same as in 2006, but it was clearly lower than in 2004, when 64 cases were raised by the ombudsman. As an example of a case raised by the ombudsman, the investigation was of the hopes of the police's foreign exchange at Trandum. This case was brought before the Stortinget on 15 February 2007 in the form of a notification, Document No. 4:1 for 2006-2007. There is a great deal of scope in the cases the ombudsman is given for handling, or which he takes upon his own initiative. In particular, many of the cases dealt with by the ombudsman, there is often a telephone to the administration enough to resolve the cases. Many of the cases relate to a long period of time. Of the complaints received, 170 have been raised by some form of criticism or appeal to the administration. This shows that the administration acts largely conscientiously and correctly. The Civil Ombudsman raises in his opening questions whether the Ombudsman should be given the right to assess the use of understanding in the administration, and not only, as today, when there is ‘clearly unreasonable’ use of understanding. This must, in the Committee's opinion, be judged against the level of understanding which must always be present where the legislation should not become too rigid and, in others, against the political space of action which local political bodies must have in order to make local democracy alive. In addition, the cases of the ombudsman show that there are very few cases that end up with criticism or incitement, with the rules the ombudsman has today on just going into the cases where there is a clear unpractice of understanding. Therefore, it does not seem likely that an extended relationship to the use of understanding in situations where this is not clear would reveal several serious weaknesses in the administration. In relation to this, the Committee believes that there is no basis for changing this at the present time. Should this change radically, there will be reason to take a closer look at this from the point of view of the individual citizen's legal security. A person must always be on the lookout after making the ombudsman scheme the best possible for the person to whom the scheme is to apply. The Civil Ombudsman also raises questions as to whether some form of economic impact should be introduced when the administration violates the rules of procedure. Given that the large number of cases dealt with by the Ombudsman is being resolved, the Committee does not consider it necessary, or that there is a real need, to introduce such a system now. To the extent that the management of its breach of the rules of procedure or administrative practices leads to financial loss or damage to that debt, this should be resolved in line with current case-law, as is currently the case. It is positive that the ombudsman is committed to the work of human rights. It is in line with the mandate of Section 3 of the Ombudsman Act. Work on human rights is an important and comprehensive field in both national and international contexts. I still think it must be right to focus most on the work of caring for human rights in our own country. I found it positive that the ombudsman organised a seminar in Oslo in 2007 on human rights, entitled ‘Prohibition of the protection of human rights in Norway’. This seminar is particularly targeted at people without legal suspension in Norway and people who are dependent on public statements. On Thursday 22 May 2008, the Stortinget debated a draft constitution to establish human rights. A gathering was of the opinion that this had to come, but the majority said that one should wait until the Human Rights Committee had presented the setting in June 2009. One finds large groups in the Norwegian community who are difficult to take care of themselves, and who therefore need special follow-up. This applies, for example: children in contact with child protection, patients at both somatic and psychiatric institutions and the elderly living in institutions. Subject to section 5 of the Ombudsman Act, the ombudsman has a mandate to take a closer look at these findings. It is quite clear that this is a question of capacity - but it is an important subject, and it is important that the Ombudsman in the next few years has a special focus on these fields. The Ombudsman's case-handling time may be relatively long when it concerns complex issues involving external actors. It is therefore particularly important that the ombudsman shows this remarkableness, and that the procedures for following up cases are subsequently assessed. Ein sees that there is a need for the period of appeal set out in ombudsmannslova § 6 to be assessed. For some actors, conflict with public authorities may appear rather traumatic, not least because the individual would normally be the weak party in contact with a counterparty with large resources and a good level of legal certainty. It must be borne in mind that many, not least the less resourceful, have not even heard about the custodian and there was a need for a complaint through this agency. If the appeal period is extended, it will probably lead to an increase in the amount of proceedings before the Ombudsman, which will require greater resources. This must be balanced against the legal certainty of the groups concerned, where a one-year period of appeal would be a barrier to a case being brought. The ombudsman himself has the right to raise a case, even if the time limit for submitting a complaint has been exceeded. It is not clear from the Annual Report Chapter 4 if any of these matters were complaints that were outside the 12-month timeframe. It is important for the Ombudsman to pay attention to the public obligation to provide guidance, which of course also applies to groups with limited resources. One might say that the arrangement with an agent for the administration is a success. It is important to facilitate the continuation and development of this system in line with modern society. I think it's in place to commend the Ombudsman for the work that is being done, and one note that the number of matters that are taken up after their own initiative is increasing. This returns a stronger element of dynamic. But it is important to point out that this does not have to go beyond the other work. The Committee, as I said, finds the annual report rich and well structured. The annual message gives a very good picture of a number of different problem settings in relation to different management areas, while at the same time addressing the situation of users facing the administration's practice of laws and regulations. Legislation is a dynamic process where there will always be room for improvement, and annual reporting is a good tool for assessing how some laws and regulations work in practice. No wrong shall be done against the individual city. This is an important principle in a rule of law and an important basis for the Ombudsman’s control function.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e339	In addition to the rapporteur's excellent contributions, I have some comments. The Ombudsman’s activities in 2007 are extensive and it shows that the Ombudsman’s audit is for ordinary people when they have problems with the administration. There is a large and rich annual report presented by the Civil Ombudsman for 2007. The content has a large width, and it gives a good picture of the business. In view of the many issues that come to consideration, there is good reason to note the solution-oriented form of work that is being practised, so that matters can be resolved quickly. This may also indicate that the Civil Ombudsman is met with respect in the administration, and that enquiries from the Ombudsman are taken seriously. But there's also a sign that Norwegian administration is really trying to meet people in a good way. Fortunately, it is relatively rare that matters that people experience that there are weaknesses and go to the Ombudsman with them are of a very serious nature. The reason the Civil Ombudsman has for dealing with his own matters is important. In 2007, 41 such cases were raised, and the scope and size of these cases are evidence of the functioning of the scheme. An example that highlights this is the case of the planning and building kit in the Municipality of Oslo, where the processing time was central. The annual report provides an overview of the average duration of treatment with the Civil Ombudsman. A more detailed analysis of the time taken by the different types of cases could have been desirable. This would include, inter alia: provide a better basis for assessing the resource situation of the Ombudsman. In order for local democracy to be kept alive, local political bodies must have the opportunity to use discretion, otherwise the legislation may become rigid and reduce the scope for political action. This must be weighed against whether the Civil Ombudsman should be given the right to exercise discretion in the administration, and not, as today, only when this is clearly unfair. It does not seem particularly likely that an extended right to use such discretion for the Civil Ombudsman in cases where it is not clearly unreasonable will reveal several serious administrative weaknesses. The Civil Ombudsman also raises the question of whether some form of financial impact should be introduced when management violates the rules of procedure. Since a very large proportion of the issues raised by the Civil Ombudsman are being resolved, the Committee has not found that such a system needs to be put in place. However, there is reason to stress that long processing time is an additional burden for those concerned, and for the purpose of the case. Long processing time weakens the trust in the administration. Respect for the citizens is linked to the ability of the administration to respect the administrative law, the Publicity Act and the principles of good administration. The Committee considers that there is a need to look at Section 6 of the Ombudsman’s Act on the time limit for appeal, not least because individuals would normally be the weak party in contact with a counterparty with a high level of resources. Many smaller resources have probably not even heard of the Civil Ombudsman and the right to complain. It may affect the legal certainty of such groups. This has to be assessed against the fact that the amount of the case will increase in the longer term and that this will most likely require increased resources. It is therefore very important that public advice be given to groups of limited resources, and it is gratifying that the Civil Ombudsman should pay particular attention to this important work. In the end, there is reason to reiterate and underline what is also clearly mentioned in the Annual Report, namely that the administration acts broadly conscientiously and correctly. But I believe that this does not weaken the need to have an outside and unhindered body, which can, on a factual basis, assist the inhabitants in the matter of injustices which they believe they are exposed to by the administration or authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e356	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e372	So this case is so unusual as a proposal that Stortinget asks the Supreme Court for an opinion as to whether or not a legislative amendment proposed by the Government is in line with the Constitution. It's in the setting. The majority, the government parties, don't want to use such an opportunity. The minority, represented by the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, want to use such an occasion in the Constitutional Act § 83, which the President also referred to. However, there is agreement on the following description: «The Committee refers to the proposal for amending Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act.» This is the background to the matter. ‘The main content of the instruction is that landowners of State plots shall be able to redeem land at a price lower than that resulting from the Law on Landing and that the fixing fee shall be reduced in relation to the Law on Landing.’ And on the other hand, ‘It is assumed in the bill that the Information Service’s fund will lose approximately SEK 1.0-1.25 billion on these lower redemption values, and in the order of 20-25 million. annual kronor as a result of the reduction in fixed income.» So far there is consensus. The minority believes that the legal question is whether such a transfer of values is in line with the management prescribed by the Basic Law § 106. The minority consider that the amendment to the Law on the Information Society's Fund § 5 and the new Santa Claus directive - which is closely linked, the instructions have actually been adopted before the amendment - could require a constitutional amendment, with the related formal requirements for thorough processing and qualified majority in the Storting, and consider the Government Party's procedure to be an attempt to circumvent these rules. So if this were to have been treated as a constitutional change, it would require a different majority and treatment in two of the following sizes. The minority is of the opinion that there is very much doubt as to whether the new Santa Claus directive and the proposed provision of the Law on the Foundation's Fund § 5, second paragraph, are within the framework of the Constitution § 106 withdraws, because values are moved for purposes outside the «Best of the Spirituality and the Promotion of Information». There can not be very much doubt that promoting the sale of more reasonable plots and reduced fastening fees is a purpose that can excite those involved. However, it is difficult to see that it would contribute to the «Best of the Mind and the Advancement of Information». In other words, we believe that this is contrary to the guidelines that should apply to the Information Society Fund. This proposition on the amendment of § 5 was originally announced last autumn and came to Stortinget only on 15 May - very late. Of course, the Storting Church Committee faced the challenge that the treatment time of a proposal as a large minority - that is, the entire opposition - does not allow proper treatment time. Now I understand that the trade committee has decided to give the position before Stortinget meets again for the autumn, but not before the summer holidays. It gives a little longer treatment time, but is a very unusual form of treatment to be such a case - that hearings are to be held while the Stortninget is not assembled, and that the setting should be given before the Stortinget meets again in the ordinary way until the harvest. This also means that the government parties have accepted, as far as I can see, that the regulations cannot enter into force on 1 July 2008 but only late harvest, as far as I understand 1 November of the same year. Then comes the question of whether to use the opportunity to present the case to the Supreme Court, as the Constitution actually provides a basis for. There is no doubt that there is a procedure that Stortinget has very rarely used. I see that the government parties are so kind that they have quoted former staging president Hambro and a former staging representative, also from the Right. They should do that more often. I think that's a good move. I agree with the above-mentioned representatives that the absolute exception should be to use such a rule and that there is reason to think well before using a rule to present it to the Supreme Court. But those who base the most serious fundamental and constitutional arguments for not using this constitutional rule should think so, at least on the following point: Why have these representatives - i.e. for the present government parties - not proposed to repeal that constitutional provision, if you think it is so wrong to do so? In fact, one argues that this should not be done, because it can put the Supreme Court in the situation that the Supreme Court is giving its opinion on a case whose interpretation we can later be treated as a single case, as an appeal, for example. in legal proceedings. The majority believe that the Supreme Court obviously does not see this danger of a certain collision. I have probably the confidence in the Supreme Court, which, for the rest of the government has had in a number of other cases, that the Supreme Court knows how to sort such a treatment in the right way. And if the government parties were to think that that's impossible, it raises again the question of why not this constitution has previously been proposed removed. So the minority believes that this case has far-reaching consequences and has significant aspects of principle. It has far-reaching consequences because it actually deprives the Information Society's fund of essential parts of its values for purposes far beyond the basic law that the Information Society's fund is to operate with, and because it could also have consequences in the gradual release process - in order to use that expression - that the Norwegian Church is now to begin, i.e. the independence of the State, not the real sense of the word, but at least a significant process of change. There is no doubt, based on the reactions of church bodies, the Preste Association and others, that the attack on the Information Society's fund is considered to have far-reaching consequences, seen from a church standpoint. With these reasons, I address the minority's proposal to refer the matter to the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e409	The representative Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e412	It is not surprising that the opposition is trying to train and preferably prevent the Government from implementing what it has promised in the Government's platform in terms of the law on Santa Claus. In this case, it is therefore a matter of ensuring that those who have attached land to state landowners can get their land paid for decent sums in proportion to the fixed fee they claimed. No, the unusual thing about using the Per-Christian Foss expression is that the Right wants to use an instrument that the party has until now been fundamentally opposed, namely to withdraw the Supreme Court into the political drawdown and weaken the responsibility of the Storting to and must have on constitutional issues. The Constitution provides an opening for the Storting to ask the Supreme Court to settle a case in relation to the provisions of the Constitution. With the use that has been, we have found no pressing need to abolish this constitutional provision. There are, in essence, many provisions of the Constitution that may not be in daily use without their being proposed. The Supreme Court judge Finn Hiorthöj conducted a review 45 years ago of when this provision had been used, and he concluded that access to the request of the Court of Justice after § 83 in the past 150 years had been extremely sparingly used by the Stortinget. The last time it happened, was 13 November 1945 and concerned the question of when the newly elected landfill could meet in relation to the provisions of the Basic Law § 68. It was a rather special situation that was the starting point for asking for the opinion of the Supreme Court at that time. Nevertheless, the reaction of the then Grand President - that is, the Right-Man, Hambros - was that he viewed it as if the majority of the Supreme Court had sacrificed some of its legal authority and helped government out of a political crisis. Before that, a suggestion to use it was rejected in 1939, while it was used in 1933. So before that, we have to go back to 1845 to find out where the provision was used, and since 1945 it has not been in use. There has been no lack of suggestions to put it into service, on the part of several parties. One of the cases where it was proposed to involve the Supreme Court in the political debate was one of the cases of the Progress Party representative Jan Simonsen. The case concerned the prohibition that local television broadcasters could pass on satellite broadcasts. There are, as I said, several parties that, after 1945, have wanted to use the Supreme Court in the political dispute over individual matters, but never the Right. So now the legacy of Hambo is cleared. I don't know if it will make the lot more recognizable for its voters. When the Stortinget dealt with the law on Santa Claus in the last period, the Progress Party wanted to call upon the Supreme Court in the political draw. At that time, however, stood on the right hand side of the hambrove, reasonable line. As Foss also mentioned, the representative said Carsten Dybevik of the Right, who was the party spokesman in the case, among others. att ‘submitting questions as to the constitutionality of a legislative proposal would appear to be exceptional in the light of the Storting practice’. When we quote good right-wing points of view, it's a shame that right-wing even goes away from them, and that they now go away from this principleal point of view. I don't think anyone deserves to develop a practice in which the Storting abdicates in assessing the limits of the Constitutional Law, where the Supreme Court is drawn into the political debate, and thus also weakens the trust of the Supreme Court as an independent judicial body when it may later come into the situation that it will judge on a matter it has previously stated. We're going to hope that this populist deviation from a good constitutional principle will be a one-time case from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e444	There is no doubt that there is a rather special case The Stortinge treats today, which we have very rarely received for treatment in the sense that we are doing it today. As Svein Roald Hansen said, the last time Stortinget asked the Supreme Court for an opinion and got a majority in this room for it, in 1945. But also at the time, in an extraordinary situation, the proposal was controversial. Hambro was just quoted by Svein Roald Hansen, so I don't need to repeat it. The last time this was used in an ordinary procedure, it was back in 1933 - the time that it was linked to a matter of specific tariffs and mortgages that were not covered by the no partial charge, and a ban on giving retroactive effect. Then the Supreme Court answered no. Before that time, this paragraph has been used very rarely, and the background for it is quite obvious, namely that asking for the opinion of the Supreme Court on these kinds of questions could bind the Supreme Court when the case comes to ordinary judicial proceedings. That means you have to be very careful to distinguish the powers of the state. § 83 is an emergency solution, and it has been used as an emergency solution very few times, but should not be used in a matter of this nature. It has also been the position of the Right and the bourgeois parties until this day. Therefore, it is quite surprising that you choose to use § 83 in a case that is dealt with in the church committee, but that is likely to end up in the legal system. It's just following the public debate, you'll see that this seems pretty obvious. The fact that the Supreme Court should have given an opinion before a case, if any, comes to the court, will, of course, put the Supreme Court before a rather demanding situation. I am not in doubt that, as such, the Supreme Court would be able to handle such a situation, but to impose the Supreme Court in that situation is absolutely unnecessary. This is the position taken in almost all previous treatments. Not least, the Right has been the foremost spokesman for why this is not correct. The size itself sets a framework for the work you do. If it turns out that what the Storting does is not under the Constitution, it must be the court that decides this. It has been a guiding principle when we have dealt with this kind of matter before. One might be tempted to believe that the Right has promoted this proposal in confidence that it does not get a majority, and that the Right does it for that reason, almost like a marking question, because what the Government is doing is wrong. Let me say again: the matter itself is not dealt with in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I fully accept that it is possible to ask the questions you ask, namely whether this is in line with the Constitution. Yes, I fully accept that it is a relevant question, all the time the government pronounces itself as it does, and the government statement is formulated as it is. But we're going to assume a yes, and then it's going to be up to the judges to find out if this is not. I suppose-- let me also say that, and you can see from the legal basis of the government that the government is on safe ground, but accepts that the question can be asked. This means that the majority today will reject this proposal and that the proposal as such will not have a majority. This means that the procedure will continue to follow the ordinary downgrading procedure, and the case is well served. The matter as such will not be served either - it is completely independent of my political position on the content of the matter itself - that we are mixing the Supreme Court at this time. The basic starting point should actually be very careful to tread over, and you've been careful to tread over it. Therefore, it is very surprising that the Right and Christian People's Party chooses to withdraw § 83. My good colleague Svein Roald Hansen called this Right populism, and I think it's almost right to say it. This is a kind of populist rash, related to a political question. You disagree with the Government, and it's perfectly legitimate to disagree with it. But you have to be careful to include § 83, which right historically has been very careful about. Therefore, it is not without reason that when one goes into the annals of the Storting, one finds the best quotes to show caution by using § 83, from the Right's representatives, not from the representatives of other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e467	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e470	A while ago, a law on Santa Claus was passed - that is, a different matter from the one we are dealing with, because now it is the OVF that is the basis - and there were several who claimed that it could be possible that some of the decisions were contrary to the Basic Law. Later, the Supreme Court has declared a confession, and has found that at one point was the content and consequences of the legislative decisions that Øystein Djupedal was in favour of, contrary to the Constitution. Then I think it would have been natural that Djupedal was a little embarrassed that he had been involved in a law decision that was contrary to the Constitution. Then it would be natural, when there is a debate on this again, that Djupedal might avoid putting himself in the situation that he is reintroducing and taking a law decision that is unconstitutional. Why isn't Djupedal a little bit more humble and could think of just knowing this in advance, so that he might avoid voting for a law that can be unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e477	The rationale is quite obvious in what I said in my post, namely that you should be very careful about rocking the relationship between the state powers. It is a long parliamentary practice for the Storting itself to define its function, and if it turns out that there is someone out there who believes that this is not in line with the law, one has the opportunity to go to the judiciary, and in that way also to the Supreme Court. And you can do that in this case. Here we know that a case will be brought before the court. In this way, it would be unfortunate to obtain the opinion of the Supreme Court in advance of any proceedings before the Court. That's the principal point of view that this house has always had -- with very few exceptions -- and that's the position I still think is right. That means that I assume that the government is on a secure legal basis in what they do, but I accept that the question can be asked, and I also said that in my article. But it won't be us who have to define the reason for this. In that case it must be the legal entity that defines.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e482	There is reason, in these majority management times, to thank for the shyness and generosity that has been added to the opposition by at least accepting that we can ask questions. We thank you for that. As far as populism is concerned, I must say that the populism of this matter is on a completely different level. It is on the level that representatives from the largest government party in the election campaign expressed themselves boldly about the cheap sale of land on behalf of others, in a way that at that time obviously did not consider whether this was in line with the Constitution or any of them. Looking back at the debates that were then, there was no one who then raised that question from the government parties. So when the government parties now accept that the implementation of the regulation is obviously being postponed, I have the following questions to ask: why are the government parties not so loud as to say: Yes, well, we are on safe ground, and believe that this matter can be brought before the Supreme Court. We have time for that, even if it means maybe a month or two longer postponement. Are you so uncertain that you don't dare? [[The President clubs.]] I agree that it is extraordinary, as the Right has also previously justified, and I have said that it is exceptional, in line with what has been said earlier in terms of both prudence and the like from former Right-wing Representatives. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e491	The justification is exactly the same as I gave in my reply to the representative Hagen, namely that one should be extremely careful with, and it has been the Stortinget, to obtain the opinion of the Supreme Court in this type of ordinary proceedings. The last time it was used, as I said, was in 1945 in an extraordinary situation. Then it was used in 1933 related to mortgage debt, and before that it had not been used since 1845. The starting point for this has been a relatively broad consensus in the Storting that the Storting should be very careful about going into what is the Court’s later function. That's why you've been detained. My starting point again in this is that I accept that the question can be asked. I assume that the government is on a secure legal basis in what you do. If the judiciary is of a different opinion, the Supreme Court will in due course have the opportunity to say so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e497	I would like to repeat my question from instead to the representative Øystein Djupedal, and perhaps put it a little clearer. Doesn't Øystein Djupedal think that it was a little awkward to vote for a law that the Supreme Court later said was unconstitutional? Wouldn't Øystein Djupedal think it was a little awkward to do the same one more time, despite the fact that there are pretty clear warnings? That's the main question. The second question is, how can Øystein Djupedal say that the Government is on a secure legal basis, when there is in the attachment to the election a thorough statement from a reputable law firm, and well also from Professor Eivind Smith, with the opposite conclusion of the Government, as far as I have understood it? How, then, can you say that you are on a safe legal basis? It is probably more natural to say that the government believes it has a legal right to do so, but there is also doubt, as the Stortinget is asked to carefully evaluate the constitutional. This does not indicate that you are on safe ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e504	As you will see from the setting, there are several attachments. The Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice is what every government leans most upon in these kinds of questions. I assume that the Government is on a secure legal basis when they file cases for the Storting. I assume that any government is, no matter what colour the government has. If the Supreme Court in the next round turns out to have a different opinion - it can happen from time to time - then that's how the judiciary should work in a democracy. But that means, in good faith, that the bill you voted on in the Grand Duchy was in line with the Constitution. That's the way it's going to be. There may well be a new situation in which I or other representatives actually vote for something that later turns out to be contrary to the Constitution. Yes, then you have to change the law. That's what's the relationship between state powers. My starting point is just like I've said a number of times, but I can just repeat it, that ‘It is safe parliamentary practice that it is the responsibility of the Storting to assess whether proposals pending are within the framework of the Constitution’. That's what's on my mind. It is our responsibility to base this on. [[President clubs]] If it turns out this isn't right [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e516	That is not the case with the right-wing representatives who have previously spoken. There is no basis in this case, if you read in the law department's opinion, to say that you are on a secure legal basis. The law department says, among other things: whether this is in line with the Constitution or not depends on the purpose of this amendment. The purpose here is to take money from a fund and transfer it to the state fund, in violation of the fund's constitutional protection. That is not to say ‘on a secure legal basis’. Then the question of whether it would be wrong for the Supreme Court to comment on this before any trial. Well, if it were to be a very problematic matter for the majority parties, it had to be because it is assumed that in that case you would not follow the opinion of the Supreme Court if the Supreme Court were to conclude that the Government's amendment of the law is contrary to the Constitution. There will be legal proceedings. But if you follow the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court will also avoid any later cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e523	This post from Per-Kristian Foss is then in conflict with what has been the Right Position in these matters at all times. It is a little surprising that you then so clearly choose to distinguish between this particular case and what is the principle of this. I have been very careful to establish that I have not dealt with the case here as such, only in relation to Section 83, when the Storting should use Section 83 or not. I also accept that questions can be asked about this. It can probably also be done in other cases, but then there is another procedure, which is far safer, namely that we are making laws, and the justice system is judging. When a government -- it's completely independent of the government's color -- presents matters to the Stortinget, I assume that the government has done a natural job there and obtained the best legal advice, and that this is in line with the law you're going to administer. If it turns out that this isn't right, then it's going to be the courts that have to decide that this is not right. But I assume that any government is on a secure legal basis for what is presented to the Stortinget. It is the responsibility and duty of any government, and that also applies in this case. If it was later to prove that this was not correct, it would be the Supreme Court which in that case would say that the Stortinget was not on a secure legal basis. I would be sorry for that, but that would be the future--and not now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e534	It is unlikely that the alarm clocks from the legal environments ring as loud and clear as they do in this case. I think there's consensus, even though the representative Djupedal doesn't say it, that there's a great deal of legal doubt here. We also see that in the law department's statement. The representative, Djupedal, indicates that in the event this will be clarified afterwards by the ordinary legal process. We're familiar with how long it takes. It takes many years, and that means that we will be able to get a verdict in the Supreme Court that the Bill in Stortinget is illegal under the Constitution. But it's too late, isn't it? In this case, the information service fund has been validated by the IDD. The damage has happened. How will the representative, Djupedal, help to rectify it then?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e541	It's a hypothetical question, which I don't think it's right to comment on either. In a state of law, it is such that the legal heaviness actually slows down. It is for the sake of legal certainty for each individual citizen and the legal certainty of the decisions taken. This means that there is an opportunity to review three courts before a final decision is taken. If you want it, you go all the way to the Supreme Court. It'll take a long time. Yes, that's right, but it's also the legal state's security valve that you don't rush this through. Asking the Supreme Court for an opinion in such a political mindful -- of course also legally disputed -- as this is, will be stupid, precisely for the independence of the Supreme Court and the judiciary. That is what has been taken into account in previous treatments of § 83 - and now again. We do not treat the matter as such, but only the use of § 83. It's this detention unit The Storting has been showing all the times since 1945, and almost permanently since 1845. I cannot see that there are serious reasons why this case should be particularly classed as different from all the other times that Stortinget has had this up to treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e550	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e553	This has to a large extent become a debate on the use of Section 83 of the Constitution. It has not been used for a very long time. It is probably also a bit in the nature of the matter that the government parties feel the most eager to direct the use of a paragraph in the Basic Law that has been there for a long time unused, but that it must be fully permissible to use, although I understand that there is a basis for being sober with its use, that it should not be used in time and without time. But it should be remembered that it has been proposed to be used and voted down by a simple majority in the Chamber earlier. I think I'll tell you a little bit about the position of this paragraph. Djupedal in a way sets the principle of power distribution -- because that's what this really is about -- to some extent up against minority rights that are involved in and underline what the Constitution really is. In fact, the basic law is to be a basis for the rest of the law, and when a minority, of course, is put to the vote, it is in the nature of the matter, but it still gives a minority the opportunity to promote a proposal. I think maybe the founding fathers-- well, there were fathers-- who reduced this paragraph, have seen something that might be important to take care of after all, even though one should be very careful with its use. The issue is whether the Basic Law precludes the application of new Santa Claus instructions to the Information Society's fund. Basic law interpretation is not necessarily easy, especially when legal expertise is also opposed to each other as in this case. In this specific case, it comes in addition that the government has brought the matter before Stortinget - and I think it is important to stress this - at such a late stage that it would not be possible to have a proper procedure for a case with such far-reaching consequences. I owe praise to the President-in-Office, who has given a very factual and thorough introduction to the subject. But I also feel the urge to follow up and say that this is also a very important matter for the Christian People's Party. As far as it is possible to see, the question of the relationship between the Basic Law § 106 and the Santa Claus directive adopted last year is a disputed legal issue. The Christian People's Party believes that on the basis of the knowledge we have of the matter, there is very doubt about the Santa Claus directive and the subsequent amendments to the OVF Act are within the framework of § 106. It is already referred to Professor Eivind Smith's article in Law and Law No. 1 for 2008, in which, for his part, according to some justifications, he concludes with the following: ‘On this basis, it seems beyond doubt that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Fund of the Information Society would be outside the competence of the legislature under the Constitution § 106. There is no reason to interpret the basic law in such a way that the provisions on the competences of the Storting still prevail.» It is also shown to the points that come from the law firm Hjort and that go very strongly in the same direction. The law department has an opposite conclusion, but as we read the law department’s opinion, it also opens up so that the instructions can be unconstitutional. The law department says very clearly that Stortinget must be given the best possible basis to take a concrete view of the interpretation of the Basic Law § 106 and the present issue. The Christian People's Party cannot see that Stortinget has been provided with a sufficient basis to assess this thoroughly. The Government Parties stress in their comments that there is a safe parliamentary practice that it is the responsibility of the Stortinge to assess whether proposals pending consideration are within the framework of the Constitution. Fortunately, it is very rare that we get into situations like this, that there are so many questions about whether a bill and an instruction are in accordance with the Constitution. A constitutional provision shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority in that Chamber. However, a two-thirds majority does not need to be interpreted in retrospect when interpreting what the Constitution says. That's enough with a simple majority. In this specific case, more than one third disagree with the Government and Government parties. I would like to say that the government parties therefore assume a great responsibility. The information society's fund is to consider the Church's heritage. The implementation of the Landing Instructions means that the Fund’s values will be reduced by an estimated DKK 1–1.25 billion in addition to the deterioration resulting from a 2007 Supreme Court judgment. In addition, annual fasting fees/fixing income will be reduced by 20 to 25 million. kr. This means that the fund’s values are transferred from the fund to individuals at a price that in many cases will be far below market value. Some of those who have been so fortunate that they have attached to the land of the OVF, unlike many other landowners in the country, are granted a significant discount by the Government - the word "lotto win" has been used in this regard. This is, of course, a gain that can then be realised by a subsequent sale of the property. For this reason, I have calculated some examples of how this can turn out in different areas of the country. Now it's not this official number, so it's obviously hard to use them, but I want to make three arithmetic examples. The first is from a high-priced area in Trondheim, where it operates with a gain of more than 90 pst. if this instruction is applied instead of the current law on the fastening of land. In a similar medium - priced area in the East, there is a 93 pst win. And in a similar low-priced area in North Norway you operate with a gift element of well and well 80 pst. There are, of course, examples to include a certain reservation, because they are unofficial, but I think they point towards what we're talking about, namely a disproportionately large gain given by such a decision, which could not have been intentional, and which I think is very wise if the Storting takes the time to look at the constitutional legitimacy of. In this way, the Government takes values that the Norwegian Church has over time considered to be its heritage. With a pen stroke, the Government transfers values from the community and distributes them again to more or less random individuals. The consequence of this is that the values of the fund will be reduced, which in turn means that there will be less return for church purposes and activities to which it has previously been used. So the government's people and the government council say the Church shouldn't lose money on this, but such guarantees can't be given by the government. The Church's economy depends, as you know, on each state budget. On this basis, and with the reasons I have given, it is that the Christian People's Party participates in the unusual request of the Stortinget to avail itself of the opportunity available under the Basic Law § 83, and ask the Supreme Court to consider the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e594	I am somewhat surprised at the government position's argument in the present case. As far as I have understood both Svein Roald Hansen and Øystein Djupedal, they say that the reason why they do not want the Supreme Court to clarify the question of the constitutional protection contained in Section 106 to be applied is that the Supreme Court will in any case be able to obtain a specific case later on. Then the Supreme Court may have bound itself to a position. Thus, the condition for such a scenario is that the Supreme Court gives an opinion under Section 83 that this would be unconstitutional, but that the Stortinget will nevertheless adopt the amendment. It is then quite right that if the Stortinget adopts the amendment of the law, a specific matter will come up to the Supreme Court through the legal system. Should there be any problem that the Supreme Court maintains its position on the constitutional question when they get a specific case - they have already given an opinion to the Stortinget that it will be unconstitutional? Why would there come a case to the Supreme Court in the second round? Well, then Svein Roald Hansen and Øystein Djupedal are of the obvious opinion that the Stortinget won't care as if the Supreme Court's opinion or opinion. Is the respect for a consideration or advice from the Supreme Court according to § 83 of such a secondary importance for the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party that they simply say that even though the Supreme Court has made a reference under § 83, we do not care about it, however, we accept the amendment of the law? It can't be that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have the basic opinion that if the Supreme Court has given its advice in advance, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, and perhaps also the Center Party, will nevertheless adopt the change, because it is only that the Supreme Court gets a case in retrospect, which should be a problem. If the Supreme Court says that this is in accordance with the Constitution, there is also every reason to believe that this constitutional question will not come through the judiciary, because once the Supreme Court has clarified it, it is likely that the District Court and the Law of Law will also accept that it is not contrary to the Constitution. So I don't understand the argument from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. So they assume that any clarification from the Supreme Court that this is contrary to the Constitution will not be taken into account by the majority of the population, which are themselves. Such a negative view of the Supreme Court and the rule of law I had actually not dreamed that Svein Roald Hansen and Øystein Djupedal would be presenting here in the main hall, as they have done today. So also a little bit to the purely principal. In several cases now, the Government in its proposals to the Stortinget has strongly asked the Stortinget to consider the constitutional by what comes from the Government. I don't like this tendency of the Storting to take over the responsibility of the Supreme Court. It is the Supreme Court that, according to our constitution, decides whether or not something is contrary to the Constitution. What the Storting should be interested in, is the same thing as in any other context, trying to stay within the limits, they limit, for the Storting business that we have-- because we have some such constraints. Some conventions that have been ratified by Norway's collapse in the past, we are bound by. In many other matters, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party are quick to say that it is well possible to do so and so, but we can't because we have an international convention. It's an international convention that says mulla Krekar can't be sent home - an international convention we want to change in order to get permission to do what we think we already have the right to do. So conventions that prevent the Storting from doing things you might want to do, otherwise we hear a lot about the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Then we have the second constraint, which is the Constitution. These are certain matters a simple majority in Stortinget cannot decide. There are certain issues that require a two-thirds majority, where the proposals are submitted during the first three years of a majorisation period to be addressed in one of the first three years of the next majorisation period, i.e. constitutional changes. When the question is whether it's within the Storting's power to decide something by a simple majority, one would think that everyone in this room is trying to figure it out in advance, trying to make sure that you don't make the mistake again that the majority did when it came to the law of Santa Claus, at least at one point, where the Supreme Court has said that the decision was contrary to the Constitution. One would think that one was a little bit more humble and said that maybe we should figure it out, to have that attitude that then we're right after that. I understand that the Arbeiderpartiet and SV do not have the intention - although the Supreme Court has said this - to comply with it. I actually don't think they've thought through whether they'd comply with a Supreme Court decision. In that case, you had to implement what you wanted by amending the Constitution. When we have seen the resistance that has come from a great many people, the consideration of the lawyer company Hjort and the article of Eivind Smith, I do not understand that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left immediately agreed to the completely inviolable and correct method, namely to propose Section 106 of the Basic Law repealed - because then the correct procedure would be used. Then you would say straight out that here we want to transfer money to the state fund that the current constitution does not allow us, and change the Constitution and say that we do it anyway. Then you would have done it the right way, by changing the Basic Law, by removing Section 106. If it were to happen that the proposal today to have a opinion from the Supreme Court is being voted down, and that the legislative proposal presented by the Government will, however, be adopted at a later date, we will have a sort of vacuum situation in which I hope the Government will respect the constitutional possible protection for what you want to do, because once the instructions have possibly come into force and the first sales are carried out, they will probably be quickly disputed and brought to justice. Then I hope it will have suspensive effect at least, so that we do not experience that, for a three-year period, from the first case, based on the fact that the decision is non-constitutional, it is raised until it is decided in the Supreme Court - it may take a few years - you continue to sell so that, if the Supreme Court decides that the decision is unconstitutional, you have to convert several thousand sales. It would be very unwise and very unfortunate, especially when you know with open eyes that there are considerable opportunities for the Supreme Court to conclude at some point that this is contrary to the Basic Law § 106. I hope you do not blame any buyers of these property properties for the risk that they would have to convert the contract several years later, because it was unlawful on the part of the seller. I hope, therefore, that the heavy-wine way chosen by the government parties will be stopped, namely to use the right of way and the right of law rather than to have it decided in advance, so that at least thousands of people who have bought something that they have to change because it was an unconstitutional sale. I hope the government won't put itself in the trouble it would be if it were going to be the situation. Of course, participatively we could hope for it, because it would be very devastating for the current three government parties if they had such intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e613	When the red-green government joined -- we live in a time when memory gets shorter and shorter, so it might be worth remembering it -- it celebrated its own accession with a media event on the beach on Bygdøy, where three central members of this government came before the people and announced to the people that a million dollars had been used to buy a private property, which would in future be for the benefit of the community. It was suggested that this would continue to a large extent - as it has become silent about it. In return, the issue that is the starting point of today's debate represents the precisely mirrored principle. This government has proposed to implement one of the largest privatisation projects in Norwegian history, where the community's values are to be distributed - not to the citizens of this country, but to a random selection of citizens, who are to receive a gift check from the state. I noticed that both the representative Svein Roald Hansen and the representative Øystein Djupedal swung to the great heights of posts that were not close to touching the reality of the matter, but which were solely about formalia - and the history of the Right. It's almost touching. I understood the conclusion from both sides that § 83 of the Constitution should not have existed, because it is contrary to the principles of the Constitution supposedly to rest on. In that case, the two gentlemen have a joint responsibility when they have not proposed to remove the Basic Law § 83. Of course, the proposal put forward by the opposition parties is exceptional. Of course, it is special, but the special thing is the content of the case, namely that a Norwegian government for the framework will seriously distribute large parts of the community's property to randomly selected individuals. I have so far seen no attempt to give a reason why the Government believes this is sustainable compared to the Norwegian Constitution. Let me mention that this is not just about the interpretation of the Basic Law § 106 - it is actually also about something even more fundamental, namely the understanding of the Basic Law § 19, which states that: "The King shall guard against the use and management of State Property and Regalia on the most useful measure for the public service." Substantial imagination is required to argue that a random economic advantage to some of the country’s landowners is for the benefit of the ‘public service’ in this country. In fact, this is contrary to the most elementary of all legal principles, namely the requirement that citizens be treated in a non-discriminatory way. This is systematic discrimination against Norwegian citizens, without any attempt to explain why the Government intends to implement such an economic discrimination. Anyone who reads the laws of Norway will see that for the provision I quoted, § 19, there is a footnote that refers to Section 10 of the Liability Act that says that with fines or with a booklet of up to 2 years ‘shall be punished by a member of the Government who causes or contributes to the misuse of the State’s properties or other resources, or who otherwise shows inadequacy or negligence in his activities’. I can't understand anything else - but let me make it clear that I am a legal layman - than that the Santa Claus decree that the government has adopted through kgl. the resolution complies with all the requirements to establish that it is both insensible and negligent. Certainly it is extraordinary that the Stortinget asks for the help of the Supreme Court to clarify whether a bill can be said to be contrary to the Constitution or not. Then it is also extraordinary that a government has the courage to promote a bill six months later, and ask the Stortinget to agree to this within a couple of weeks when even the government's own legal experts, the Department of Justice's law department, leave it clear that there is particularly strong doubt as to whether this is compatible with Section 106 of the Constitution. It is, of course, possible for politicians, like drivers, to drive both on yellow light and towards red. It is incomprehensible to me that the government will put itself in such an impossible situation as it does with this procedure. First comes an instruction that is contrary to the law, then a proposal to amend the law, while not following the advice of the Ministry of Justice's law department, namely to provide the Stortinget with a solid basis for deciding on the constitutionality of the proposed law. It was pointed out in the reply card exchange instead that what has happened to this particular case, namely legislation on Santa Claus, should have intensified the care more than usual. The Supreme Court has already stated that a few years ago, the Stortinget was guilty of adopting legal provisions which are manifestly contrary to the Constitution. The fact that they intend to proceed with the adoption of a law that is clearly contrary to the Constitution is incomprehensible. As I understand the extraordinary proposal put forward by the opposition parties, it is an attempt at last little to raise the government a saving hand to avoid inviting its parties on the Stortinget to help put both government and greatness in an impossible situation. When the time comes for the Supreme Court to take a position on this in some form -- I'm sure I'm going to do that -- at least you shouldn't be able to tell the opposition in this room that you weren't warned. You were actually warned.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e651	I record that the only government council present sits safely behind one of the columns in the hall. I think I would also have preferred to do so if I were the Council of State in this government in this matter. It's a very special thing we're dealing with today. As head of the Church, Education and Research Committee, I would like to say a little bit about the history. We have been waiting for this matter since last autumn. Around Christmas we received a letter from the Church Department in the Ministry of Culture and the Church where we were told that the bill would not be presented before Christmas. Since then, we have generally not heard anything, until the proposition was presented on 15 May of this year, and to all the over-measures in a preliminary version. So many would argue that a preliminary version in so far does not matter as long as the realities of the proposition do not change in later versions. However, it nevertheless tells a story that the case is far from being processed or ready for presentation in Stortinget when it has to be submitted in a preliminary version of 15 May - more than half a year after the case was expected to reach Stortinget. That's exactly what makes this case very special. I note from this debate and from debates which have so far been held in the media since the proposition was made, that the government parties seem to believe that it is logical and reasonable that it is the opposition who must bear the risk of late submission of the proposition and that it is also the opposition who must accept an unreasonablely short period of time, which in no way provides the basis for dealing with the matter in the manner that must be done. In addition, of course, the government parties and the government have a great interest in getting the matter through in the Storting on this side of the summer. The government has already adopted an emptying directive, which was due to enter into force on 1 July of this year. There will be no such thing, but nevertheless Stortinget will have a relatively short treatment period. I just want to remind you that we, on the part of the Church, Education and Research Committee, are going to go a long way towards dealing with this matter, but that delivery, consultation and treatment will take place during a period when the Storting is not united. There's a lot to think about -- and we definitely do, too -- but it's a fact that this case is subject to extraordinary treatment. Then several speakers have been on the pulpit before me to tell me what they think about the opposition's proposals in this context. Svein Roald Hansen began by saying that the opposition ‘is trying to train and preferably prevent’ the government's policy. I cannot, with my best will, understand that asking for as good a basis as possible to make a decision on a matter that has far-reaching consequences can be seen as training or preventing the government's policy. Rather, on the contrary, the opposition shows that it takes the responsibility of the government not to take, namely to have the matter brought to light from all possible sides. The representative Svein Roald Hansen also says that this appears to be extraordinary. Yeah, it's extraordinary. It is exceptional to have a proposal for treatment so short before it is intended to be discontinued. It is exceptional that the Government does not provide the Storting with the necessary basis for making a decision. It is exceptional that the government parties do not wish to have the matter brought to their attention in retrospect. The representative of Øystein Djupedal could tell that the opposition promoted the proposal in confidence that it does not have a majority. On the contrary, I can inform the representative of Djupedal that it has been attempted to obtain a majority for the proposal, in the hope that it will be adopted, simply because the opposition parties believe that this is such a big and important matter that it needs to be thoroughly illuminated. I also record that this should be a populist expression, according to the representative, Mr Djupedal. There I will join the representative Foss, who could quite rightly in line exchange with the same Djupedal that it is the proposal of the government parties for a systematic redistribution of large values from the community to randomly lucky plotters who are the populist in this matter. If that's how the representative of Djupedal wants it, namely that the government is on a safe ground, it's a mystery to me that the government parties, including SV, are involved in a committee comment that says: ‘The Committee would stress that the relationship between the new Santa Claus directive and the Grundgesetz § 106 is a highly controversial issue.’ I also think that the resistance to asking the Supreme Court for a consideration in the matter is a bit strange. If, in fact, the Government is on such a safe and solid basis as it wants it to, you wouldn't have anything to fear--on the contrary, asking the Supreme Court for a consideration would be more or less a formality because the notion would nevertheless come out in a way that supported the Government's view. Several representatives have been concerned with the wide-ranging implications of this proposal. Firstly, the fund may lose NOK 1-1.25 billion as a result of lower redemption values. Secondly, the fund is going to lose 20-25 million. kr annually as a result of the downward adjustment of fastening charges. In my opinion it is quite unusual, but nevertheless very clear, when the Department of Justice in one of its opinions of 28 January this year says as follows: ‘The amount of the aid should, in the context of the amendment to Section 5 of Law No 7 June 1996. 33 on the Information Society's Fund provides the best possible basis for taking a concrete view on the interpretation of the Basic Law § 106 in relation to the present issue.» When the Government then does not provide this basis in the proposition, the Storting must seek to provide that basis in another way. Then there is just the possibility to ask the Supreme Court for a statement according to the Constitution § 83. This provision is rarely used. That's the good reason for that. But at the same time, it can be used. There is no prohibition on the use of the provision, nor has it been deleted as a result of non-use. It is an active provision which can be used in rare cases. In addition, when a majority government is involved, as the representative Lånke was also involved, it is clear that the Constitution § 83 will serve as a protection and an opportunity for the minority to bring up a case and get a view in an area where the Government does not provide the necessary basis. In my opinion, then, it is also important to ask the question: What is the point of the proposed amendment to the Law on Information Society Fund § 5, second paragraph, if it is not to be disposed of contrary to the first paragraph of the provision and contrary to the Basic Law § 106? If it was not the point to dispose of in breach of the first paragraph of Section 5 of the Act or of Section 106 of the Constitution, this amendment of the Law, which is now proposed, was completely unnecessary. Whether it is the instruction or whether it is the law that contravenes Section 106 of the Constitution, is really indifferent in this context. The point is that the government wants to get a warrant to dispose of it in violation of the law and contrary to the Constitution. How to get that house doesn't matter in this context. It is also important to stress that Section 106 of the Basic Law places restrictions on the disposal of the fund, completely independent of the ownership of the fund. As Stortinget has also been involved in a previous interpellation debate that I travelled last autumn, we are faced with two possible procedures regarding this proposal. If this is completely unproblematic, it would also be unproblematic to use ordinary legal proceedings under the Basic Law § 75 ff. However, if this is necessary to make a change to the Constitution, Section 112 of the Constitution must be used with the procedures resulting from it. It is clear that it has great significance for the possibility of getting through a bill for a government. It also has a significant impact on Storting's handling of this matter. Now, when we are faced with what is an extensive one-sided favour of landowners, it is clear that it is outside what is perceived as the fund's purpose under the Basic Law § 106. If it had been within, the amendment of the law would have been completely unnecessary. So it's outside both the first paragraph of Section 5 of the Act and the Basic Law § 106. It also has the consequence that the fund is placed significantly worse than other landowners. If it had even been that you should only follow the normal rules, i.e. that the Information Service's fund should be obliged to redeem from normal rules and should be obliged to adjust the fixation fee in line with the normal rules of the Law on Landing, the question had been quite different. So here you have to make sure that the Information Society's fund and some other landowners - but they have very few plots in this context - are obliged to redeem at a lower amount than the other landowners do. They shall also be obliged to downgrade market rentals, which cause them to lose large values. That's for up to several of us a mystery why this is going to happen. Not least there is a mystery why the government parties and the government do not want to participate in asking the Supreme Court for a consideration in this matter. I believe, like several others, that this matter is likely to be brought to justice. It is a paradox that representatives of the government parties are so sure that the matter is brought before the court. If this is a completely unproblematic case where the government is on a secure legal basis, it would be completely unnecessary to bring this case to justice. Anyway, I think that's going to happen. I think, like many others, that it would make sense for the Storting to take the time and actually evaluate in advance how the matter is related to the Constitution, instead of pulling out both fortifications and fortifications - and Stortinget - through a long trial in the Supreme Court, where one finds that the instructions and the law change are contrary to the Constitution § 106.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e698	First a little bit to the content of the matter. We felt that this government first wanted to use funds to restore old church buildings. Then we felt that this government wanted to change the law on the land, so that those who have land attached to the OVF get their plots out more fairly than the others do - that is, that the government provides a significant discount from the community and to some selected ones. Then we're asked questions about us wanting to train the government's desire to be generous on behalf of others. Then is my message: Be generous, but spend your own money. Do not take away from local child and youth work, do not take from the refurbishment of preschool homes - that is, from the community - and give to some private ones. So a little bit to what the matter applies today. We have a clear political disagreement as to whether this is right or not to do so, as to how this fund should be used. But we have a responsibility as individual representatives in this room, in this big deal, to make sure that what we do is right by our own laws, and that it is, in particular, right under the Constitution. I believe that when the Legal Department in the Ministry of Justice gives us a big job of checking and evaluating the relationship with the Constitution, it is not as clear as any of the government's representatives in the Chamber today. What we see is that there are quite different legal conclusions in this case, from what the government has come up with, and what has come from reputable law firms, which concludes, not with doubt and with the jurisprudence one after having entered this room has learned that lawyers use - if you have a lawyer to speak, it is ‘on one side’ and ‘on the other side’ and ‘on the third side’ and ‘whisomatte’. I want to quote the conclusion of the law firm Hjort, which is a reputable law firm: ‘On the basis of a sound legal assessment, there can be no doubt that the Landing Instructions are contrary to the Basic Law § 106 and that they cannot therefore be implemented without a Constitutional Decision under the Constitutional Act § 112.’ It can't be any clearer. We don't want to deprive the government of the right to use its majority power to push this through. But we believe that the government must do it right. When the government has a majority to run through its affairs by simple majority, in process, extra caution should be exercised when it comes to not overruning, you should do it in the right way. We, as several speakers have mentioned, have had a poor time to deal with the matter - the matter should almost have been settled before it was presented - and this is a major legal matter to address. It is okay to disagree on the matter, but we should have done this in a way that had served the case, no matter what one believes about how this fund should be used. What about the Center Party in this case? Of course, this will also have transfer value for other landowners and landowners. It will put a pressure on the private market, create an enormous pressure on how to do this. I note that until now in the debate, the member of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and the parliamentary leader of the Central Party have not said a word about how they deal with this matter. It must be allowed to ask if a person does not believe that it is in their best interest to know what the Central Party believes about this matter. Where did the Center Party defend local ownership? I think it's sad when we have situations like today, where we as individual representatives from the opposition are trying to carry out the mission we're assigned to, namely to act in accordance with our own laws and, in particular, with the Constitution, but are stamped as someone who wants to train, being branded populists. We want to take proper responsibility. We want to have the basis we need to say how we should deal with this matter. I also want to remind you of the position of Prime Minister Jagland showing words at each of these great openings, about how a majority government must show extra humility and caution in overcoming minorities in matters. Then why do we go to such a serious step as asking for the Supreme Court's assessment? Yeah, because we're per. Today, a majority government is overrun by a process that does not take the consequences of its political disagreement and does so correctly and amends the Constitution before doing so, or receives an assessment of whether this is correct or not. They want to overrun this because of an election vow and a Soria Moria that I would like right now was much, much further into the distance than what we'll see the outlines of after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e729	Now the debate through the last speakers has focused on the content of the case. There's a debate that we're coming back to in the fall, so I realize that they're now out and, to put it another way, they're running the argument. There is a debate to be held when the Church, Education and Research Committee presents its case. When Dagrun Eriksen says that you want to get the Supreme Court's judgment to be on a safe ground, it does not seem that you are particularly in doubt that the government here is proposing something that is contrary to the Constitution. Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide also sounded very safe, and you quote the lawyer company Hjort, who says that there is no doubt. So while a law firm says that there is no doubt, the Department of Justice says otherwise. It illustrates that the roads of the juxtaposition are unanswerable. It again brings me to the post from Carl I. Hagen, who had a reasoning I don't know all about. He believed that the reason we wouldn't agree to ask for the prior assessment of the Supreme Court was that we were going to run this through no matter what the Supreme Court said. Now I am not sure whether the Supreme Court in such a case would necessarily have come with a completely bastant, clear assessment or recommendation. It could be a minority and a majority, it could be a little bit on one side and a little bit on the other. But I have to say that I consider it rather unimaginable that the government would stand on the proposal if the Supreme Court had made a quite clear statement that this was not within the framework of the Constitution. I consider it unmistakable that it would be adopted against such a recommendation. What could happen was that you got an opinion that was a little bit on the one hand and a little on the other, but that it was inside, that is, in line with the law department's assessments, and then there was a specific case. This does not mean that the specific case could not be assessed differently in the Supreme Court. So I think that in the case of this dream Hagen told me about -- what he didn't dream about -- I can reassure Hagen that so mad is probably not the world. So here I think he fantasized a little bit-- and at least not in line with what has been my assessments. What is at the heart of the matter we are dealing with today is whether we should go away from something that a large majority here in the Chamber has failed to do since 1945 - to draw the Supreme Court into a political debate. The debate on whether this is within or outside the framework of the Constitution will be brought back on the basis of the nomination of the Church, Education and Research Committee. That's when we're going to discuss the reality of that part of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e744	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e747	The representative of Svein Roald Hansen regrets that the content of the case is being handled, that one is committed to discussing the content itself, and that it is obvious that one should discuss only the principle of using Section 83 of the Basic Law or not. I must then be allowed to ask a question to the representative Hansen. Does the representative of Hansen really think that it does not matter what content it is about when one goes to the step, which most here characterises as an extraordinary, using Section 83 of the Constitution and asking the Supreme Court for a consideration? Is it the fact that here we are going to legalize the possibility of admitting random parties around Norway a discount on their partyrooms at the expense of the community, in any case in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e752	I have not intended to complain about practicing the argument for the autumn debate. I just found that the debate has gone away from the basis of the vote, which is the question of whether we should ask for a preliminary assessment by the Supreme Court. That's what we have the basis to discuss in this case. Our view, then, is that this case is not of such an extraordinary nature that something that was practice in the 1800s should be resumed, namely to ask the Supreme Court to consider various legislative proposals. This is something for which the Storting itself must take responsibility, and it is to be done in the debate to the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e757	First of all, if the proposal is adopted today, there will be no debate until the Supreme Court has given its consideration. I do not want the decision of the Storting to be taken later today. There is still hope that someone who listens to the debate will realize that there may be a need to ask the Supreme Court for a consideration. Svein Roald Hansen says that we are pulling the Supreme Court into the political debate. Where did he get that? The political debate is whether it is desirable and reasonable for the Information Society to sell its celebrations at a low price, or whether it is not desirable to do so. That is the political debate. In the legal debate, it is the Supreme Court that has the final word, not the Storting. It is the Supreme Court who has the final word in whether this is within what the Grand Duchy can grasp by simple majority. Where does Svein Roald Hansen have it from that we withdraw the Supreme Court into the debate whether it is desirable and reasonable or not? For that is the political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e764	We can'split hairs', as they say in English, about the concept of legal and political. But calling on the Supreme Court in this assessment, I believe, is calling for the help of the Supreme Court in a debate that, at my discretion, is political, even though politics also has legal aspects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e769	The representative Hansen states that it is the task of Stortingen to interpret the Constitution. We agree on that. But it's the government's duty, I would have been tempted to say damned duty, to make sure that the Storting gets the basis to do so. In this case, even the government's own expert body, the law department, has gone to the spectacular step of lifting the index finger and saying that the government must ensure that the Storting gets such a basis. The Stortinget has not received such a basis. The representative Hansen went on to say that the roads of the june are unanswerable. In this case, they are not unanswerable at all. The law department says this is an extremely questionable case; otherwise it cannot oblige the government to provide the Stortinget with a proper basis for assessing the constitutionality. While all the other legal bodies say it's an obvious case. And what's obvious is that you're acting in violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e776	Whether Stortinget has sufficient grounds for deciding on this matter, I assume that it will be part of the assessment to be carried out in the Church, Education and Research Committee. It is the person who is going to deal with the legislative proposal, and then it is going into Odelsting for consideration. Then we'll have to take that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e781	Let me follow up the question from Inge Wage. I would quote what the Law Department has said in a letter of 28 January 2008: ‘The amount of the aid should, in the context of the amendment to Section 5 of the Law of 7 June 1996 No. 33 on the Information Society's Fund provides the best possible basis for taking a concrete view on the interpretation of the Basic Law § 106 in relation to the present issue.» So the law department says that the Storting should have the best possible basis. Does Svein Roald Hansen believe that the basis of the odelstingsproposition, which is largely the representation of the views of the law department and not particularly of others, is the best possible basis, which is sound, so that the Storting could settle this matter within three weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e791	What's the best basis, also has something to do with the eyes that see. But since the Government has promoted that bill, at least in the government's view, there is a sufficient basis for the Storting to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e797	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e800	It is said that the one waiting for something good is not waiting in vain. But anyone who waits for something good in the form of a proposition from the Government may be in danger of waiting very long at least. The size has been waiting a long time for Ot.prp. No 60, and I assume that the reason why the waiting time has been long is that this has been a complicated matter for the government, and that the government has needed time to conclude with what they have concluded. Now that the proposition has been made, the main content, as the representative Hagen referred to in the reply code exchange now, is a replication of the law department's consideration. I have not been a great representative for many years, but I think this debate is quite remarkable. We sit in the country's legislative assembly and discuss whether we should ask the Supreme Court for a statement relating to a matter that everyone agrees with lies in the border country up against the provisions of the Constitution. I assume that we agree that Stortinget and the representatives of Stortinget have an obligation to deal with the Constitutional Framework, regardless of which notes were written down on Soria Moria or elsewhere. There is no case in a very long time when the legal alarm clocks have called as loud and clear and clear as in this case. There's a lot of legal disagreement. In addition, when there is a peculiar experience, namely that the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs specifically asks the Stortinget to assess the relationship with the Basic Law relating to a bill, I have to ask: When did that happen last? Without me trampling too much on the Law Department, this can almost seem as if there is a small cry for help for something that might be a kind of political influence on the Law Department's statements, especially when you see this in the light of what kind of statements come from others. The law firm Hjort has been referred to several times here, but the conclusion is so clear that it is rare in legal environments to get that kind of clear conclusion. These include: «no doubt» that the instructions are contrary to the Constitution § 106. Professor Dr. Juris Eivind Smith has written an article in which he writes, among other things. that it is: ‘higher than doubt that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Fund of the Information Society will be outside the competence of the legislature under the Constitution § 106’. I would think that we, as representatives in this room, have some humility towards that kind of statement from the competent legal level, and that at least it would make us think carefully before we make decisions that there is a great deal of doubt about whether it is within the Constitution. The representative of Djupedal suggested in his speech that it was populist to ask for the opinion of the Supreme Court in such a kind of case. What was the starting point, and it has also been the starting point for Svein Roald Hansen's contributions, is that this is a political disagreement where the opposition disagrees with the Government. But I think that's underestimating the nature of this case. This case has a framework that is far more serious and dramatic than that. We can face a situation where a majority government is forcing a change in law to force through an instruction they think they are reasonably likely to understand themselves at least in violation of the Constitution. It is a kind of corridor policy that not only undermines the Constitution, but also undermines the credibility and trust of this house. That is why the matter we are dealing with today is very serious. I think it is very close to disclaimer when some representatives from this pulpit point out that this may be the subject of ordinary legal proceedings after the Stortinget has taken its decision. It can. If we take an ordinary course of action, it shall be in the field of District Court, Lawyers' Court and Supreme Court, with costs in the million class and with a time-use of several years. Then there will be a situation where the Supreme Court may conclude that the decision taken by the Stortinget in the autumn would be contrary to the Constitution. And then no one will predict what kind of impact it will have on the real estate turnover that has occurred in that period. There's reason to suspect that one of the government parties puts the words of Soria Moria above the Constitution, and it's with respect to reporting something that we shouldn't be very proud of. I then also understand that the representative Hansen uses the concept that we are moving the Supreme Court into the political dispute. The only way that the Supreme Court can be dragged into the political dispute is that - as the representative Djupedal also mentioned in his statement - it becomes a matter, and that the Supreme Court should be compromised because they have given an opinion to the Grand Duchy in advance of dealing with a specific matter. The only way it can be a problem is that this house does not follow the advice of the Supreme Court. We heard the representative Hansen exclude that - it would be excluded that a majority government did not follow the advice of the Supreme Court. Then why are we afraid to hear the advice of the Supreme Court in advance, when the problem that the representative Djupedal thought was the main reason for not being able to send it to the Supreme Court, is not a relevant issue under the Governmental Labour Party? Fortunately, the Basic Law § 83 is very rarely used. It is simply because we are blessed with a responsible greatness that rarely puts the Basic Law framework to the test. However, it is true that the Stortinget puts the Constitution to the test, such as: in this case. In that case, it should not be used as an argument against receiving a statement from the Supreme Court that previous accumulation has been so responsible that there has been no need for that kind of observation. I also notice that the press leg is slippery today--it's empty. It's a little strange, because the case we're dealing with is a special case, and it's going to visit the Storting many, many times after the club has fallen today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e829	It is with growing amazement that I experience the figures of the Government and the position in this debate. So this is a case that's been going on for a lot of years. In many places it has been discussed violently, and the Stortinget was promised a case about the Information Service's fund, which has taken time, took time and took time. What is it that has been so difficult in the Ministry of Justice, and that has done that matter, rather than that we should get it before Christmas, and then just after Christmas, came so late? I don't know, but at least I can speculate a little bit. The political desire of the department has been clear, and it has been clear all along, there has been no disagreement. The only reason it may have taken time is that the Law Department has had significant counter-representations, that the Law Department officials have actually argued against and perhaps advised the Government to go into the way it has chosen to go. The law department is not an independent body. The law department is subject to the instructions of Minister of Justice Storberg, and it is clear that for an official to say that I cannot sign it and that is to go very far. In fact, it may indicate that a sort of compromise has been reached between the people who work in the Law Department and who would like to maintain some of their legal integrity, and the Council of State and the Department to move over the difficult problem, whether this is in accordance with the Constitution or not, to the Stortinget. What is stated in the letter from the Law Department to Stortinget on 28 January is among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The debate both before and after our opinion on 12 January 2006 shows that there have been and have been shared opinions on the protection afforded by the Basic Law § 106 against the fact that when managing the wealth of the Information Society’s fund, consideration is also taken of considerations other than those given special protection in the provision. In connection with the amendment to Section 5 of Law No. 7 June 1996 33 on the Information Society's Fund provides the best possible basis for taking a concrete view on the interpretation of the Basic Law § 106 in relation to the present issue.» What is really said here is that the law department does not want to say that it complies with the Constitution. It leaves it to Stortinget, and then you have to consider several things about the government's responsibilities. In the representative of Inge Wohnning, he referred to Section 10 of the Liability Act, that it is possible to punish those state councils that ‘show indifference or negligence in their activities’ with imprisonment or fines. I would also like to mention Section 7 of the Liability Act. It sounds like this: ‘In the case of action brought before the Court of Justice, the person responsible may be required to pay compensation for the damage caused.’;» I understand that Svein Roald Hansen and Øystein Djupedal and their parties are very concerned about the Supreme Court, that we should not give High Court a mission that they might have problems with in the second round. In other words, you assume that there's going to be another round anyway. If you don't assume that, it's not difficult, because then you get the Supreme Court decision this year, or at least quickly, instead of in three or four years, and then you've saved yourself a lot of trouble in the meantime. Now the law is so subtle that it is the magnificence representatives who must also take care of the interests of their members of government, and perhaps you should show some care to the members of the Government, as you would like to show to the Supreme Court. If it were to happen that the bulk of the population is on the government's policy, and if what the law firm Hjort and Professor Smith consider to be constitutional legislative changes, some property will be sold, and the state fund, the Information Society's fund, will suffer significant losses. Then there is a case for the judiciary, and let's say that the Supreme Court rejects the claim that this has been unconstitutional. Then, of course, there are no problems for Svein Roald Hansen and Øystein Djupedal - they cannot be punished. You can't do anything else with them, either, if they're still bigpox representatives. But for the members of the Government and those who are directly responsible, if they are not in government - if they are in government, you can bring them in by mistrust - then the liability law is in place. As the current members of the Government, who are behind these decisions, are at risk and implement this which is unconstitutional - if, in the meantime, the Treasury has lost time - to be held responsible for the court under both § 7 and § 10 of the Liability Act, and there may be significant financial losses for government members in this area. So I think you should consider not showing some concern for the members of the Government by not putting them in a situation where they can actually be held responsible for what is proposed and which many claim is very strongly contrary to Section 106 of the Constitution. Then it also becomes interesting to follow the further course of the case, if one does not do what is most sensible, namely to adopt the proposal today, and then I want to make some theoretical views about different roles - formal and informal. As has been pointed out in other contexts, we have seen trends in increasing contact between the government parties' groups in the Stortinget and the committees and departments and the departments' offices. I think it would be sad if in real real life it became so that it is the Department of Justice that first writes the government's legal considerations, and then it might be the same people who have written what the government thinks, who are helpful to committee members in this house with what should stand in the position. For it should be stated in the setting that the ‘Size should be in connection with the change in Section 5 of the Act’, etc. decide on the interpretation of the Constitution. I hope, at least, that it is not the case, as someone might think, that the Ministry of Justice's law department is used as an adviser for the government fraction of the church, education and research committee when comments are to be made on the constitutional. Because then, in reality, the entire power of this society has been transferred to the partially nameless people of the Law Department, while everyone else only trusts that they know best. I hope it doesn't work this way. When the government says that the Storting has to decide on the Constitutional Question here, I would say that it is very rare for the Government to say that the Storting must decide whether this is in accordance with the Constitution. And we need to have good information. There is also a question of whether the odelstningsproposition to be dealt with by the Church, Education and Research Committee fills the information obligation in its entirety. You yourself stress the need for the Storting to have the best possible basis, and then you basically just reflect the views of your own law department and not everything else. It's briefly mentioned, but it's obviously not enough. It was also said that it was expected that the Storing Committee would go into this thoroughly, but it has been forgotten that it was thought that the Committee would have no more than a week or two on it. But what can a committee do? You have the proposition, and then different law firms and maybe some legal professors can all come up with their ideas. But there were our ancestors at Eidsvoll very wise: if the Stortinge as a legislative assembly is in doubt, then you have the opportunity to ask for advice from the Supreme Court, which everyone knows has the last word. When the Stortinget is in doubt, you should not only receive advice from professors and well-paid lawyers, who may have other reasons to take than legal, you can ask Supreme Court. And then it makes no sense that in this case you actually do not, especially when Svein Roald Hansen has made it quite clear that if there was a clear answer from the Supreme Court, he thought it was unthinkable that it was not followed. The risks that governments take by maintaining their proposals, they take with their very open eyes. They are carefully warned by a number of teams, and at least it is not possible for any government council later, possibly in the judiciary, where they themselves are accused, to say that they did not know, that they did not understand, that they did not understand. They are warned, and have no such reasons to be able to refer when possible in three to four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e854	Just some closing comments from my side, since several have been involved in both the signed and Svein Roald Hansen's posts, and our position - as it is well explained - since many from the opposition disagree with them. Let me take some premises that form the basis for this debate. This is a debate on the Constitution § 83. In order to reply to the representative, who thought it was almost alarming that we did not go into the reality of the matter: we have been very careful about it. It is with good advice that we have not really gone into the matter. That case was sent to the church, education and research committee for proceedings there. We will consider whether § 83 should be applied. That is why we have been very careful not to go into a procedure which can in any way be seen as pre-empting the treatment to be carried out in the Church, Education and Research Committee and for which I understand from the Committee's chair that a run has now been made. Adjustments are to be made early in the autumn. It's a race that we on the Control and Constitutional Committee are not part of. We have assessed § 83, and § 83 alone. This view has also been the view of the majority of the Storting for 75 years, by a solid majority, in all parties. One exception is the Progress Party, because the Progress Party has wanted to use § 83 more than others, even in ordinary proceedings. The situation in 1945 was quite special. And to those who think that we should have removed Section 83 or proposed it as a consequence of not using it in this case, I would say that I do not have any difficulty in imagining that Section 83 can be used in very special situations. The situation in 1945 was quite special. Even Hambro accepted the use of the paragraph at that time, but was careful to stress that this did not have to happen too often. But that helped the Storting out of a constitutionally difficult situation. He was right about that. But what we're talking about here is an ordinary procedure for an ordinary case, which can of course be in the frontier country of the Constitution, and there we have said nothing but that the Government has submitted a bill that we of course require is in line with the law. That means that we then see how this case can be cleared up, and that is how we have tried to do it. That many others want the debate to be about something else, that's what I fully accept, that's politics, but that's not what we're now discussing, that's the legal content. Carl Joachim Hambro said the following in 1939 - and it can actually sum up a lot of what is our position, and in a normal situation will be both Per-Kristian Foss’, Inge Wage and others’ position: ‘Our Constitution and all our political developments are based on the fact that the Grand Duchy is sovereignly competent to settle constitutional matters and that it is solely the legal substance of the individual decisions of the Grand Duchy which may be brought before the courts in the event’. It was Hambro's opinion, and it's been the Big One's opinion for 75 whole years, since this decision in 1933. I understand that many people would think that this case is special, but then you should think about how many times the Storting has had debates that have been special, things that have been special, because it concerns many people. It's almost every week. I have humility for many people to believe that this matter is special, but you have to be extremely careful to include Section 83. It was then decided to do so in this case, on the grounds that a preliminary opinion from the Supreme Court could help to resolve this matter. Again, there's no reason to believe it. There is no reason to believe that the Supreme Court will make such a clear statement that both landowners and landowners - in this case the Information Society's fund - will accept this and not go further in the legal system. There is no reason to believe that an opinion from the Supreme Court might have to be perceived by all the implicators as the unmistakably correct answer in this case. There is at least no reason to believe it, for the Supreme Court's judge is very rarely of such a nature that all the debate thus subverts. The principle we've been basing on, and which we're basing, and which Per-Kristian Foss, Inge Wohnung and other politicians have been basing, is that it's up to the judiciary to judge from the decision of the Storting. Almost every decision we make in the Stortinget can go to court. We are fully in agreement with that, and it is the right of any citizen or anyone else to go to the court to the extent that you disagree with anything. It can happen, it happens all the time, and it will probably happen in this case as well. At least there's reason to believe it. If you read newspapers, you can see that there are many people who believe that this case has to be brought before the courts, later the law of the team, and it will probably get its final decision in the Supreme Court - if it gets that far. This means that when we now oppose the use of § 83, it is not the case as mentioned here. In the case as such, I fully accept that questions can be asked, and it will be dealt with early in the autumn, I understand, by the Church, Education and Research Committee. Then there will be a basis for taking the entire debate on the content of the matter as such, and therefore we have been very careful now to confine ourselves to the legal basis around § 83 and why we believe what we mean. I also think-- let me just say that-- many people would say that it's the Storting that makes a decision today, and they know what they're doing, and we're kind of responsible for this. Yes, any decision the Stortinget makes, of course we, who are behind the decision, are responsible for. It would really just be missing--as if it were something new! Let me just end by saying, because Carl I. Hagen had a longer harange against the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice, that our office is initially party-politically neutral. They serve all masters, as they have served previous governments, and they now serve our government. To suggest that the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice is taking dictates from a politician and is changing the conclusion in the light of it, I think is a very careless suggestion from a representative with a long experience who can be better. At the moment we politicise our office, we get a position that many other countries have. And we don't deserve that. The Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice, as the ministry in all departments - I think everyone who has been in the Council of State position, also knows - is not a loyal, evocative office that says yes and amen to the Council of State no matter what you say - fortunately not! I also have many examples of the Law Department going against a number of things that I wanted to promote when I was the Council of State, and I think everyone has experienced the same thing. Let me just say that the law department's opinions are, of course, behind the law department. It is done on a legal basis, not on a political basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e881	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e884	The strange thing about this case is that we get a long process in the department prior to a presentation to the Stortinget, a process on which the Stortinget has no impact. We then get a proposition for the Storting very late, and very much later than what was foreseen from the Government, and the government parties are trying at the top of the whole thing to get through a treatment in the shortest possible time, i.e. between May 15th and June 20th. It's true, as Djupedal's representative says, that Hambro says that Stortinget is sovereign. But then my question about the representative Djupedal has misunderstood the provision in section 83, because it has always been provided that the opinion of the Supreme Court in the matter should be of an advisory nature. So we're not asking in any way the Supreme Court to take the decision for us or make the decision on behalf of the Stortinget, we're simply asking for a advice in this case where the government parties and the government have not done their job of presenting to the Storting a matter on which to make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e891	First I have to say that I do not know why this matter has come to Stortinget as late as it has. I am absolutely convinced that the government has worked as quickly as it has been possible at all, and that there are reasons why the matter has been delayed. As I said, I don't know about that, and I can agree with the representative's statements that it would have been desirable that the matter had come before. Let me just underline that. But as I said, I am not in government and am not responsible for that part of it, nor do I know why the matter has come so late. But I record that the Church, Education and Research Committee is subject to a responsible procedure by also using harvest months, and I think that is a wise approach. I agree that finalising this matter in the short weeks we have reached summer would be too fast. Until that matter is too big, too complex, and one will also need to consult and obtain opinions from the outside. So I fully agree with that during and the treatment that the church, education and research committee has used on the basis of the matter itself, and I will assume, without knowing the matter, that there will be a broad majority in the committee that is certainly behind that procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e898	It is nice to be in debate with the representative Djupedal again. But in his speech he was injured to say that there was no reason to believe that the Supreme Court would bring a clear advice to the Grand Duchy if one were to decide to ask for a petition from the Supreme Court. We are already aware that the Law Department has concluded - they have asked the Stortinget to assess the issue specifically - but also the Law firm Hjort and various legal professors have been able to conclude whether the proposal is within or outside the Constitution. What is it that makes the representative of Djupedal so little trust in the Supreme Court that he believes that they will not be able to do the same thing as both the Law Department and the Law firm Hjort have done before?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e905	Let me just stress that I have great confidence in the Supreme Court. This is a complex matter, and regardless of what political conclusion may be reached, it is said that legally this is a complex matter. I record that both Smith and the law firm Hjort are very clear in their conclusions, but I also record in the same way that the government's legal apparatus, at the Law Department, is of a different opinion. This means that there is no unambiguous answer to what is right, and therefore the legal process is likely to show that there will be different views on this in the future. I'm just saying, not on this matter alone, but on the basis of long political seagoing times, that the Supreme Court's opinions are generally below those of hers, and would like to have a slightly conciliatory view and a little bit on both sides. That means that my statement is not to understand in any other way than that it won't necessarily be that you get an answer, with two lines below, from the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e910	The representative, Djupedal, has established at least one thing, and that is that Section 83 of the Constitution should remain standing. There is no current policy for SV to propose any change to it. At the same time, he takes the former Right-Representative Hambro to income in order that there is a very special case to use this paragraph. Now I want to ask: what makes this case not special enough when several competent Supreme Court lawyers, with the lawyer company Hjort at the head, repeatedly state that this is unconstitutional? The possibility of liability under the Liability Act is therefore presented here. With the risks involved in the case - Djupedal himself stresses that this case is difficult, and that there are different views against each other - would it not be reasonable to conclude that this is such a special matter that we need to clarify this now, before we enter into a debate on the actual proposition? Otherwise you're going to do it too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e917	I accept that it is possible to mean it, but I do not mean it. And what I mean, I mean, like all the big stuff we've had since 1933. In 1945 it was thought that there was a special situation, and it was: When will the Greatness be called after the war? But in ordinary proceedings this has not been used for 75 years, since 1933. Just think: how many decisions has the Storting not made since 1933 that have been perceived as special, or as having perhaps been in a frontier country against the Constitution? There's a lot of them. And the review we have received from the investigation service shows that the matter has been up for debate many times, about the EEA agreement, about Santa Claus - now I don't remember all the issues. So it has often been part of the public vocabulary, but since 1933 the Stortinget has never concluded using § 83, with the exception of the very special situation in spring 1945. Therefore, I believe that this matter in this way is not more special - although I accept that it is special - than all the other matters in which the Stortinget has said no, we do not use § 83.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e930	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e933	The representative, Djupedal, has tried to teach me what is right-wing policy. After almost 28 years at Stortinget, I actually think that I reserve the right to do it myself. I would also like to say to follow the words of Mr. Hambro to be “careful” - as he is quoted here - to use the Basic Law’s access to ask the Supreme Court for advice: to do it for the first time in 75 years must be said to be careful. When characterised as populism, the concepts have lost their content. Then the representatives of the government parties here will not go in and discuss the reality of the matter and the proceedings. But it is necessary to justify such an extraordinary procedure as to ask the Supreme Court. Because I agree, as I said in my first post, as the rapporteur, that it is extraordinary to ask the Supreme Court for an opinion. First of all, this is justified by the reality of the matter: the distribution of citizens with the state's money and the taking of money from a fund contrary to the purpose of the fund, which is enshrined in the Constitution, we consider to be extraordinary and very special. The second concerns the proceedings: first, a regulation that is contrary to the law, then a legislative amendment that legislates the regulation, and then at the top of the whole of a procedure where the Legal Department goes to the extraordinary step of requiring the Government to ensure that the Storting is given «a best basis for taking a concrete view on the interpretation of the Basic Law § 106 in relation to the present issue». It's also extraordinary. No one has justified the fact that it has been common for the Law Department to give such instructions for government and mass destruction. So it has to be said to be within the framework of the majority that it's really the basis, that it's extraordinary when the Law Department says that this has to decide the Biggest. There will often be disagreement between lawyers, but let me say it like this: I put quite strong emphasis on what an independent professor, Eivind Smith, informs. He has written a constitutional interpretation in Law and Court No. 1 for 2008 without being ordered by anyone, where he says very clearly: ‘On this basis, it seems beyond doubt that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Fund of the Information Society would be outside the competence of the legislature under the Constitution § 106.’ On the other hand, the conclusion of the law department is not so clear - rather the opposite. They are open and say that this has to be assessed by Stortinget. That's what's special about the case. That is why we are asking for this method of treatment. The most perceptive thing in the debate is that representatives of the government parties have now provided a justification that § 83 can never be used. They're actually giving two reasons for that. They say that if we ask for the advice of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court will interfere in the political debate. Then there is disagreement about what is a political debate, and what is a debate on jus, but it will always be. I cannot see a matter that is so unequivocally political that it has been raised above the political debate and is only legal - above or below it can be discussed, but it is at least outside the political debate. The other reason they give is that the Supreme Court cannot give its opinion on a request from the Grand Duchy, because then the Supreme Court can meet itself later in the door. But I really assume that the Supreme Court is thinking about that. And that's only the issue in one situation: if the majority of the Grand Duchy were sovereignly to set aside a Supreme Court opinion, so that the citizens would later have to go to the Supreme Court to ask for the Supreme Court's opinion again. But I'm assuming that the Supreme Court is aware that they have the same opinion as they did last time, that the citizen will win. So the problem is that the Supreme Court can think of the Grand Duchy's request to give a non-conclusion: that is, on the one hand, and on the other hand, without a clear conclusion. Well, that means that the Supreme Court has only postponed that decision until they get a trial on their table from a citizen. It's not much harder. I guess there's just two remaining moments of tension. One is what the Center Party is going to vote on this matter. They have not spoken in the matter. I'll be waiting for you in suspense. The centre party is a party that often has the same resemblance to itself as especially law-abiding. I remember at least several posts by former stork representative Anne Enger, who has highlighted it as a special feature of the Center Party. I am not quite convinced that this is a correct description - but what comes from the party's own mouth is probably from the heart, and I look forward with excitement to the vote of the central party representatives. Another thing I would like to remind you is that the deadline for proposing constitutional changes in this period is September, so that the representatives of the government parties remember what they have expressed in this Chamber, namely a desire to repeal the provision in Section 83 that the Storting may seek the advice of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e957	For my part, I would like to express a great deal of understanding for the third government party, which has maintained silence in this debate--I suppose from the saying that speech is silver and silence is gold. Especially when you have a bad thing. The two representatives who have spoken on behalf of the government parties have demonstrated to the extreme that there is a bad case. For the entire long formal procedure around § 83, in my opinion, is a clean record bomb. It's talking about something other than the background of this case. Let me remind you that the reason why the Control Committee has at all raised a case is that in the autumn we experienced that the Minister of the Church consistently refused to respond to an interpellation in the United Kingdom where the Council of State was asked to explain the principles on which the Government is using its management of the Constitutional Fund, the Information Society's Fund. There was no indication of an answer. As far as I can see, the government also gives no response in the odelstingsproposition as it has come in half a year late, with the expectation that the Storting will deal with it urgently. The only thing to do is to push ahead with the Department of Justice, without any self-assessment by the Government, without any motivation for the proposal to change the law in order to obtain a legal basis, and without at all following the clear advice of the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs Department that the Government is obliged to provide the Stortinget with an information base that allows the Storting to hold a debate on the constitutionality of the legislative amendment proposed. The formalism of the government parties has been observed in today's debate, which means that it is said that the debate on reality should be taken, by the end of September, at all times, after the committee has been pressured to give up its position on the basis of a proposition that does not provide the Storting with any basis for assessing constitutionality. In other words, neither in this debate nor in the subsequent debate, the Stortinget will have the slightest chance of meeting the requirements that the Law Department has pointed out that the Stortinget should meet. I must say that if, as a parliamentarian, I had represented the government side in such a bad case, I would have felt bad at heart. And I don't want to ignore the fact that the government parties' representatives in the Chamber today have actually felt bad about fashion. Before the final election, the current Prime Minister, in particular, led to a strong argument for the need for majority parliamentaryism, and that majority governments are needed to ensure that Norwegian policies are tidy. I have to say I have a lot of understanding that the demand for majority governments is going down. Because I can't see that in human memory we have had a government that is able to exercise such a sovereign contempt for the Storting as this government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e972	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Votation. See page 3512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e988	Article 3 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states: ‘In all acts concerning children, whether by public or private welfare organisations, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, the best interests of the child shall be fundamental.’;» All children shall have the right to good growth conditions. No one shall experience care failure, violence or bullying without intervention. The need to ensure a more equivalent offer across the country was one of the main reasons why child protection was transferred to the country. Developments show that this was a necessary and proper reform. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has dealt with issues related to child protection on a number of occasions. Both own management audit reports and audit and audit of annual accounts have identified significant challenges for child protection. The report we have to deal with here today supports earlier findings. It shows that the reform was not realistically budgeted and that questions can be asked with good reason whether it was well prepared. But that's now history. The challenges have been in line. It is therefore positive when the Riksrevision studies show that developments are moving in the right direction, although some still remain. A unanimous committee underlines the department's responsibility for realistic budgeting. This requires good needs analysis and the ability to adapt the response device to client access. Good dialogue between the department and the directorate is another necessary prerequisite. The National Audit Office’s study shows otherwise that the annual letters of award are characterised by many and detailed objectives, but have few professional objectives for Bufetat as a whole. However, it is a good start when the National Audit Office and the Department agree on what needs to be improved, and I expect good solutions to be found jointly. Child protection faces many conflicting challenges. The continuity of supply is important for children, while the need for continuity may help to delay the conversion of the apparatus. It is important to strike a balance between short-term actions and ongoing tasks and the further development of the organisation. It is also important that work on further developing relevant management parameters is given high priority. The report reveals that Bufetat lacks appropriate state institutional facilities for children with complex problems. Noise problems and mental disorders make work with this group particularly demanding. It is essential that these young people are guaranteed qualitatively good and individually adapted offers. The state also uses private actors to meet the needs of child protection for institutions. The study shows that about half of the sites in 2007 were purchased without previous competition. A unanimous committee emphasises that the use of tenders for the purchase of premises by commercial operators must be the general rule, in order to ensure a reasonable use of the funds. If for some reason you choose to deviate from the general rule, there is an inevitable requirement that the choice of procedure be justified and that the purchase process be documented and verified. In the case of non-commercial non-profit-making establishments, the procurement rules for exemption from the tendering rule shall be opened. However, the requirement for documentation and traceability for the purchase of sites by such operators also applies here. There is an explicit objective to reduce the use of institutional facilities and to provide more children with space in foster homes. National audit survey and figures per year the end of January 2007 shows that 96 pst. by all children who had a waiting time for foster homes after the decision was taken, were given such a place within six weeks. This is a clear and joyful improvement compared to 2005 and 2006, but the need for foster homes is not yet met. The situation for home-based services is similar. So child protection has a lot to do-- unfortunately, one must well be allowed to say. Finally, let me stress that child protection should help and support children who need it. It cannot be that we choose bad offers - or none at all - because the necessary funds are not granted. The size supports child protection. In order for the Stortinget to help support even better in the future, it is important that the Ministry has a good overview of its economic needs and that there is a good dialogue on the technical and administrative challenges facing it. I am sure that the Minister for Children and Family will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1026	On the basis of the fact that the State assumed part of the responsibilities for child protection in 2004, Bufetat was established to have overall responsibility for the protection of the State’s children. And since 2004, the National Audit Office has had critical comments on resource use and the lack of cost-effective operation. What is perhaps most striking in the 2007 Riksrevisions is that they point out, however, that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has unrealistic budgets. It would be thought that when the state assumed responsibility for some of the most costly measures in the area of child protection, this was well planned. But - as we heard previous speakers say - it might look like it wasn't. The ever-recurring increases in the budget, both within the budgetary period and in retrospect, show that there has been no specific overview of resource needs. It's almost that you can see something symptomatic in that when the state takes over the responsibility, you subsidize, so that the posters become large. You can just think about how the hospitals have been. What was done in the acquisition of parts of child protection in 2004 was to inflate an administration both at the new regional offices and in the professional teams. Yes, it could almost seem as if you were taking the staff of the county councils as the work within the sector, with them on board. On the family and culture committee's journeys around the municipality of Norway, we try, as far as possible, to have a meeting with municipal child protection in the municipalities we visit. And most municipalities give the same signals: the teams don't work, they're both inaccessible and inaccessible. This was not at all the intention of the teams. It seems that this whole organization has become a heavy, bureaucratic mass that requires great resources. The National Audit Office’s report, among its main findings, states that there are regional differences in the use of interventions. But that's exactly what you wanted to avoid. Government administration of parts of child protection would avoid large differences. It is close to asking whether there are no instructions and mandates for the work done in the regions. The whole point of the reorganisation was that uniform action should be taken across the country. So it's probably something in the reform that doesn't work. And I do not agree with the previous speeches that this is history. It's the status quo. The fact that during the years of the reform, the National Audit Office has pointed out poor budgetary management and control should soon help to bring about change. It is good that you try to clear up the mistakes you have made, but when you do not succeed, you might have to look at the whole thing - and perhaps admit that there is something wrong with the whole model. In my time as an auditor, the companies did not have their accounts approved until the deficiencies had been corrected. And we all know what happened to a private company that didn't have approved accounts for three years. I simply think that it must strengthen the lenght also towards Bufetat. It should have consequences if you don't manage to housekeepers in your own house. It's not just running to Stortinget and getting additional funds - 100 million. kr one time and 150 million. The next one, and that's how you keep going. I am aware that before a year has passed, you cannot see how much you need to place children in different activities outside the home. But you don't have to be sub-budgets, you should do the opposite. Turning from institution to foster home location, it is a turn that the Progress Party welcomes. According to the Riksrevision findings, there is an increased use of foster homes and a decrease in waiting time. Now I've been on the Family and Culture Committee for 6 years - almost 7 years. When there was extensive use of residential facilities, the argument was that it was very difficult to obtain foster homes. But now the waiting time has fallen, and more and more children are to be placed in foster homes. It must have meant that there has been a large increase in the recruitment of foster homes. But how has that been done? We know that municipal child protection has worn out by having foster homes. Is it the big campaigns in the papers that have resulted in these new foster homes? If so, how competent is part of these foster homes? And how much of the foster homes you've recruited through newspaper campaigns are financially dependent? I am afraid that this new reform once again is too poorly prepared. The Progress Party has for many years wanted more home-based measures. My concern is whether this turn on the part of the Government has now been made for purely economic reasons. Is it to save a few dollars? At least that's not how the Advance Party thought it would be. Then you've forgotten what's most important. You can't build up an offer until you have a full alternative in place. We should have learned something from the previous reform. It also says that you should now use your own tools instead of using them privately. Despite a better use of resources in public intervention, a letter from the Council of State shows that private institutions have a lower daily price for children in institutions than does the public offer. Then I can't quite see what's the point of going from private to public when you're going to have a cost reduction - you have daily prices in private institutions that are much lower. Now I hope it's the last time the National Auditor's office in the Ministry of Children's and Gender Equality and Buffetat. It may well be too much to expect, but I should nevertheless like to see the Progress Party's proposal for free and independent child protection supervision taken seriously. Just because we see a number of defects and shortcomings being identified, and because we know that this concerns the most vulnerable group of children in Norway, I would like us to have free and independent supervision, which could address both local child protection and state child protection. Now it is the county officials who are responsible for the supervision of the state institutions. The countyman is the state's husband -- I'm not saying that the countyman is doing anything wrong, for all things -- so it's not to avoid thinking that it's going to be like the goat and the oat sack. If costs are to be kept down and the County finds faults, one might imagine that it is easier to point out errors in private institutions than in public institutions. As I said, I hope this is the last time the Riksrevision makes findings in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and Buffetat, because the more under-budgeting and management problems you have, the more it goes beyond the very vulnerable group of children. I expect that until next year we will leave aside comments on this sector, so that the administration can also do the work that is actually the most important, namely to ensure that all children in Norway receive a safe and well-growth fully in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1058	The National Audit Office has carried out an activity analysis of Bufetat. The result shows a lack of control and control. The National Audit Office asks the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and Buffetat to ensure that children and young people receive an offer tailored to their needs. Many employees at institutions report concerns related to price pressure and short-termity and lack of focus on quality and children’s needs. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government must take action to ensure that children and young people receive an offer of good quality that is more adapted to their needs than today. Many children in institutions live in fear that their homes will go bankrupt, they will miss more adults around the institution, or they will be in line for foster homes or institutions. The Christian People’s Party is concerned about whether the children get the most adapted offer, or whether economic priorities govern what the children receive. The public sector in Norway purchases more than DKK 250 billion each year. According to Section 1 of the Act on Government Acquisitions, ‘contribute to increased value creation in society by ensuring the most efficient use of resources in public acquisitions based on commercial and non-discrimination’. It shall also help to ensure that the public acts with high integrity, so that the public is confident that public acquisitions take place in a socially sound manner. Public acquisitions are largely based on competition. Competition in public acquisitions contributes initially to the achievement by the State of the objectives of efficient resource use, non-discrimination and integrity. Public Community funds are avoided and the integrity of the public is weakened by camaraderie and corruption. It's solid. It is therefore important that, as a general rule, competition be used as a means of public acquisition. But competition will not always be an appropriate instrument. Health and care services, including childcare services, differ from other services because of the need to provide good and predictable services to particularly vulnerable groups of users. Child protection is not a general market for the purchase and sale of services but a part of the exercise of state authority. The State has no competitor buying child protection services. The Christian People's Party believes that a good child protection service assumes that those who have the daily responsibility for it can rely on long-term and safe framework conditions. Child protection is therefore poorly suited to traditional tendering procedures, where short-term economic criteria are most often decisive. The Christian People's Party wants legislation that ensures a diversity of measures within, among others: drug treatment and care, rehabilitation, care for the elderly and child and family protection. Ideal care or child protection institutions are going to go bankrupt due to the fact that the state is pushing down the daily price and providing for poor conditions for long-term operation, very important skills and knowledge will be lost, and thousands of patients and child-restraint children will lose their offer. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is necessary to ensure that the exemption from the requirement to bid in the law on public procurement is applied to non-profit-making establishments providing health, care or child protection services. I am glad that a joint committee underlines this in the setting. At the same time, it is important to stress that there is a steady increase in children receiving child protection measures. This calls for increased frameworks for the protection of children, while at the same time giving greater priority to prevention measures than at present. Children living in a difficult life situation shall be given the highest priority. Safe growth is not just about the core family, cash support and kindergartens. For those who do not feel at home as a safe framework, a one-sided focus on the core family is not only of little relevance, but in the worst cases it hurts. We have to see the children who need help, not just the institutions and the frameworks. Therefore, it is very important that the Government follow up the comments of the National Audit Office and provide better tailored offers to the children who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1084	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3513]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1102	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3513]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1120	We in the red-green government want to participate as much as possible in the labour market, and we also want a strong labour-environment law that regulates our working life. We showed this clearly when we took over in 2005, when we reversed several things that the Bondevik I government had done to weaken the working environment law. The thing I've put on the agenda today is probably more than the woman in my example, but what I'm considering is the possibility of getting work done while one is a baby's mother or father, and in this case one's caregiver. The case from which I have experience relates to a young woman who was employed in a larger company in Horten. That company has a three-shift scheme, and the woman worked here until she had a child and took leave. When she wanted to go back to her job, she asked if she could be allowed to go daytime, because she was in a difficult situation as a single-parent. This didn't happen. The trust selection device was also inside the process - without luck. In Section 1-1 of the Working Environment Act on the purpose of the Act, point (c) we can read that the employer should facilitate adjustments to the working conditions related to the individual employee’s assumptions and living conditions. This should probably also apply here. I have a lot of understanding that if this had become particularly difficult -- we have companies that are very small and very dependent on the individual -- this would be impossible to get to. But in this case, and perhaps many other cases, it's a company with about 100 employees. That should be easy. Here it could have been very easy to make smooth arrangements. The law says that there should be no additional burden on other workers, and that is, of course, always a balance when this is discussed. But it is also said that in a given situation this should be disregarded. The worst thing in this case is that the girl was not told up--they probably had no reason to tell her off--but was encouraged to quit on their own. I think that is quite serious. The question that can also be asked is whether the Working Environment Act is a better law or a tax law. If there is a shell-law, there should be someone accompanying, so that such things do not happen. There are most women who are loners, and they need flexible arrangements to get the day together. The aim is work and not benefit, and therefore more organisation is required. There are many reasons why lonely mothers don't work. Lack of education can be one, lack of job offers can be another. But I believe that the lack of flexibility and goodwill from the employer is also a reason. In Social Mirror No. 6/2003, which is becoming a few years old, we see that in 2003 was 10 pst. of the lone-minded men. It shows a trend from the Societal Mirror in 1998, then 8 pst. of the lonely caregivers were men. There may be recent figures that show that perhaps even more of the lonely caregivers are men, but I still believe that the majority of the lonely caregivers are women. It shows that this is also a gender equality debate as well as a debate on the law: how can we best facilitate the working of young children’s parents, perhaps especially women, in a busy time? I also think that the matter that I am dealing with here intervenes in the debate on the cohesion of social inequalities. If we push people out of work by not being able to facilitate people working -- little or much -- social inequalities can occur. In today's working life we need everyone who wants to work, so I think it is important that we look at Section 1-1 of the Working Environment Act further, so that we can implement what we say there so nicely that we should facilitate. I look forward to having a debate here today to look at the possibilities that it is possible to facilitate, and better suited, for those who are involved. This is a problem that I think is rarely raised to this level. People give up because they find that it is easier to quit, and they find other jobs if the employer is difficult and tricky to organise. I guess that's not the kind of work we want. I think it's important that we look at the entire working life in terms of organization in a good way, not to make working life too hard for the many. Again, this is a debate with many facets in terms of both lawmaking, equality and the pressure to leave the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1148	The representative Mandt-Bartholsen puts the spotlight on a very central challenge in Norwegian working life. It may be difficult for many to combine early childhood periods with full employment, at least if you are a single parent. The question raised by the interpellant is how to combine irregular working hours with family responsibilities. More women than men have irregular working hours. This is not least seen in the health and care sector and in the trade in goods. Many workers are able to combine family and irregular working hours, but for single dependants this is a special challenge. In the example to which the interpellant refers, an enterprise in which many work shifts, the challenge becomes extra big. These include attitudes and traditions in a man-dominated working environment and real disadvantages for employers. We must promote equal parenthood, strengthen the role of women and men in caring and contribute to equality between women and men in working life. That's why we need a good and shy family policy. Unlike other countries, we have been able to combine high levels of professional activity among women and relatively high birth rates. However, women still have lower professional activity than men, and over 40 pst. of all working women working part-time today. This fact shows that we have a long way to go to an equal work life. The Equality Act protects against both direct and indirect discrimination on grounds of sex. The general clause defines direct discrimination as acts which place the woman in a position worse than she would otherwise have been, because of pregnancy or childbirth. Pregnancy discrimination can be linked to everything from recruitment to the extension of vicariates, wage development and working conditions upon the return of parental leave. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman receives many requests for this. It supports the fact that this is a form of discrimination experienced by many younger women and mothers of young children. The Ministry has therefore launched a research project to improve knowledge of the reasons for discrimination against pregnant women and how such discrimination is expressed. This is important for us to know more about. However, high levels of professional activity among young children’s parents cannot rely on family and gender policies alone. Workers are protected and have rights under the Working Environment Act. The law has provisions and arrangements designed to facilitate conditions at work so that individuals should not be ostracised. The Working Environment Act includes, inter alia: the purpose of facilitating the adaptation of working conditions to the individual's assumptions and circumstances. In addition, the law provides for the right of workers to freedom of movement or leave from work in connection with childbirth and care. It is about parental leave and the right to freedom when the child is ill. The rules on working time provide for the combination of work and care and responsibilities. For many families, increased flexibility in the allocation of working time over the day will be an advantage. The working time rules therefore contain a number of provisions which contribute to the flexibility of the worker. The rule on the right to a reduced working time allows the worker to adapt working time to his/her situation. For example, early childhood parents have entitlement to reduced working time. The employee is also entitled to flexible working hours under certain conditions. The provision on flexible working time was incorporated into the Act in 2006 and was designed to meet the needs of workers and their desire for more flexibility and more influence on the timing of working hours. The more detailed content of the concept of ‘flexible working time’ is not defined in the Working Environment Act. In principle, it will therefore be for the employer and the employee to jointly find solutions to meet the needs and wishes of the worker, while not entailing «significant disadvantage» for the enterprise. The law also provides for exemptions from night work, including: if there are important welfare reasons, e.g. care for young children. If there is disagreement between the employer and the employee about these rights, the question may be brought before a disputed party for a decision. Adaptation between work and private life is undoubtedly important today, and has become more important than at the time of the introduction of the original Work Environment Act. Although much has been done, this does not mean that work to facilitate a good combination of work and family life is done. It is always important to have a gender perspective on the development of Norwegian employment policies. The aim is that both women and men can maintain links with the labour market and have a good adjustment between family life and work through the different life stages.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1169	I am pleased with the thorough review of the rules by the Council of State and to hear her thoughts about being able to combine it to be a lone worker, and that the Council of State focuses on how difficult this actually is. So, as the Council of State was also talking about, it's more lonely mothers than fathers. Sometimes you may be a little suspicious and think that some employers want to get rid of lonely mothers, as my story tells you. There is also a group that can be more vulnerable to being away because of sick children, and we hear many stories about how hard it is to combine work with having young children. It must, as the Council of State was about, change its attitude. Clearly, we have to work here on many fronts. I also want to mention Section 4-2 of the Working Environment Act. 2 (b), which states that account should be taken of the employee's other conditions of employment. It is a law that must be able to get into such matters as this. Work on the working environment, that is to say what's in it, has to be a continuous process, and we have to develop it as we live in it. If we're going to achieve the goal of maximising the resources we actually have, we have to make the Working Environment Act a minimum of what we want, and not become what it might be now, a framework that people rely on internally. You think we have a good law, but we don't have any rice behind the mirror. We have a generous family policy, and we make provision for both good leave arrangements and good arrangements so that people can start families and have children, and then we have to make it easier for them to combine this as well. What the Council of State spoke about in terms of discrimination and research is very good. A research project has been submitted now, and I think that sounds very exciting. It turns out that we have a long way to go to find out why it actually is. As the Council of State explained, we have the tool, and we have to be willing to use it. I welcome the fact that there will be some debate on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1182	It is true, as the interpellant says, that this is both about the provisions of the Working Environment Act and also in general about the type of work we are going to have. We have been able, to a greater extent than in other countries, to combine parents with full professional participation. After all, when women went out to work in the big months of the 1970s, birth rates fell. It was difficult to combine work and care for children. Then we got better arrangements, longer maternity leave and increased commitment from many fathers. Norway has been among the top European countries in terms of both female participation, female childbirth - they are necessarily only female, without discriminating against father for that reason - and breast-feeding. So here we've done a lot through political decisions. It is now also important to note that we are getting an increasing number of complaints to the gender equality ombudsman on the basis of discrimination in pregnancy. I do not know the reasons why we have received increased complaints. Employment may have become more demanding, but on the other hand, we may also see a new generation of women who don't find themselves in anything. If they experience discrimination in the workplace, they are faster to raise the issue and protest. We need women who make demands in the workplace. Many men also want more flexibility and the ability to combine active family obligations with work participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1189	Let me first get the rose interpellant because she takes up this theme in her interpellation. We're busy having an equal working life, and I thought the interpellant, both with the example she used, and by referring to the law, gets out in a good way that we still have a way to go before we can talk about a truly equal working life, and also before we have a law that can help us achieve that. It's clear that our welfare society would never have looked like it does, if we hadn't had a high level of professional participation among both women and men. We are simply totally dependent on the fact that the most possible, both women and men, are out of work, in order to maintain the level of our welfare services. But that's not the only reason that equality in the workplace is important. At least it's equally important because it gives each of us simple possibilities in life, opportunities to do something that feels meaningful, to be part of a society and an environment, and to realize our own goals and desires. We're good at working, and we want to work. It applies equally to women as to men. The interpellant points out that there are still unresolved tasks, through the copies it used. Another and similar theme in that context is the fight to eliminate involuntary part-time. A lot of those who work part-time today are women, and a lot of people want a bigger job than they do. It's not hard to understand. It's about the possibility of having an income that's to live off, it's about the possibility of planning the day, having a decent everyday life that makes it possible to participate in areas other than the job. One of the reasons why women are particularly affected by involuntary part-time work is that part-time work is widespread within the health and care sectors and the trade in goods, which is highly dominated by women. The Prime Minister and the LO leader have previously seen this problem on the agenda, and fortunately there are many municipalities, among others. After the initiative, which is now working on getting an overview, insight and a basis for doing something about that situation. Within typical man-dominated sectors, part-time problems almost do not exist, but he is still a major problem for many women. Another theme I think is important in this debate is the issue of family equality. It was also the Council of State very busy. It is still the case that there are women who take primary responsibility for the world, and I believe a consequence of that is that one is a little more vulnerable when it relates to women's situation on the labour market. It is therefore important that we continue to improve the welfare arrangements we have for family, growth and care, so that fathers will take, be allowed to take and be encouraged to take greater responsibility for child rearing and care. It will contribute to change, both in terms of attitudes and the organisation of work. Modern men set up when they get into it, and it will also change the working life and many businesses and jobs, because one then has to decide that both mothers and fathers, women and men, have their obligations at home. A last theme I'm busy with, it's about babysitting. This government will achieve the goal of full child-care coverage. It's a fantastic result and a little revolution for small children's families. I believe that in the future it will be about higher quality in kindergarten, among other things. in terms of content, but also greater flexibility. At Gjövik, the municipality now assesses whether to offer kindergartens that are open in the evening, and other municipalities do the same. I think such offers will be important in the future, also linked to what this debate is about, simply because it will improve the everyday life of those who have a working time that is different from the hour. 8 to 8 o'clock. 16, and it will make everyday life easier for single-parents and others who work shifts, tours or other ways have a job that does not fit into the normal opening hours of the nursery. When there are still such examples as the interpellant pointed out, where women are encouraged to quit work because they have had children, we need more knowledge in more fields. We need to change some attitudes, and we need even more focus on gender equality work, also depending on how the working world works. It simply cannot be that women and men who care for children alone are excluded from working life. We can't accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1215	The Working Environment Act has become one of the issues that separates the right side and the left side of today's situation. I am pleased that the reinforcements proposed by the Bondevik II government and adopted at the tamp of the previous ageing period were reversed. It was both correct and important that the red-green government changed the proposed weaknesses of the Working Environment Act. The government believes it is important that workers have a good level of protection in their working life. It is also important for employers. That is why this interpellation by the representative Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen is important, as she points to concrete examples of how wrong it can be when employers do not follow the intention of the law. Here you have the opportunity to correct weaknesses. It would not have been possible if the Bondevik II administration had continued. Our work environment law contains both rights and obligations. It is important that everyone complies with the law, not only the employees, but also the employers. I am pleased with the clarifications the Council of State came into the review she had. This is important for the matter raised by the representative Mandt-Bartholsen, also from an equal opportunities perspective. I'm afraid there are several such things in the country. Then it is good that this has now been put on the agenda, so that others too can get an impact on their difficult matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1226	I thank you for the comments that have come. I notice that it is clearly the Workers' Party that is involved in the Working Environment Act. It makes me proud. It's a fine approach to the state council, because we need to have a broad view of how we, as legislators, should organize working life for the benefit of young children's parents, and especially single-parents. When the Progress Party wants to soften and change the Working Environment Act, it makes me both fearful and skeptical. I believe that such things as that in Horten, and also many others that we hear about, do not at least support simplification of the Working Environment Act. They also support the arguments for a strong and enforceable work environment law. For this girl in Horten, it is not appropriate to go back to work at the company in question. She's one of the strong ones, to whom the Council of State referred. She has taken further training and is going to start somewhere else, because it is not very pleasant not to be wanted by the employer. This girl may have become a little bit mad and took hold of her life and wanted to go another way. But for those who can't, for those who have to mess up their everyday lives best for different reasons, it's actually our responsibility as legislators to make the best possible way to participate in the world of work. Once again, I would like to thank you for the debate. The debate shows that we have a way to go, both in terms of changes in attitudes and in order to make the law follow. We're going to continue that job together. I see that it is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1239	I just want to join the posts that have come here today. It is the case that laws and regulations in the workplace exist in order for us to protect workers. When we protect workers, we also get good productivity and good economy. There's no one who's earned that we have a social economy where we run into those who want to make an effort, out of the labour market. Therefore, we need a strong labour-environment law, and we need a working life that allows us to combine participation with care for the nearest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1246	The debate on substance is closed. 8 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1252	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-7.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1291	During the debate, Mr Solholm put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government that the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness be directly subject to the Office of the Prime Minister [[SMK]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1341	During the debate, Per-Kristian Foss has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In accordance with the Grundgesetz § 83, the Grand Duchy asks for a statement on whether «Instructions for the redemption and regulation of the fixation fee in fixed conditions for residential buildings in which the State or state-run enterprises own the land», as determined by kgl. Res. 14 September 2007, is in accordance with the First sentence of Section 106 of the Constitution. It is also requested to consider whether the proposal to amend Law No. 7 June 1996. 33 on the Information Society's Fund § 5, cf. [[2007-2008]] Ot. pp. No 60 This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote. The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1386	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party, on the proposal of Mr Karin S. Woldseth from the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 29 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to transfer the care agency from the foreign authorities to the child protection agency as soon as possible and by the end of August 2008 in the case of children between 15 and 18 years of age.’; The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1403	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-03.ana.ud2424e1434	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
