ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e22	From the meeting alternate representative of the Finnmark County, Ann-Kristin Engstad, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget under Eva M. Nielsen's leave, from 22 October until further notice, for reasons of well-being. Other alternates of the Finnmark County, Geir Knutsen, are requested to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under Eva M. Nielsen's permit due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The third alternate of the State of Finnmark, Tove-Lill Labahå Magga, is hereby invited to meet during the term of office. Tove-Lill Labahå Magga is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets Eva M. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e48	Tove-Lill Labahå Magga is present and will take the seat. The representative, Gunnar Kvassheim, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e53	On behalf of the representatives of Vera Lysklätt, Borghild Tenden, Leif Helge Kongshaug and myself, I am delighted to propose that environmental status be included in the annual report for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e58	The representative, Martin Engeset, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e61	On behalf of the representatives of Per-Kristian Foss, Svein Flötten, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to introduce the obligation of activity for people receiving financial social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e66	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e91	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Live Signe Navarsete Heidi Grande Røys Helga Pedersen The announced government councils are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e110	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport a question. The current year’s budget has increased the level of road and rail maintenance. The same can also be said about the investment component – a large lag. We're talking about 16 billion kroner on the highways and 12 billion kroner on the highways for maintenance. In terms of investment, we're talking about a lag of several hundred billion dollars. Now we are in a situation where we can face a low economic recession, and the signals of free capacity in the construction industry are alarming. Following yesterday's hearing of the Transport and Communications Committee, there was a signal that capacity would increase by 10 pst. each quarter ahead of the next year and a half of the year. Only in Mid-Norway and Nord-Trøndelag will a free capacity of 80 pst be signaled. We know that there are great differences from part of the country to part of the country. But my challenge to the Council of State is: when we have the kind of challenges on our infrastructure, both for road and rail, is it possible this year to use some of the state's profits to continue projects that are at risk of being stopped, and not least to make an extra effort in relation to racial protection, asphaltation, maintenance, beyond what is already in this year's budget? Here we have a golden opportunity to secure the construction industry, employment, and that they retain their competence, so that not the refugees from this industry – with the challenges we face in the long term in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e121	There is no doubt that, in relation to the boom we have had, we will see a flare-up of the labour market in the future, not least of the construction market and, in part, of the construction market. Currently, the most significant impact is on the construction market. This government, in spite of a boom, has increased the road and rail frameworks in line with its national transport plan. And then some people will probably think that we haven't done it on investment. But it has been a conscious priority in line with not least the desire of industry to prioritise investment higher. We started at a much lower level. There is a lot to do, which the representative Sandberg also sketched. Changing governments and changing parties that have made budgetary settlements with changing governments must take responsibility for one not having dealt with them. This government has operated a reverse operation. We are entering a new era in relation to the transport and modernisation of the whole country. The cyclical situation in which we are now involved is uncertain. We follow him carefully all the way, I will almost say from day to day. We have good contacts in the market, with the actors and their organisations. Of course, we will also consider introducing measures if the unemployment rate in the sector is high in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e130	I am recording that the Council of State is still more concerned with looking back than it is in the future. It's a little sad, because now we have the opportunity to use the advantages we have, both economically and in relation to the increasing available capacity we have in the construction industry. It's just looking at the E18 in Bamble. There it now stops, even if one should have had a planless cross a long time ago. One can look at a number of projects. I see for myself that the Council of State has now been in Finnmark and almost accepted private borrowings to build infrastructure. Isn't it soon that this government is also trying to look forward to solving the major challenges we have in the infrastructure? It is not useful to talk about what this government has done in relation to the national transport plan and the budget for 2009. What's real is that the lag is increasing and our infrastructure is getting worse and worse for every month. It is not useful to point out that one has filled the framework of a national transport plan, when the price and cost increase has almost eaten up all of that which is considered an increased bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e135	I record that the leader of the transport committee is in one of his glan numbers, e.g. black measurement of the situation. I travel around the country, and even though the leader of the transport committee has not got it, people around the country have come to realize that we now have a government that is investing in transportation. It's nice to travel, whether it's to Alta, where I was yesterday, or to other places in the country where people see that we listen to them, listen to their needs, and that we bet. We're betting in a time when it's been a boom -- it hasn't happened before. I'm very proud of that, and we'll continue to do that. We have a hard stake in next year's budget, which is far beyond what any government has set up for a long time. And that'll also give us results. That's where we are. We're in the future, we're in the bet, and we're not in the black polling of the situation in this country. We are very clear about the challenges that lie there, and we are meeting them offensively.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e140	There will be follow-up questions – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e143	Unfortunately, the available capacity in the construction industry is now here, and it is increasing in the near future. It's also so that racial protection is now necessary, the races are now moving. Therefore, there is a lean consolation – although it is partly comforting – that there may be more money for racial protection in the new national transport plan. But one area that we've pointed to, racial protection, points out especially. We have now had many serious events. We had a new breed in my own family on Monday, rv. 13 in Hardanger, just like Odda. Will the Council of State now advance funds to increase racial protection efforts in the light of the racial cases that have occurred? Could there be a package of measures from the Government to exploit the available capacity existing in the construction industry and increase it? This was confirmed in the budget hearing of the Transport Committee yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e150	This government is not running acceleration - this government is authorising resources. We also do not operate and make payments as a previous government, but we do grant funds and increase the budget every year. We have to keep doing that. I commissioned the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration to go through both how we secure existing infrastructure for race, and how we – when we are building new infrastructure – do it in a robust way, and assess what is going to do to meet the growing challenges that have been caused by a changing climate situation – a climate crisis as some denies, but as others we are concerned about meeting offensively. We have an offensive strategy for this. We're increasing the budget by 130 million. kr in 2009, and I have announced that there is a commitment that we will also continue in the national transport plan. We shall then follow the situation closely in the construction market and assess measures in a continuous manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e158	Øyvind Halleraker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e161	When this government is confronted with the fact that less kilometres of road is actually being built than with the previous government, the government claims that they have so much to maintain and prioritize this. The State budget claims that NTP has just been met due to a maintenance effort. But the fact is that for the current year, 400 km of road is asphalted less than last year. This is due, inter alia, to: increase in prices, it is claimed. So this is the worst year in a long time, despite the fact that industry's capacity claims that an increase from 1.8 to 3 million tonnes of asphalt is possible. Now leave notifications are being sent. My question is: does the government not have plans to increase the capacity of such tasks as this, when we get such bad times as we now experience?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e168	Right continues to maintain a stupid scale for how to measure the activity. The roads that I have been opening up, which have been opened by others during this period, are the result of maybe two, three and four years of planning work, with the cause of the Storting and with an offer announcement. There is not a measure of the activity of this government. When I and others are going to open 21 ways next year, there is no good scale either, but there is a measure that we have had an effective progress to start a project and get it done. The meter measure that Right has taken to prove that we don't do the job is unfortunately a very bad scale, because it doesn't give the right image. We have turned funds from investment to maintenance. We have done so in confidence that the country needs to increase its commitment to maintenance. I also have notice that in the national transport plan there will be a commitment to maintenance, which is absolutely necessary and which we will continue for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e175	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e178	The Council of State deserves praise for the budget it has presented, but in terms of the situation in the transport sector and its description, it may well be seen as a black paint. But then it's not us on the Stortinget that black paints it the most, because there's a huge need out there, among other things. to transport projects which stop due to a lack of funds, and because we are dependent on the annual budgets. The Christian People's Party has called on the Government to make an additional proposition to the government budget because the budget was made in good time before this crisis really overthrew us. The situation we're in now could lead us to spend some more money for next year. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Transport is whether she wants to work towards an additional proposition that can be dealt with together with the State budget this year, which can help to keep the projects in the transport sector going.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e185	It is interesting to note the developments that have been in the rhetoric of the opposition, because before the budget was presented, it was clear to the Government that we had to have a tight budget that got interest down. At the time of the presentation of the budget, it was said from some quarters in the opposition that at least there had to be a neutral budget, which would mean a cut of $12 billion compared to what we said. So now, in retrospect, we're going to have the extra packet requirement. In the government, we are busy adapting the economic situation according to the current economic situation. I'd say we have good informants. I'm going to say that we have good people who analyze the situation for us. Of course, we are discussing the situation in the Government. We will, if necessary, take additional measures, but it is not planned per year. today. It is not difficult in my area to find measures that can be taken. I am absolutely sure that Jan Sahl and I can be a few about them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e194	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e197	Race and asphalting are important, as Per Sandberg put the words initially. But there is also a great need for immediate action in the railway sector. In the revision this spring, the Railway Agency received 100 million. kr to immediate action to remedy the emergency situation. Nevertheless, we collective travellers experience that the delays in the Oslo area are worse than ever – and this at a time when we ask people to take environmental responsibility and travel collectively and environmentally friendly. The 2008 State budget shows that the Council of State released the important double-track Ski–Oslo due to a tight construction market. What is the excuse now that the Council of State is not making a heavy effort on the railways in the central eastern region?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e206	The representative Tende has the gift of frenzy! Hems the party colleague in government for four years and does not lift a finger in view of the major challenges in this area. We first lift the railway with NOK 1 billion. So, with an additional $1.3 billion in the 2009 budget, we have added extra funds to the revised national budget to meet the special problems that we have seen when it comes to the Oslo tunnel. And then the representative stands Tend from the left and says we're not doing our job! Then someone has to go home and do their homework! If there's something I'm proud of in this government, it's the big stake we've got on the railway. It's a new time for the railroad. It will take time to turn the shot. That we added 100 million. kr i revised, does not mean that the situation will improve overnight. I don't promise that either. But I promise people in this area will see a trance. From 2012, when the West Corridor is finished, when new trains and new schedules are in place, it will be a time for the train that people in this area have not seen the spouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e215	Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e220	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e224	The spending on the government's bureaucracy has increased by NOK 1.1 billion over the time this government has spent. Modernisation work has stopped. The answer to any challenge of this government is more money and more bureaucracy. No more money has ever been allocated to hospitals, but at the same time the waiting lists have increased by 45,000 patients. There is more money to go, but at the same time it is less built. The National Audit Office has established that red tape is increasing, but efficiency is declining. The Council of State took over a Ministry of Modernization, renamed it the Ministry of Renewal, but turned it into a dissipation number. There is a need to improve the welfare state by reducing the number of people who spend time moving papers, and more people spend time caring for the elderly, building roads and teaching our children. Is it so that this government has left the previous government's goal of moving public employees from the bureaucracy to where services to people are produced: reducing bureaucracy — improving public services? Is it so that the Government has left the goal of the previous government? Or has the government simply failed to follow up the work that the previous government started?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e233	It was a little strange input to that question, I'd say, and a little bit strange use of numbers. What these numbers show is that the government is doing what's in the Soria Moria statement, simply increasing the stakes on priority areas. We've had a lot of growth in the number of additions in Nav and in the university and higher education sectors. I know that Right has been a support player to get it in place. We've had a huge increase in the police, and there will be more police officers next year with the budget that's on the table. We've strengthened Bufetat. That has been absolutely necessary, and we must continue to strengthen Bufatat. We have strengthened the Directorate for Foreign Affairs to reduce the processing time and not least to get something done about the immigration of labour, so that business would get to the people they needed. So we have strengthened the areas that we said in the Soria Moria Declaration that we should strengthen, and that we want to be in the public sector, public service provision. So there's been more service provision. If you look at the number of added to the departments, there have been 113 more this year. The speech used by the representative, Heie, does not reflect exactly that. If you look at the growth in the department and in the department's service centre, which is a real basis for comparison if you think that the bureaucracy has grown under this government, I can tell the representative Höie that under the previous government we got a growth in the number of added to the department and DSS of 7.3 pst. during the four-year period. So far, in three years, we're at 5.4 pst. Even with an enormous investment in the public sector – we have said that the most important services should be located there – we are currently well below the percentage with which the previous government increased the number of people added, and they should cut the number of people added to both the state and the municipalities. So how practice and theory hang in jump for the Right, better get Bent Höie answer for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e242	It was not a goal for the previous government to reduce the number of employees in the country and municipality. The aim was to turn the resources where the services were produced. What has increased most in the government apparatus is the number of PR advisors for the government to create a better impression of the government's own policy. At the same time, one sees, for example: that during these three years, the number of employees in the Competition Authority has been reduced by 20 years of work compared to that of the Bondevik II Government and that the number of annual work in the Data Protection Authority has remained almost stationary. Not all bureaucracy is unnecessary bureaucracy. Public relations advisers for a breach of promises are unnecessary bureaucracy, but strengthening the Competition Authority and the Data Protection Authority would be a very sensible use of public money. Does the Council of State think that this has been a reasonable priority — increasing the number of PR advisors for the Government and reducing the number of employees in key directorates to ensure that the individual is not overrun by the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e249	Now argue, I think, Bent Höie to himself. He says that on the one hand, we're going to get more services out of the people we have, and turn the resources for service provision, and on the other hand, he owes us that we haven't been added to the Competition Authority and the Data Protection Authority. Let me take the two: during my reign, the data protection department has increased by about 8 million. kr in its operating budget, inter alia. campaigns aimed at children and young people in order to preserve their privacy. Competition supervision received as late as the revised 4 million. to strengthen work on anti-competitive crime. If the Competition Authority is able to do the job with the number of candidates they have, it is brilliant. It is a good example of an effective supervision that carries out new tasks within their operating environment – not just within themselves, but including an additional 4 million. kr. It's just the kind of renewal we want more of, that people, supervision and the directorate carry out the priority tasks, preferably without adding more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e256	There will be follow-up questions – first Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e259	Then I would like to ask a follow-up question to Minister of Transport Navarsete. The government has put all the brakes on the modernisation and efficiency of the public sector. In some areas, developments have also been reversed. In October 2005, the Navarsete State Council decided that the adopted competitive outsourcing of the operation and maintenance of the Iron Children’s Agency should be cancelled. This was too important to be left to private. The importance of safety and quality on the railway means that the State had to have full control here. Since then, train passengers have been exposed to persistent chaos, delays and cancellations. 9 721 trains are set so far this year, 247,000 trains are delayed, according to today's Evening Post. The National Audit also points out that the productivity of State-purchased train production is lower than in 1997 and that 25 pst. of all train delays are unexplained responsibilities. Is the Council of State satisfied with the development of the railway system? Does she feel that the ministry has taken the right steps to modernise and streamline Norwegian railway operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e270	First to the day's notice in the Evening Post and the big front-end in which it says '247,000 delayed trains': it's funny, because it's actually only 200,000 train journeys. How a thing to get that number, there's no one in my department that can answer in any way. So I think the post office needs to check its sources a little bit better, and check how they have read statistics. It's pretty hard to see that it can vote. Of the more than 9,000 events, more than 6,000 have been planned, because we have increased resources for maintenance in the Oslo tunnel and here in the Oslo area. So it has our planned stops. Of course, we also have a lot of work in the West Corridor, which has resulted in many planned cancellations of train trips. The activity that will lead to better services for people in this area temporarily leads to some disadvantages. I'm sorry, but I'm glad we're going to have a better system in the long run. We're going to do that with the organization we have, and we're going to do it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e277	Åge Starheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e280	My follow-up question goes to State Councillor Heidi Grande Røys. We have had several debates in this Chamber on the renewal of the public sector, and the Progress Party has pointed out that there is a lack of willingness to renew the public sector. It is claimed by the Council of State that they will make the public sector more efficient, but we do want to argue that it is not much to do, not least when it is a matter of allowing the public sector, which is constantly increasing beyond what is normal wage and price increases. When we hear the criticism of what we in the Progress Party are all in common with the representative Bent Höie, I must be allowed to ask the Council of State: Is the Council of State disagreed with the Riksrevision's retribution of the lack of follow-up and results in the underlying affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e289	The National Audit Office does not necessarily establish that there is a lack of effectiveness, but that there are too many regulatory breaches both in the department and in the agencies under review. That's absolutely right. Luckily, we have the National Audit Office that does the job they're supposed to do. That's what we in the ministry have to focus on and use as a guide to get better. But it's not all the Riksrevision that's going to help us get better. The renewal platform that we presented in the state budget last year points to a number of areas where we've already seen the noise, and we're going to keep setting the noise. The most important tool we have to use is ICT. It's not something we're just trying to establish. As early as 2006, the London School of Economics said the exact same thing as we said when we took over, that is, the digital area – digital renewal – takes over from New Public Management, which was the previous government and the Progress Party’s medicine for everything possible – to privatise, launch competition, release public enterprises rather than reorganize and renew their services, and among those who are actually going to perform the services to be performed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e296	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e300	There is not necessarily an increased number of government employees who are concerned about the Christian People's Party. What concerns us in this context is the reduced use of non-profit or non-profit institutions within different institutions, for example. in the care of drug users, in the field of child protection, etc. We are concerned that there are good offers, for example. for children and young people with behavioural disabilities, who are run by NPISHs and for whom unfortunately there is a need in today's society. There are long waiting lists, and child protection lacks institutional facilities. Nevertheless, we see that there are non-profit institutions that are not used. The Christian People's Party thinks we have to use what's good for children and young people, and not just hang ourselves in whether they're private or state-owned. What does the Council of State think of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e305	The Council of State thinks it's the same thing as the Government, that we're totally dependent on good cooperation and using the voluntary, non-commercial, private institutions. It is mainly the private commercial we have said that we should step down the use of, and that we should fill up with more services in the public domain – it may be within both intoxication and rehabilitation, for example, which are two areas. It is quite obvious that we depend on the ideal non-commercial organisations, but we have also entered into new agreements with the commercial ones, because we need them for the services we have. There is now a lot going on in the area of child protection, and it is the Minister for Children and Gender Equality who has to take responsibility for responding. Among other things, I know that she sent a steering signal to the Buff Directorate earlier this year and asked them to extend the agreement time with the non-profit organisations, precisely because we saw that the conditions of competition that have been in previous announcements have been totally unimaginable in relation to the non-profit organisations. There's something you can do more about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e312	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e315	Years of strong economic growth in itself are centralising. The previous government proposed to decentralise work to regions and municipalities, resulting in new jobs in the districts. During this period of government, we have recorded that the central government agency has swelled significantly. Instead of decentralisation and simplification, as the Left wills, there has been centralisation and more bureaucracy. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State as the SV Council comfortable with this development in which the central government is growing, and what are the plans of the Council of State to decentralise work so that it can provide more decentralised tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e322	This is not the image that the representative of Kongshaug now gives, which is the correct image. When e.g. The Nav sector has increased by more than 650, not necessarily in the Oslo region. On the contrary, Nav has offices all over the country, and it also has universities, colleges and the police. There are three large etaters that have grown in the last year. As I said, the growth in the number of employees in the bureaucracy – i.e. if one is to count it as Oslo workplaces – is actually lower under this government than under the previous government. Then Kongshaug is absolutely right that we carried out a great relocation in the previous period. SV supports the previous government on it It was a brilliant action. However, one must bear in mind that that measure was not implemented before 2006. We are now carrying out an evaluation of that measure, because we are quite forced to look at both the costs of it and, not least, what it has actually had to say to service production in the various supervisory areas. I am quite sure that in the long term this is a brilliant measure, but there is also a measure to be used with caution and not too often.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e329	The President has been made aware of the fact that the Navarsete State Council has used the ‘malicious’ feature of a representative’s reasoning in an article. The president meant to hear that the expression was ‘bad’, but it may be because my hearing is bad. However, the fact is that if the term was ‘poor’, it is far beyond parliamentary language. We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e334	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. The Christian People's Party is deeply concerned that highway no. 1, Hurtigruten, literally is about to run on the ground. The fast route as we know it today, can soon be history. The Minister of Transport shares responsibility for the fate of Hurtigruten, because the Hurtigruten has been wanted by the state for all the 115 years, and the government's purchase of services has been a prerequisite for its operation. Two ships may now be decommissioned, the ‘West needle’ and the ‘North lights’, due to the economic situation of the company. This has been notified more than one year ago by the company. There have been attempts at negotiations, but it has been very slow. Under the Quick Route Agreement, Hurtigruten is entitled to renegotiations with the State in the event of unforeseen costs that could not be foreseen at the time of conclusion of the agreement. The high-speed route is a very important part of the infrastructure along the coast. But its 34 destinations from Bergen to Kirkenes mean Hurtigruten very much to local communities along the coast and not least to the tourist industry. Significant quantities of goods go with the Hurtigruten. In 2007, Hurtigruten’s freight volume corresponded to 10,000 trailers, which are kept away from the county roads along the coast. In particular, Finnmark is heavily dependent on the fact that Hurtigruten can take freezers, refrigerated goods and fish with him on their trips. Then we know that the Hurtigruten has received significant increased costs as a result of NOx and high fuel costs. We now expect from the Christian People's Party and from the Stortinget side that negotiations will have to end soon. They've been in a state of shock, and while fighting the Hurtigruten to survive. My question is: will the Council of State quickly provide a compensation scheme for NOx and increased fuel costs and renegotiate the agreement to ensure daily sailing with Hurtigruten from Bergen to Kirkenes in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e351	I would strongly like to distance myself from a description of reality based on the fact that the Government and the Ministry of Justice have trained important negotiations with Hurtigruta. We have had a continuous dialogue with Hurtigruta, and we have made full decisions on how far we can go within the current competition law and current EEA legislation. Quick view is not eight by the state. Quick route is a listed company that has a commercial agreement entered into under the previous government. The fast route has alerted them that they are in a difficult economic situation, and we have, as I said, had conversations. I've had a meeting with the leadership of Hurtigruta in Bergen, where I made clear what is the Government's ambition, easy to enter into the negotiations with the goal of becoming some of the compensation for NOx and going into and assessing the agreement, so that through it we can make sure that the Hurtigruta gets a better, good life along the coast. I agree with the description of Hurtigruta's meaning, and I was reconfirmed in North Norway yesterday. I still have a running contact with the rental in Hurtigruta, and we are ready to sit down and finish the negotiations. I want them to be finished by 1 November. This is not a matter that the Government takes lightly, but it is a matter where we have to weigh our actions up against what might be perceived as state subsidies, and which will put the Hurtigruta in an unsustainable situation, if they are later set to pay back what is being compensated for now. We mean to have a good plan for this, and we're on track for what has been announced in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e367	The last meeting was in Bergen, and it's starting to be a while ago. It has been pointed out several times, including from the Stortinges side, that we are heading towards a point where the Hurtigruta must have an answer, and now it is approaching significantly. I have to say that it is a little strange to hear a central party council that is skeptical of ESA and the EU, when the central party in all other contexts has pushed that system to the limit. Why don't you speed up and get a deal, so you get to test it out with ESA? There are others who have spoken to ESA, and they have been told that there is a significant room. It is ESA that has itself approved this agreement, where there is just a room for negotiation. Then I would like to repeat my specific question: Do you want to compensate for NOx and fuel costs? In that case, we might avoid putting the ships in storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e379	The centre party does not tremble at the EU or ESA. But I would say that what we do as members of the Government, on behalf of the Norwegian people, is done on the basis of advice from outstanding legal competence, and of course also through consultations. So I don't come here with a score point or a single position of a government council. This is a very important work. The Quick Panel itself recognises the process risk involved in the work we are doing. The reason we have had a process from the meeting in Bergen until now is that of course we have had to get verified, we have to get the basis for, the numbers that have emerged. We have to go through it. What we're doing in this area is going to be 100 pst. I'm sure. And then there's negotiations. It is not that there has been no contact between the Ministry of Transport and Hurtigruta since the meeting in Bergen. It is not that the Council of State is in all meetings. I could say that we're going to take full advantage of the space that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e386	There will be follow-up questions – first Modulf Increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e390	There is uncertainty on the coast about a 115-year tradition that Hurtigruta represents will continue. Two, maybe three, boats are laid out in Åndalsnes, and it speaks its own language. We who live on the coast ask ourselves the question: Can we expect the Hurtigruta to go north and south every day for the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e397	It is important to establish that there is no agreement with the State that is the main cause of Hurtigruta’s problems. It may be produced this way, according to a reading in the media today. It is not correct. The reasons for these problems are made available by management and management over time, and they are not a direct consequence of the agreement as an entry on a totally free basis, on a competitive basis. It was also, it seems today, on the basis of some assessments that were not good enough from the company's side. But it's the company's responsibility. It's a little bit important to separate the roles here. As far as I can contribute to it, within the space of action that exists, and as a Council of State on behalf of the Government, I have the intention to make full use of it, the State will contribute to what we can, so that the Hurtigruta can go both north and south in the years to come, on the coast. It is important for the coast, and it is important for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e404	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e407	Now it is probably not quite right that the agreement between Hurtigruta and the state does not matter, because without the agreement that Hurtigruta has had with the state, Hurtigruta would not have existed. One has to take over. Thus, the state has a moral responsibility as well, and that's why a paragraph has been included in the agreement that goes on renegotiation. However, I agree with the Council of State in the statements that have come before, that the Council of State feels this almost as a pressure from Hurtigruta's side, and if Hurtigruta now puts two boats in charge, it is a breach of the agreement. That's where I think we're in complete agreement. My challenge to the state councils is more about ESA. If it is now the case that ESA means that we need to have a completely new round, competitive outsourcing, a new round of tenders about the entire contract concept, will the Government be behind what ESA concludes? It will mean a completely different concept than the one we know today. My second question is whether the Council of State is aware that the two boats that are threatened to be placed in storage now are actually the two boats with the largest capacity, and that get expenses, whether they are in storage or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e418	The requirements of the Hurtigruta have been met both in the short term and in the long term. The short-term measures relate to renegotiation in relation to NOx, bunkers and other items that may be possible to look at, the sailing pattern, if any. The long-term measures relate to the renegotiation of the contract itself, which will mean a new agreement. If a new basis of competition will mean a change of route, it is up to the government and the Storting to decide at any time, because there is an agreement to be submitted to the Stortinget. It doesn't necessarily mean that one will see a completely modified concept compared to today, although one probably has to realize that the costs will be slightly higher, because that's the basis for the matter that we now have, simply to assess how much the increase in costs has been due to it could have reason to consider when a contract was signed. So it gets one coming back to. We have also said that we are willing to go in and evaluate that page. We've asked ourselves to discuss all the questions here. But now we're on the short term first, to solve the problems that you're now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e428	Øyvind Halleraker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e431	Hurry up and get in the rough. Governments commented on the media yesterday, when it was announced that another ship would be placed in storage, that it is not the state that owns the company, and that the owners have to clean up. But she knows better. At a meeting at the beginning of September in Bergen, she was informed about a number of measures that the company had on the stairs and that they have now started implementing. Another aspect is coastal ferry transport, which has thus been compensated for its increased operating costs. Indeed, there is a significant reason why the maintenance item in the State budget has increased. This, in addition to the NOx tax, therefore, contributes to the company’s having eaten up the gain. The problems then have to say the tower rises, and the company is in danger of going over the edge. Will the Council of State be comfortable to be remembered as the Council of State that was responsible when such a long-standing tradition went?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e443	It will not be the agreement with the State that, if the Hurtigruta gets any further problems, will roll the Hurtigruta. What is in the agreement with the state, we have a good dialogue with Hurtigruta about, and we sit with Hurtigruta to find good solutions to it. However, as the representative Halleraker said, there are many other measures being taken by Hurtigruta – a restructuring of how a company itself operates, a concentration on what is the core business, i.e. the Hurtigruta along the coast, and the sale of other activities. There are many elements that also need to be put in place to ensure that the Hurtigruta is well developed. As I have said in previous articles today, the government and I are ready to use all the space for action to provide Hurtigruta with the necessary backing from our side. But I have to remind you that entering with pure State aid is forbidden, and I would believe that at least the Right is aware that we are complying with the law as being in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e450	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e453	We are all concerned about the future of Hurtigruta. It is also evident here in the Chamber today that there is a great cross-political consensus on the fence of Hurtigruta. In particular, many people are concerned about the coast. This morning I heard the news. Then the editor of Nordlys stood forward and preached that if nothing was done, Hurtigruta would be able to go bankrupt. Do the Councils agree with the editor of Nordly's analysis of Hurtigruta's situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e460	There is no doubt that the Hurtigruten ASA is in a difficult economic situation. It comes from a high debt tax, which in turn has caused severe investments not made on the basis of the agreement with the State but which are made on the basis of the growth expected in the commercial market. It's important that we here are neat and separate. But, the situation of Hurtigruta is difficult. If nothing is done, neither in relation to the part that we are talking about here today, i.e. with the agreement with Hurtigruta, nor the other legs that we are now working on to get a safe arrow while operating the Hurtigruta, which I mentioned in a previous post, the situation would be dramatic afterwards. But it'll be taken thanks. The Hurtigruta leadership is now actively working in many areas to balance the economy. The agreement with the state is one of the areas where you work, and there we have to contribute constructively.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e468	We go to the last main question – Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e471	First, I would like to thank the President for the comment made by the Council of State of Navarsete. The performance today was quite a sight in the hall. It shows a lack of respect for Parliament. But it is also allowed for state councils to have a bad day. That is why I have chosen to ask questions to the Grande Røys Council instead. The SV and the Left have been united in many important issues of transparency in democracy, the development of democracy, open hearings in this house, committees, open committee meetings at local and county level. Developing democracy takes us all the time. To make power structures visible, to show power structures, to develop democracy is facing increasing challenges, because we see that we are getting an increasingly professional influence apparatus and new issues related to transparency in democracy. Therefore, the Left and SV have joined forces in the matter of getting a lobby register. In 2004 we discussed this matter here in the Chamber. Governments put sail in the hall and voted for a lobby register. Then the Council of State has been given an opinion on a proposal that has come back, on a lobby register here in the hall. There, the Council of State refers to Swedish power investigations, and not to the Norwegian power investigation, to which Mr. Ågot Valle referred, and which Mr. Øyvind Østerud said on the news today, as to how important it was to make the structures of power visible. She refers to some unfortunate consequences, sail if it does not appear in the letter what unfortunate consequences it may lead to, and today rejects the proposal from the Left. So my question to the Council of State is, is it more important to make power visible when you don't have it? Is it so that SV is too transparent when they are not in government? Is it that SV doesn't think it's important to challenge transparency in power structures when they're seafaring and governing in these power structures?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e480	I can only give full support to the storytelling of Trine Skei Grande. It is quite right that SV has been in charge of a lobby register proposal with the Left. Several times SV has also been alone in making suggestions, but the left has always voted in favour. But this is the case with SV as it was with the Left in the previous period, that one does not have the support of its government colleagues for the proposal. This is a proposal that has not been cleared on the Soria Moria platform. As a result, SV did not obtain a pass-through to review the proposal when it is now also available for the government apparatus – in the previous period, it was only important for the Storting. That just means that SV is not more against that proposal than one has been before, but it is a matter that was not clarified in the Soria Moria platform, and therefore we have not been able to support the proposal now. That being said, it's not that SV doesn't work for openness in the power corridors – on the contrary. One of the most important things in any case I have done from my Council of State chair is to put in a new, public electronic postal file where not only selected media houses get access to posts that go to and from the government quarter, but all political parties, each single resident in this country, businessmen, organizations, voluntary teams and whoever it is, can gain insight into the correspondence that goes to and from the government quarter, when we get this in place over the new year. It's a quantum leap when it comes to publicity and transparency in what the government is doing. We've just presented a new public law that reinforces the principle of public disclosure. I have myself made sure that the newspapers are provided with an overview of the rental salaries. Once a year, they get quite detailed protocols, just to get a debate on it, and we've not least published the tax lists, which the previous government prevents the media from having access to and making comparisons, just to focus on, for example, differences in this society. So SV works absolutely for openness even from the corridors of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e491	It's an honest thing to lose, but that means you don't think this is important. I believe that it is a much more important matter than any of those that the Council of State has framed here, because it is the very basis of our democracy to have openness around lobbyism. It is not only that the Council of State rejects the proposal with a little strange argument, she also hassles about the proposal in the letter. She hassles, among other things, on something that we have not proposed, but that it might be interesting to hear the opinion of the Council of State, namely whether it will also lead to a decision on whether to take care of SMS messages. Based on the events of the last week, it might be interesting to get an assessment from the Council of State on whether she considers SMS messages from e.g. a prime minister of a financial institution manager as interesting to the public and that it is important to have procedures to enable the public to have access to that type of communication in given situations. Or does SV think that as SV sits with the Minister of Finance, such things are not so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e496	Now it is that the law on archives and regulations and what to record are under the Ministry of Culture and the Church. But as an IT minister, I would like to make a little comment on that anyway. 15 years ago, there was a big debate in the administration about reporting emails, and among other things. my department received a letter from the agencies that couldn't understand that one was going to file e-mails, because one got hold of what came by letter. Technology is changing all the way, and the legislation relating to journalism is also very much needed to change with technology. It is such with SMS messages that there is more content in a message than the text message itself is decisive for whether or not the content of a message should be recorded. It must only be followed by the administration, but it is, as the Ministry of Culture and the Church are responsible for it. But it's a piece of legislation that's absolutely necessary to be alive, just to be able to capture what's of interest to the public, who's in touch with who – it's perfectly obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e503	There will be follow-up questions – first Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e506	There's a difference between being run over and being lobotomized. I understand, as the council says today, that SV was overrun in the government of the Workers' Party when it came to the question of the lobby register. The working party has no tradition of standing on for greater transparency, and they have shown that once again. But what is completely incomprehensible to us in the Left is that the commitment that SV has had to greater transparency and to the lobby register on the Stortinget, now is completely zeroed out and replaced by an indifference and a homage to the proposal, as it appeared in the letter from the Council of State to the Storinget. A number of arguments are used, with which the Left and SV have been met in Stortinget, and which we have repeatedly rejected. These arguments are now being used by the Swedish Government itself in the government against this. Does the Council of State consider it important to have driving rules for the lobbying activity and is she willing to reconsider the lobbying register in the light of recent events?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e511	The representative Kvassheim’s use of words such as ‘overrun’ and ‘lobotomised’ must, in this case, fall back on the situation for which the Left itself was in the previous period, when they were voted down by their government colleagues in the Storting for the same proposal for which SV has not now been implemented by the government, among others. because there has not been a clear policy in the Soria Moria Declaration, and that is an honest thing. That just means that we're listening to the next Soria Moria statement to get that proposal, if SV still wants to prioritize it. That being said, I have also shown that it is in no way such that the lobby register alone is what can lead to more openness and transparency in administration. On the contrary, the big, important things we've been working on in this period will just lead to more transparency, more publicity, and it would just be missing. Norway feels like democracy that we have openness and transparency. That we didn't get the lobby register in place this time, doesn't mean we're going to let that matter be lost forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e518	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e521	The letter sent by the Council of State to the Committee in connection with the lobby register, I see a clear and straightforward argument as to how this will be a system which will in fact be unmanageable to the Storting and which in many ways will also weaken democracy, not strengthen it. But what's a big challenge, and the questioner was also so much involved, is that in many ways today's laws take as a starting point the time when the post was called The Post and our biggest expenses when we were to communicate with others were postage. The reality today is quite different, as the communication is done by e-mail, via SMS messages, in various chat channels, MSN etc., which I perceive in many ways as a legitimate area. Has the Government taken any initiative to rectify this situation in order to obtain a public inquiry into how the public law, the law of archives and other laws relating to relations between the employer and the employee can go into a new era of new technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e528	The letter that I sent to the Storting with an answer to questions about the lobby register is on behalf of the Government, because it is only the government we will be able to answer for. The size must make its own assessments in relation to a lobby register in Stortinget. It was not to say that this was unmanageable, but it was to point out that it might be difficult to draw up any limits on which contact to register and how far one should go. If we're going to go in for a proposal, it's important to have seen one thing from all sides. That doesn't mean it's unmanageable, but it has some negative sides to it. When it comes to the second debate, what I also said in my previous answer is: this is an interesting debate. In the light of new technology, the law and the legislation we have today meet new challenges. It is not always that the legislation and the law are quick enough to capture that kind of challenge. This is the Ministry of Culture and the Church. They are responsible for archive laws and regulations. As I see it, there is more content, as I said, in an SMS message than the medium itself that decides whether a matter should be reported or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e536	The Christian People's Party has a sense of the Left's proposal. That's a lot of good arguments for a lobby register. But then the Christian People's Party, like the Government, has seen that the disadvantages of the proposal are so great that we can't go in for it, because it's bureaucratically difficult to delineate and difficult to deal with, and maybe will drive lobbyism out of landfills and departments, and one will get places outside. So we have concluded that we will not support the proposal from the Left. When I now hear the answer from the Council of State, and when I read the answer that was sent to the Storting this summer, I see that it is argued that the Government will have openness in society in general, for example. with regard to the tax lists. It's good to mean that, but what does the Council of State think is the most important approach that the Government can take to gain transparency in central government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e543	I have already been involved in two matters for which I am personally responsible. There is a new electronic mail file that ensures, as I said, transparency for every single resident in this country, all teams and organizations, the political parties, not least. Today, political parties do not have access to the mailing lists to and from the government quarter. They will now have the new scheme when we get it in place over the New Year. It's clear it's a quantum leap when it comes to the transparency of what's going on and what's going on and what's going on – what's sending us to and from the government quarter. The second thing I'm responsible for is the labour market in the state. I'm important to have a debate in society about how the state pays its leaders. That's what we got this summer, and that's what we have to tolerate when we publish what we do, and we have to stand for the decisions we've made when it's about mercenary wages. We got a debate on that this summer. It was because this government publishes its decisions, contrary to the previous government, where each journalist had to call the Department of Ministry and even set up a bill and arrive at the conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e550	Then the oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e555	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, the questioner is not present. Question 12, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Health and Welfare, to be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for Health and Welfare, who has been away. Questions 13 and 14 from the representatives of Vigdis Giltun and Sonja Irene Sjøli, respectively, to the Minister of Health and Care, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e582	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e588	This is an overarching question from the previous Question Time, but which unfortunately is equally topical: ‘The situation in the international economy may give rise to effects in Norway requiring exceptional measures. Together with significant and increasing available capacity in domestic and foreign civil engineering, this provides a specific opportunity for an expanded and reinforced low-risk investment in own funds rather than high-risk investment in foreign financial markets. A number of clear road projects are awaiting funding. A number of road projects in progress may be carried out. How does the Council of State prepare such efforts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e602	The 2009 draft State budget provides for a substantial increase in the investment frame for road installations. 14 major road projects have been proposed to start in 2009. Furthermore, it has been assessed as appropriate to start additional three major projects if sufficient clarifications are available in time. These projects are rv. 2 Kongsvinger–Slomarka in Hedmark, E18 Sky–Langangen in Westfold and Telemark and E6 Nidelv bru–Grilstad/Værnes–Kvithamar in South and North Trøndelag. In addition, several toll projects are being carried out with the possibility of starting construction in 2009. The draft budget provides for a very high level of activity in the road sector in 2009. This will reduce the trend towards decline in the construction market as we see. I would also point to the very strong growth in the railway budget. The proposed budget for 2009 is also a good counter-cyclical budget. In the question, it is pointed out that a number of more construction projects are waiting for funding. In this context, I must point out that time is required from the time it is allowed to start the work. The minimum number of years to add to is half a year. For larger and more complex projects, it may take up to one year before the works can start. In addition to resource-requiring design and the development of competitive foundations, the supply process itself, such as: Includes call-out, calculation and formal decision-making, a time-consuming process. For smaller investment measures and maintenance of the road network, the image is different. Obviously, the government is following developments in the economy closely and is considering the ongoing need for additional measures. I'll show you in this context, among other things. to the financial package submitted by the Government on 12 October. It is currently too early to say whether additional measures in the transport sector may be relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e613	Thanks for the answer. Governments themselves pointed out that in the case of smaller projects, further planning is not required for half a year before it can be started. It is one of the areas that the Progress Party will point to, and I think it will also include more efforts in the field of racial protection. As we were in the spontaneous question hour, it's so that more storms bring more races. No matter what you think about climate, it's like we're having storms that give more races, and we've recently experienced new races – this week at the latest on rv. 13 after the school bus had just passed. In the field of racial protection and in the case of smaller projects, it is possible to use notified available capacity and notified increasing available capacity for immediate action. Will the Council of State make use of that possibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e622	It is possible to require smaller investment measures. When it comes to the race protection projects that have been shown in the media image, the last is rv. 13, where it has been an event now, and where we are all happy that it didn't go worse, and that human life didn't go lost, it's with Rv. 70, The Grown-up Beaches - which is another project we have been closely following - a type of project that needs to be planned and done a job is done before they can be started. On the Uppölstranda we have promised 1 million. kr in planning agents. There is currently no regulation plan or other planning work on that section. So there is a potential, and therefore – as I have said several times in the room today – we follow the situation carefully to see if we are going to introduce additional measures in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e627	The question that I think many people outside this building are asking is how long to follow before you do anything. In the Progress Party, we believe that an important signal from the Government that you will actually do something will be that you advance. It is a small controversial financial tool, but at least it shows a willingness to facilitate the implementation of smaller actions, and at the same time it is a financial signal that the necessary final planning and clarification of major projects can be started. In addition, I must also refer, as the representative Sandberg did, to the information that came during yesterday's budget consultation in the Transport Committee, where, in addition to documenting the available capacity, it is also pointed out that the price increase that we have had this year eats up a lot of the joyous increase that has occurred in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e634	Finally, I would say that the Progress Party's representative knows more than I do if he knows that the price rise into 2009 will be at the level we have had in time behind us. Everything tells us that we're going to have a flare of the price rise, and that she'll be more in line with what's written in the budget, than the extremely high price rise we've had in the year that we've had behind us. There is nothing to suggest that the price rise should continue to increase with an oil price falling, and with a market that allows us to now get more supply of the projects and more competition. It has been almost absent in the time we have behind us, because of the high economic cycles we've had. I understand that people outside ask, but then people out there should also know that this government has a much higher level of activity in the transport sector than it has been in the past, that it will be a separate higher level in 2009, and that, of course, we should also consider measures beyond what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e644	‘In the 2007 State budget, 40 million were allocated. kr for construction start at new Ski Station. The project was never started. The State budget for 2008 shows that the State Council chose to postpone the project due to a tight construction market. The 2009 draft budget states that the project will be postponed again, because there will be no finalisation of the draft budget. Does the Council of State understand that people are surprised that the project is being postponed again and again and with ever new reasons?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e651	Before I answer the question, if I have used the word ‘bad’, I will ask why. In that case, it was not intended and intended and should not be used in this room. I can't remember doing that, but if I used it, I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e656	I thank the Council of State for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e661	So to the answer: Development of Ski Station from today's three tracks to a future six-track solution to the platform, with new downfalls and rises to the platforms and besides new solution for bus terminal, is part of the development of new double-track Oslo-Ski. In the 2007 government budget, 40 million were seen, as pointed out by the representative Tenden. kr for detailed design, preparation of the construction plan and start of the first phase of the project towards the end of the year. Detail design and construction plan were completed, but the project was not started physically. At the same time, both the Stortinget and local authorities raised questions about the establishment of a high-capacity track connection at or near Ski Station that could ensure more flexible track use of trains from the east or west lines on the Eastfold Railway. There were also questions about the stop pattern, where former municipal plans had stopped both at Vevelstad and Kolbotn, among others. as part of the discussion around the construction of the high-speed rail. In 2008, the Railway Agency carried out extensive distribution work which re-evaluated these issues, together with a further optimisation of the route for the new Follobana with regard to implementation, costs, progress and consequences for the external environment and land use interventions. I consider the construction of a new double-track Oslo-Ski as a special important railway project that will facilitate a monthly increase in the number of rail journeys on the route. The project is important for developing and increasing freight transport to and from Europe, and is a key project for increasing the route supply that is an integral part of Oslopacket 3. As mentioned in the 2009 budget proposal, the Ministry therefore calls for the planning of the entire project in dialogue with local authorities, including the construction of a new station on Ski, before the development of Ski Station. It is important to see the expansion and connection to the Ski Station in conjunction with the new route for double tracks between Oslo and Ski. Starting with an expansion of parts of the Ski Station that may require later constructions means that the development will be more expensive and will create greater problems for train traffic due to construction operations at the station than is necessary. I think it would be very understandable that it is now important to have full pressure on a good and inclusive planning process, so that once the necessary clarifications have been made locally and the funding is in place, the development project itself can be implemented as quickly and rationally as possible. I would remind myself that the red-green government has increased the investment level of the railway by a total of 140 pst. in relation to the level under the previous government, and has placed great emphasis on rational progress and efficient use of money. This means that started projects have been run at a higher rate and that a boot-up has been done, among other things. Oslo–Ski could have happened sooner than one could have done without such an increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e678	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When the Transport and Communications Committee was on a committee mission in Akershus in May, we were told by Øyvind Rørslett in the Railway Station that the plans for the Ski Station were clear, and that only the money was missing, that is. SEK 1.5 billion. This was also mentioned in the Official Journal of the East on 8 October 2008. New double tracks between Ski and Oslo hurry. The state council knows all about that. Ski station may be developed as a step-by-step planning process. I have received this information from sources that I trust. This is independent of the stops at Kolbotn and Vevelstad, as mentioned by the Council of State. I also see in the Evening Post today that the Council of State promises that the bottleneck in the Oslo area will be removed in 2012. When will the Council grant the money to Ski Station? And what does progress look like for this important double track?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e689	According to what the Railway Agency knows, both Oppegård and Ski municipalities will implement a new municipal plan and a new regulatory plan for the route through these municipalities, while the Municipality of Oslo has indicated that for their part it is most relevant to go directly to the regulatory work. Before starting construction on Ski, land-use decisions should be taken in the municipality as a minimum. Such decisions may be taken in the summer of 2011 if the process goes without significant delays and if the Railway Agency is adequately supplied with the means of planning the coming years – which they will receive if this government is seated. The main point in this case is that we have to see Ski Station in conjunction with the double track. Too few years ago, a double track saw as a project long in time. Now the government has allowed 50 million. kr in the next year's double-track planning budget. It is important for both efficient and rational development and the best possible use of money that one looks at the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e696	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Construction in the West Corridor took place in stages. Ex post evaluations show that this has cost a lot of money – much more than it could have cost if you had taken the whole route together as a large, overall project. Will the Council of State take this experience from the West Corridor with it in the forthcoming National Transport Plan and build the Oslo–Ski route smarter, i.e. that you build it as a big project? The Soria Moria Declaration mentions project financing as an alternative. Is this a possible project finance section?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e705	The government always assesses how we can build more efficiently and smartly and thus get more money back for the money we put into the field of commerce. There are interesting information that the Railway Agency has come up with about what one could have saved if the West Corridor had been built as a coherent project. Although not all the maps are drawn in relation to the national transport plan, I am busy starting with Oslo-Ski, at least having an effective development, so that a project can be developed in the most rational way possible. This is about the fact that in a heavily populated area there is a strong outrage after getting the project in place, and it's about avoiding too many fragmentations will get more for the money. This is a question that I have to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e713	The question may seem a little daunted, given that it has also been a while to answer. I still choose to put it: ‘30. August d.o.b. we could read in the Trønder-Avisa online version that necessary expansion at Trondheim Airport Guards must wait. This is mainly due to the fact that Avinor has to pay about 400 million annually. kr in dividends to the country and in addition transfer 1 billion. kr to the small airports in the country. Will the Council of State change the framework conditions of Avinor, as well as change the dividend policy, so that Avinor can invest more in Norwegian airports?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e723	Avinor is responsible for 46 State Airports and the air navigation service and shall facilitate the safe, environmentally friendly and efficient operation of aviation in all parts of the country. Avinor is organised as a limited liability company in which the state owns all the axans. In a limited liability company such as Avinor, the board of directors is responsible for deciding how much the company should invest and where to invest. On the other hand, the Ministry of Transport and the Government have responsibility for the framework conditions of the company. In the strategy for Norwegian aviation, which I submitted before the summer, I said that I want to ensure that Avinor has a framework that allows the company to solve the tasks it has been set to do. An important goal is to have an airport structure that ensures a good supply throughout the country. The principle that excess aerodromes are involved in financing submerged aerodromes is important to achieve this objective. Avinor is facing major investments in the next few years, and has warned that with the framework conditions it currently has, it has challenges to provide funding for all the investments that the company wants to make. I want to show that Norway, as a nation, is totally dependent on us constantly having a well-functioning aviation infrastructure in all parts of the country. I take the challenges of Avinor seriously, and have everything to do to remedy the situation: In an extraordinary general meeting in August this year, I changed the statutes of Avinor, so it would be easier for the company to raise loans in the private market. Furthermore, in the 2009 state budget, I have stated that there will be no dividends from Avinor next year. I am now preparing a big message about the company in Avinor. In the message, I will go through the situation and challenges in Avinor and consider whether there is a need for further action. I intend to present the message early in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e738	I thank you for your answer. I am also very pleased that the Government in connection with the State budget changed the dividend charge for the airports. The consequences of the non-implementation of the deployment and security measures on Guards will be a lack of aircraft facilities. In addition, the lack of capacity and poor technical standard on baggage facilities will affect operational stability and punctuality. You'll also get fewer flights, which will go off the grid, especially on the foreign routes. This is explained by Avinor at Værnes. I am also pleased that the Council of State wants to present a big message. In the context of the Landfill Communication, will the Council take a closer look at the special safety requirements, which provide additional costs for the Shortrange Network, financed by government funds – i.e. the issue of cross-subsidisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e745	Of course, in the big news that the Ministry of Transport will present on behalf of the Government, we will go into many areas of aviation in Norway. We'll also discuss the dividend requirements, which I've already announced. We probably won't go in and discuss to a large extent what's going on at the cross-subsidisation that exists today, because it's a system that, according to the Government's view, works very well. She's unbureaucratic. She's simple. It is also an acceptable regime within the EU. Otherwise many aspects of aviation will be discussed in the message, and of course Stortinget will be able to go into the different aspects of aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e754	Norway has among the highest airport charges, but even with the high charges, it is not possible to implement the necessary investments. From my point of view, the safety of Norwegian airports is important. It's important to focus on it. It is also important to implement the investments necessary to ensure this security. Still, there are some concerns, and I'm a little disappointed that you don't want to look at the financing of the short-haul network. In this context, can the Council of State explain to me quite pedagogically and simply why it cannot be financed from the State budget, why it becomes more complicated and complex than maintaining the funding that is currently available?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e763	First, there's a precision. When it comes to the area of security, it is the Air Safety Authority that manages it on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, and we cannot, of course, go in and instruct them. We had a pretty long process on this case in the past, which led to a slight reduction in the security zone, but it's a matter where we can't go in and override the Air Safety Authority's decisions. When the cross-subsidies are involved, the representative knows as well as I do that posts on the state budget are subject to annual drawdowns. Having a simple, unbureaucratic system within the company – with Avinor being organized as an AS with its own economy, where one manages this – is clearly a much easier way to do it than to transfer responsibility to annual budget discussions. So there's a system that the government is busy with that we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e773	The question is: ‘I refer to letters of 15 October 2008 from the group manager of SAS to, inter alia, the Minister for Transport of Norway on the consequences for aviation of emissions trading based on the EU Directive. Air transport in Norway and air transport to and from Norway are important for the country. What are the arrangements made by the Council of State to prevent systems of aviation emission allowances and the pricing of such allowances from giving rise to strong price increases and reduced transport offers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e782	However, although aviation accounts for a relatively small proportion of total greenhouse gas emissions, aviation must be involved and contribute to the reduction of emissions, in the same way as other industries. Norway, as one of the few countries in the world, has a general CO2 tax on all domestic aviation. The reason why the charge does not apply to international traffic is that such a charge would be a breach of bilateral agreements. The government has long called for effective instrument use for international aviation. As you know, international aviation is not regulated by the Kyoto Agreement. The government is working for aviation to be part of the next international climate agreement. I think it is very positive that the EU should carry out its work to regulate emissions from international aviation. The EU will include aviation in its allowances system from 2012. The cost to the airlines will depend on the number of allowances distributed free of charge and the quota price. As a result, the EU Commission's proposal that most of the allowances be distributed free of charge will have less impact on the company's costs. Norway’s experience with CO2 tax means that the consequences for passengers will not be particularly significant. The government will follow the EU’s work on the further development of the ETS carefully and assess any consequences and needs for adaptation to Norwegian conditions. It would be natural to assess the Norwegian CO2 tax in conjunction with any aviation allowances. Effective drug use means that emissions are priced in accordance with the socio-economic cost of emissions. Norway, together with the EU, will work for good global solutions for both climate and aviation. Norway will continue to take an active part in the UN climate negotiations and in the World’s Organisation for Aviation, ICAO, in order to provide good solutions to address society’s need for efficient transport while addressing the climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e804	Thank you for your reply, which may indicate that the seriousness of the enquiry by the group leader of the still large Scandinavian air carrier SAS is not fully taken into account. It is gratifying that aviation itself and the companies, and in particular SAS, take into account the fact that there is an emission system and relate to it. What is announced in this fresh letter is a concern related to the change and deterioration of the emission regime that could result in a significant increase in costs, not only for the sender of the letter, the airline SAS, but for aviation in general. It is worrying — as the Government itself says — that aviation has an important role to play in maintaining housing and employment in all parts of Norway. Aviation is important for Norway. So we have to have action spaces and conditions that make it possible to operate aviation without it becoming too expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e811	I agree entirely with Mr Sortevik that aviation is more important for Norway than for many other countries. Because of our great distances and because we have a business that's spread all over the country, it's important that we maintain good services. I can't see that any allowance system should cause major system changes compared to what you have today through a one-sided Norwegian CO2 tax. An allowance system will apply to the entire European part of aviation and will clearly, if one is closed to such a system, also become an important basis for the next international climate negotiations. The objective must be, of course, that this will be global agreements that will avoid distortions of competition in different parts of aviation. What I've been busy about in this context is just to ensure that the pressures that may come are the most geographically comprehensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e821	I understand that SAS’s enquiry is just about that – that is, the concern that it can be both anti-competitive and extra-cost – when it comes to saying that it is going to change what has already been adopted the EU ETS Directive, to a system of 100 pst. auctioning for aviation allowances, which industry itself has an active programme to reduce its emissions in many different ways. I hope that, on the basis of the letter, the Council of State will have a discussion with both SAS and other airlines on the concerns raised by the group leader of SAS over a notified possible change and increase in costs associated with it, if the EU chooses a different regime for emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e828	As I said earlier, we are following developments in the EU closely in view of the potential impact of the change on aviation and airlines. It must also be assessed against the general environmental policy and developments in the general climate negotiations. We have regular meetings with the companies, where we can discuss them directly, and it is quite clear that this is a topic that will be discussed. As Minister of Trade, I am busy ensuring that both SAS and other companies have framework conditions that enable them to develop. I want to follow this carefully in the future and see what will be the outcome of the current discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e840	«In Mosul, Iraq's third largest city, there has recently been a wave of killings on Christians. The situation is now so serious that over 1,000 Christian families have fled the city because they fear for their lives. According to reports from the BBC, among other things, it suggests that there is a carefully planned action against the city’s Christians. Of course, relatives in Norway are dismayed and ask, ‘What can Norway do in this situation?’ What opportunities does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see for Norway to contribute — humanitarianly or otherwise?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e847	I would like to thank the representative Syversen for an important and, unfortunately, relevant question. We need to focus on the humanitarian situation in Iraq and not least on some of the most vulnerable groups – the many ethnic and religious minorities. In recent weeks, alarming information has come about an apparent systematic action against the Christian population in Mosul. This situation is closely followed by both the UN, international non-governmental organisations and Iraqi authorities. The persecution of the Christian population has been condemned by the UN Special Representative for Iraq, by the International Red Cross Committee and by the Iraqi Government. It's worth noting. The UN Special Representative in Iraq has stated that these attacks are planned, as the representative said, by groups wishing to make the situation unsafe nationally and increase the tensions during the critical period Iraq are heading towards the planned provincial elections. He has further stated that respect and guarantee for the political rights of minorities in Iraq are important for the democratic future and for the development of the country. It's this situation we as international support players have to contribute to dealing with. The government is concerned about how Iraq's minorities are being treated today and about the situation of the Christian Iraqis. There are also several minorities who are exposed. From the Norwegian side, we condemn the violence that has taken place lately in Mosul, and we take a clear distance from the killing and persecution of Christians in the country. Mosul is now described as Iraq's most dangerous city. That wasn't the case any time ago. The number of internally displaced persons in the areas concerned varies. The UN operates with 1,500 families, i.e. about 8 000 people. The UN states that there is a well-coordinated response between the High Commissioner, the IOM and the international voluntary organisation Mercy Corps. These three organisations are now responding to the humanitarian crisis of distributing food and other emergency aid to refugee families. In addition, the International Red Cross cooperates with the Iraqi authorities on emergency assistance to those in need in the area. Iraqi authorities themselves take the situation seriously and have sent help to the local authorities in the form of extra police and military forces to protect the Christian population. In this context, the measures taken by the Iraqi government to protect the population are a positive step. Let me also mention that this year Norway contributes about 75 million. humanitarian aid for Iraq and for Iraqi refugees in neighbouring countries. Support has been provided through the joint humanitarian appeal, the UN and through Norwegian and international organisations. In addition, Norway provides substantial support through the UN Emergency Aid Fund. So far this year is 12.5 million. kr of Norway’s contribution to the Fund channelled to Iraq. In the EU, the Commission wants to establish a resettlement programme for Iraqi refugees in European countries. In preparation for this, the Commission will, probably next month, in cooperation with the High Commissioner, send experts to Syria and Jordan to assess the situation of Iraqi refugees. EU countries are also invited to participate here. Norway is taking part in the initiative to see if we can also contribute through the EU. We see how violence today contributes to further ethnic and religious division in Iraq, which is a clear indication of how vulnerable the country will be in the coming time. This must be countered by strengthening the capacity of the central power in Iraq to perform these basic tasks, both in terms of security and well-being. State-building is a long-term project, and the Government will take various opportunities to address the situation with Iraqi authorities and to provide humanitarian assistance where we can. I would say that the special situation for Christians in Iraq will be the subject of a targeted contact from the Norwegian authorities to the Iraqi authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e868	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. While it has become safer both in Baghdad and in Basra, it is clear that the situation in Mosul is still very uncertain, and you can ask yourself to what extent the central authorities have control. Among other things, it is said that those who now face the systematic persecutions use police cars to retrieve Christians, possibly scare them from the city. This indicates that you don't have control at all. It is clear that sometimes people in one’s own community are affected who can tell us what relatives have to undergo in such a desperate situation. I am pleased that a direct contact will be made with the Iraqi authorities. I would like to ask whether developments in the situation are such that the Foreign Minister believes that there is progress to be made in this area. Or is it the opposite that's about to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e877	It has long been difficult to get a clear picture of the whole of Iraq. But I think we have to say, unfortunately, that this can be a taste of what can be expected in the recording of the so-called provincial elections to be held in 2009 – and there are areas that are so controversial that there is no holding of elections. So we have to expect that there will be great unrest as a result of the fact that there will be such an event as choice. It also shows how fragile the situation is in Iraq. It's true, as the representative Syversen says, that we have focused on Baghdad and Basra and believed that the Mosul region has been in a more peaceful position. So now it's cracking in a way that's outrageous. We have to follow this situation closely. We know that Iraq is negotiating with the United States on an agreement on the presence of the United States in Iraq over the next few years. It is also a contentious agreement that underlies a good part of what has now spread violence. And we know that the status given after the American ‘surgical’ — several soldiers — which is said to have brought the level of violence down to the military, is a very fragile construction. It is true that the violence against soldiers, military and Americans has fallen, but it is difficult to see that it has become a stabilized situation as a result. So we must be prepared for the situation in Iraq to go from still bad to worse, and it is a disturbing sign that it is now also affecting special groups, as we have seen with Christians.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e886	I just want to end by saying that from our side we are very pleased that direct contact is made, and I also hope that insofar as further Norwegian assistance is requested from the UN and the international aid organisations, which were also mentioned in the Foreign Minister's reply, it is a recommendation we will respond positively to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e891	Once again, I think it is a timely question to take up and focus on. I can confirm that we want to focus on it. As I said, our humanitarian commitment is quite extensive, and the situation that now arises for these groups in this region will obviously be something we will focus on as regards the leadership of our humanitarian efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e907	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e913	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: «The town of Kongswinger has again been taken over by the Defense as a welfare and recreation centre of the Defence veterans. This is good and something signed has been working for several years. The State budget does not mention any sum of the operations, but it is part of the common line of line of defence. Can the Council of State confirm that there will be enough money for the proper operation of Bæria?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e922	I am very concerned that the defence veterans are being protected in the best possible way, and that they get the follow-up they need. The defense therefore bought Bäreia on 1 June of this year in order to provide the veterans with a good welfare and recreation offer. From the acquisition, the veteran centre has been in nearly full operation. The centre is now used by both war veterans and their partners in life, as well as UN and NATO veterans. For the current year, there is a total of 18.2 million. kr to the Swedish Defence Center. Of these, 6 million. NOK 2 million. SEK is set aside for immediate measures for necessary structural improvements and SEK 10,2 million. kr to the ordinary operation of the Centre. The budget for 2009 continues to do so, and it is within the scope of the proposal for abrogation. 1720 Joint management and command equipment, reserved for approx. Sixteen million. kr for ordinary activities. This will ensure the proper operation of Bæria. In addition, an additional 2.9 million has been allocated. kr related to the necessary structural improvements. On Friday, October 17, this year, the Swedish Defence Center at Bæria was officially opened. I'm glad the defense has got its own veteran's centre, and we have now taken an important step in the right direction to improve the offer to the veterans. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the Government's proposals for the 2009 government budget, where efforts to strengthen the rights of the veterans are discussed in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e933	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret as a good and good answer. Now I'm not going to discuss whether the numbers are large or too small. I assume that this is what is needed for proper operation, and I support it. Otherwise, the said Council of State budget, and in the case of Bæria, it says: ‘and a plan for future use of the site is drawn up’. [[...]] It may then be appropriate to ask how far we have come to work on ‘a plan for future use of the site’. I assume that the Minister of Defense and the Chief of Defense and those who work on this matter already have a plan – that is, not just working on a plan, but that the plan is already there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e940	There are different plans here. On the one hand, it is about the rehabilitation and readjustment that must be made both by immediate and longer-term measures. It's one type of plan. And then that's the plan for the operation of the site itself. Now it has been, as I also said in my post, almost full operation since the place opened on 1 June. This is something that we're also going to work on. When there are any final future plans for the site, there is nothing wrong with making the questioner aware of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e947	Then my question is, does the Council of State believe and believe that all those who need help, and who have the capacity to apply for help, get help on Bæria? Is Bæria large enough to care for all those who need such a treatment site, a visit or whatever it might be? Or could it be that we need more places similar to Berea?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e952	It was a very important decision that was made when we decided to buy back Bæria and make a veteran's centre there, which was in line with the wishes of very many veterans. We are concerned that this place should be operated in a way that respects the rights and needs of our veterans. That's our goal. We have big plans for that, and there's no reason to believe that Bæria should not be able to meet those needs. This is one of a lot of measures, known to Stortinget, that the Ministry of Defence has now taken to ensure the veterans in a much better way than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e960	I have a question for the Minister of Defence: ‘When Regionfelt Eastland was established, one of the conditions was activity-free periods for people, outdoors, hunting interests and other land-based activities. At the same time, all restrictions on the Redsmoen shooting range were lifted. There is a potential germ to conflict, and predictability as to whether it is activity or not is gone. Will the Council of State take the initiative to review the challenges created by different rules of use in the two shooting areas, with a view to averting unnecessary conflicts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e969	The current emissions permit for the Eastern, Red Smoen and Rena clay regions lays down the conditions for non-operational periods. The emission permit also provides relatively strict noise limits. Conditions include holidays, holidays and night bans for special activities. This is consistent in several areas with the old Redsmoen emissions permit. It is therefore not true that all previous restrictions on the Red Smoen have been lifted. For the region field, a total of three months – 13 weeks – each year, with activity-free periods from St. Hans until 1 November. Seven weeks shall be spent during the summer holidays. This constitutes a significant restriction on military activity. Experience has shown that the restrictions are challenging in relation to the exercise needs of the Defence. The current and future operating patterns and requirements for officers and soldiers lead to the need for high-quality systematic training throughout the year. This is further reinforced by the changed indentation pattern for common crews. In this situation, it is important to have access to both the Redsmoen, the Dörningmoen and other shooting and practice fields during the activity-free periods for the region. The defence activity planning in Østerdal Garrison involves the preparation of annual, quarterly and weekly plans. Planned activities and determination of weeks of activity in the region field are routinely discussed in the Local Cooperation Council. This consists of Defence, Defence Building, relevant municipalities, local teams and organisations. Training activities are also announced in local press, on websites and per year. E-mail. In addition, an environmental watchphone has been set up to provide the public with information about their activities. This practice contributes to increased predictability of military activity in the municipalities and neighbouring municipalities. I refer to the Storting's treatment of the government's recently submitted long-term proposal for defence. The need for the future field of shooting and drill was identified in this context by the head of defence and reviewed by the Ministry of Defence in advance of the presentation of the proposition. As the use of the field of fire by the defence is in accordance with the applicable concession terms, I do not see the need for a re-examination of the provisions of the use of the two shooting areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e984	I thank you for the answer, but I am a little disappointed that the Minister of Defence does not see the need, because the intention when the Stortinget decided this was that there should be business-free periods. Now we get quite powerful signals from many teams, also from teams that I perceive understand the defence's need for exercises and that these are difficult balances that need to be made, something in particular to the Minister of Defence illustrated. However, it was a fairly clear premise when the Storting dealt with this in 1999, that there should be non-activity periods, and that is where the problem for the local population lies. If a helicopter departs from the Red Smoor or from the new shooting range, it doesn't matter – the noise is the same. So I really just want to encourage the Minister of Defense to at least go a little bit into the issue and see if there are other possible solutions here that can satisfy both parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e989	I have a great deal of understanding that you can experience activity from a shooting and training field as problematic in periods. But at the same time, I want to stress what I also said, that this is how the shooting grounds operate today, it's in line with the concession. Here, the Eastern Region has been given the long periods of non-activity, while the other shooting areas have less limitations, and this is entirely in line with the concession given. Then I would like to refer to the Cooperation Council which is in the municipalities in connection with Østerdal Garnison. It's in the forum you might be able to address your needs. But I also want to stress that the need for exercise activity in the Defense, and the requirement that is really also set by the Storting to exercise activity for our crews, makes us have to have available shooting fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e994	I understand that very much, and I would also like to point out that the defense does nothing wrong. It operates in line with the concession, and there is also a lot of contact between the defence and the local population. But I think the Minister of Defense will realize that this is going to be a difficult situation. On NRK Hedmark's websites today it says: Feels tricked by the Defense. I think it is important to stress that you are not deceived by the Defense, because the Defense operates after the concessions that are. But nevertheless, there is a difficult situation, and it can create unnecessary conflicts locally. I can only basically repeat the recommendation that here I think the Minister of Defence should be aware that if you do not address the issue, there can be more trouble and unnecessary noise quickly. As I said, I realize very clearly that the defence needs exercises, and I think that is what most people in the world see, but there is also a need for certain business-free periods.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1003	I am pleased that the representative Gundersen says that you are not deceived by the Defense. I feel that there is a great deal of understanding about the needs of the defense, because we operate everything according to the concession. At the same time, I would like to say that it must be important to address these issues in the Cooperation Council. I have regular meetings with the local authorities in the area when I visit the Defence Bases there, and I will take it with me to find out what the contact is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1018	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1024	‘The undersigned is aware that a young boy of 23 years has received Nav’s refusal to continue training after having suffered an occupational accident. He is currently absent. The reason given by Nav is that he has to wait until he is 26 years old. Does the Council of State consider this to be a proper and sensible interpretation of Nav, and does he further believe that such a practice contributes to giving the individual the dignity and quality of life that is desirable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1031	The information in question does not provide sufficient grounds for assessing the correct application of the legislation by the State of Employment and Welfare in the specific case. However, I can generally inform you that the right to return money is normally granted at the age of 19 and the right to return benefits at the age of 16. In order to be entitled to school benefits as a rehabilitation measure, one must, as a general rule, be up to 26 years of age. However, young people under the age of 26 who fulfil the conditions for vocational rehabilitation but who do not fulfil the conditions for entitlement to benefits during the whole or part of school have the right to be investigated, to draw up an action plan and to be followed up. The justification for having a special age limit for schooling as a follow-up measure is that education should be financed as a starting point through the ordinary education system and not above the population’sresponsibilities. Many are currently in an ordinary educational situation up to the age of 26. However, those who, for various reasons, have a specific need for qualification in the form of education should be able to do so. Therefore, exemptions from the age limit may be made for persons who are in a significantly different educational situation from that of other young people, provided that this is due to the disease, injury or hearing. It is the State of Employment and Welfare that makes the concrete assessment of whether a person is in a significantly different educational situation from that of other young people and whether the school in question can be considered necessary and appropriate in order to obtain an appropriate job. If there is disagreement in the assessment of the case by the establishment, the decision may be appealed in the usual manner. I also remind you that the Labour and Welfare Act manages a wide range of tools that can be used to get people to work, and that job-oriented measures can also be applicable to people who have been granted a disability pension. Schooling is the only measure that has the age limit of 26 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1042	I thank you for your answer. First of all, I want to correct myself: the person we are talking about here is the disability. The CatoCenter has the following opinion concerning this person: «We all wonder about NAV Vadsø's refusal to apply for vocational training in the form of education/studies. - In particular in the light of the fact that this is a professional injury, where the victim is usually quickly helped into a form of activity that they can master. Rich and burdensome medical evidence supports the user’s recovery plan/demand, which for us appears to be both realistic and within normal cost frameworks.’ Furthermore, it is recommended that the person concerned follow up the case, and that the insurance company Storebrand investigates the costs of an initial school year in Oslo until the case finds its natural solution. Is it the case that insurance companies in Norway are going to take over the role of Nav, or is it possible to have a different type of interpretation than the one shown here?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1058	As my first answer clearly demonstrates, it is possible to have a different interpretation in individual cases than what has been the conclusion in this case, but I cannot say, on the basis of the information I have, whether this case is misinterpreted or not. It is therefore possible to arrive at a different conclusion, because there is an exception based on the actual situation of the individual applicant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1063	I thank you for your answer. If desired, the State Council may obtain all documentation on the matter from the undersigned. I believe that it would be much better and more appropriate, both for the individual and for the socio-economic community, to actually instruct the Nav offices so that this type of case can be avoided in the future. It must be better, as I see it, that young people who want it come back to work through vocational training than they passively sit and grow old.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1072	Yes, the purpose of both the activities that have previously been in the labour market and in the social security system, and not least what is to be done now through the reorganization of Nav, is precisely to help people get back to work. Then there is some of the funding of the different measures that have different bases, and there is a need for an ordinary educational situation to be assessed as a normal educational situation, and that the social security should not be an alternative to it. But for very special cases, exemptions from the age limit of 26 can be made. I don't think it would be right if we were to conduct a specific case handling of individual cases in Stortinget. However, the legislation makes it possible, when appropriate, to choose other solutions for those under the age of 26 in terms of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1084	This question, from the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1087	‘An article in the Tidens Requirement of 10 October found that the hospital in Kristiansund has major problems with ready-to-print patients living in the municipality of Kristiansund. This leads, among other things, to the now well-known phenomenon of corticosteroids, etc. When one in the same article is also made aware that the same municipality has fewer hospital beds now than one year ago, this puts the government's seniority in a strange light. Are the councils satisfied with the situation in the municipality of Kristiansund?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1094	The representative of Nesvik addresses the situation in Kristiansund and the relationship between the hospital and the municipal services. The objective of healthcare is to provide all patients with the right treatment at the right level. In a continuous treatment chain, this implies that all stages must be dimensioned to provide patients with the services they need. This also applies to the number of care places in municipalities. In my opinion, lack of overallity and coordination may be the biggest challenge in healthcare. Municipal health and specialist health services do not function as a continuous treatment chain. A lot of good interaction takes place despite the system. Good systems must be created throughout the treatment chain, so that we avoid unnecessary hospitalisation, so that we get rid of the corridor patients, and that ready-to-print patients get a good offer outside the hospital. We are working, as the representative is familiar with, with a new health reform – the interaction reform – where interaction is due to the system. In the interaction project, we will look at funding systems, legislation, organisation, communication and electronic interaction. With regard to the government's contribution to the municipal care service, I would like to show that the real growth in municipal income from 2005 to 2009 has increased by more than NOK 28 billion. We see that the municipalities give priority to care services. Among other things, we are almost in the target of getting 10,000 new annual works. But we still have major challenges. There are more elderly, new user groups and shortages of caregivers, to name a few. This is why the 2015 Health Plan Government has taken more steps to strengthen the competence, capacity and quality of municipal care services. In its 2009 draft government budget, the government has followed up the care plan with 235 million. kr. In this context, I would like to emphasise in particular that it is proposed to provide commitments to 1000 new nursing homes and homes, with a total state allocation of approximately 500 million. kr over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1107	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, I fully understand that it may be difficult to follow the case further, as it is not this Council of State's office, but I will try the following: we are familiar with the interaction reform and really look forward to the interaction reform. There is something that has been requested, and that I very much appreciate the fact that State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen will now work with. The problem is that this interaction reform does not come to the Grand Council at all in this period, but perhaps in the autumn of 2009, perhaps in the spring of 2010 – all because the Council of State is sitting or not, or there is a new Council of State that can do this work. My question to the Council of State is this: when we look at the situation in the municipality of Kristiansund, when we know that the subsidy for new health care places is NOK 600,000, i.e. approx. 25 pst. of the costs of setting this up, is the Council of State still certain that it should not be included with earmarked grants, in order to ensure patients in the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1116	It is true that I do not have the constitutional responsibility for this area on a daily basis, but I have nevertheless allowed myself to look at the situation in the municipality of Kristiansund. So I can do that in a general perspective, where it is that when we ask the municipalities, or we check the KOSTRA numbers, it turns out that when the municipality gets free resources, the efforts in the care sector are increasing – as I said in my first answer. But when I look at the municipality of Kristiansund, it turns out that there is a municipality that in several of the areas that measure the quality of care is actually above the national average. In the case of heads per cent. the population used for care purposes is Kristiansund above the national average. In terms of medical coverage, they are above the national average and, in terms of number of single rooms, they are above the national average. Kristiansund is one of the municipalities that have tried for many years to have a good care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1123	At least it is good to hear that the former government of Kristiansund has made sure that it is well covered. The problem is that you can read in the Requirements of Time that the situation has only deteriorated dramatically in the last year, and that after the Workers' Party took back the government in Kristiansund. We also see that one of Kristiansund's challenges in budgetary terms is that they are now going to go in and cover tens of millions of dollars, precisely because you're really bad out there. The patient who was used as a basis for my question here has been in Kristiansund Hospital for two months, before he now, after this question has been raised, has finally been informed that she would then be given a hospital. I'm very concerned about the situation we're looking at in Kommune-Norway. My question to the Council of State is this: This government has been talking about this interaction reform for over three years. Why does it take so long before action is taken, when you started talking about it three years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1134	A wide range of measures have been put in place to strengthen the finances of municipalities and to build new health homes and care places. I am pleased with the commitment that it is followed up at the municipal level. But now I am familiar with the fact that the representative Nesvik is actually a member of the local government in Ålesund. If one compares Ålesund and Kristiansund, then Kristiansund and Ålesund have exactly the same coverage for that type of place for people over 80 years. But it's like Kristiansund has better medical coverage for those places than what Ålesund has. Kristiansund has a bigger bet in dollars for the people we're talking about here than what Ålesund has. It's 10.2 a.m. per year. 1000 places in Kristiansund, and that's 8.2 in Ålesund. Kristiansund spends more money than Ålesund in activating older people over 67 years of age. So it's possible to do something through municipal policy. It also has the opportunity in Ålesund to get up on Kristiansund's level.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1141	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the undersigned is a staggering representative in this Chamber, and that the Council of State should comply with it. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1166	These questions have been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1172	‘In the ‘French industrial power model’, industry acquires power for self-sufficiency through a ‘virtual’ ownership of the power, but at the same time it has to be opened up to invest in new power generation with a corresponding volume of power. In Norway, hydropower is most likely to fill such a model with sufficient power and acceptable prices. However, the Soria Moria Declaration excludes new large hydropower projects. Will the Council of State change this position if it ensures that the French model can also function in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1179	The government is very concerned about the conditions of the power-intensive industry in Norway. The government is working towards a long-term and competitive framework for this industry. The basis for the Government's action against this power-intensive industry is a good balance of power, the ability to enter into long-term commercial contracts and the good terms and conditions of the industry on grid rental, the exemption or reduction of electricity charges and the support schemes of Enova. In total, this provides a good framework for the power-intensive industry in Norway. In France, power-intensive industries have merged into a purchasing consortium. The Norwegian industry and trade movement have highlighted the importance of the purchasing consortium in France. For the France Purchasing Consortium, the authorities have contributed to the organisation, while the power-intensive companies have taken responsibility for all commercial aspects. The specific price model or other commercial conditions are not publicly available as they have been negotiated commercially between Exeltium and EdF. As far as I am aware, the authorities have had no role in such matters. The government welcomes the establishment by industry of a purchasing consortium for power-intensive industry in Norway. We will actively organise the consortium by providing grants to the power-intensive companies involved. The grant shall have a function similar to that of the tax advantages granted to the companies participating in the consortium in France. This will include, inter alia: state that the aid shall be within the scope of EEA legislation. For the Government, the overall objective is to facilitate secure and efficient energy supply with acceptable prices for households and industry. We have given high priority to the work on making the Norwegian power supply less vulnerable. A large proportion of industry's power needs are ensured by long-term commercial contracts. That's good. I believe that such agreements must be the cornerstone of the strength of industry. In this context, the Government has clear objectives and expectations for the state's own power company, Statekraft, in the biggest communication on ownership policy. By 2020 is over 80 pst. – and there is a high figure – of the power consumption of the power-intensive industry covered by these commercial power agreements, power on government terms or own power generation. The government is targeted at an efficient energy use in Norwegian industry, and Enova’s energy conversion and energy production activities are an important part of this work. Norwegian Industry and Enova have recently established a cooperation agreement to make industry more energy efficient and to increase the use of renewable energy sources. For the period 2001–07, Enova has provided total aid to industry worth about half a billion kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1200	It is striking that the Council of State does not respond to the question, namely the hydropower situation, and how the Government will facilitate it. The agreement and the system in France, i.e. the creation of a kind of quasi-market, have been made possible because the EU has said that as long as there is also an element of security of supply in this package, it is OK. That means that at the other end you have to open up a new force equivalent to what goes into the consortium model. I did not register that the Council of State said this was wrong, and he did not say that earlier when I asked written questions about it. Ergo: I understand that reality. It is then time to get away from the rhetoric and the review and to deal with what is one of the real issues here: how authorities should organise this consortium model to be valid in Norway according to EU requirements. Then again the question is: Will the Council of State make it possible to deploy new hydropower, if necessary, to make a consortium model work in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1209	Yes, I want to facilitate new hydropower expansion. Now we see that luckily a lot is happening on that front. There is a sum of hydroelectric build-ups under the definition of small power that provide a significant supply of electricity/electricity into the Norwegian market. This means that the possibility and basis for forming these long-term contracts and having a security for industry and for consumers related to energy supply are greater than they would otherwise have been. So the answer to the question is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1214	I registered in the media that the Council of State has called for small-scale power. I want small power well, and I also want small power to be part of a green licence market, as opposed to what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. But the industry cannot rely on us to deploy 1 000-1 500 small power plants to secure the power supply. I also do not think that the government partners of the Council would suggest that one should deploy 1 000–1,500 new small power plants in Norway to meet this target. We know the government is going to protect the Wefsna. And then we're talking about a larger hydropower project that doesn't provide new interference in protected areas, where it's not about a new uproar, but that gives 1.5 TWh with good, new current, which is probably about about. one tenth of what you need in such a consortium. Then I have to ask: will the Council of State facilitate the development of a slightly larger hydropower plant than the 1, 2, 3, 4 MW small power plants, so that a realistic solution can be found to the power demand of a consortium model?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1221	In terms of what is defined as slightly larger hydropower projects, the projects that we have to consider on a case-by-case basis for the purpose of concession treatment are. At the same time, I do not agree that only major projects are important for industry. The development of 1.5 TWh linked to the Weftsna, or the expansion of 1.5 TWh linked to many small power plants, which are often also controlled by Statkraft, is the sum of energy that becomes available, in particular through the Statkraft system, but in practice through the Norwegian market, which is important for Norwegian industry. I think the sum of many small projects is just as important as the sum of one big one.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1231	‘More than three years have passed since the ‘Fjord Champion’ fell outside Search in West Agder, but in this state budget too, money has been better prepared along the south coast. People are now asking if a new serious accident must happen before better preparedness is in place. Leakage from one of the many oil tanks passing through Skagerrak will cause severe pollution. Towboat rentals are granted to North Norway, but the traffic in Skagerrak is much larger. I also asked about the same case in regular Question Time on March 21, 2007. When will the Council of State take South Africa's preparedness seriously?'
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1238	First, I want to thank you for the question. Good oil protection, including towing boat preparedness, is important for the entire coast of Norway. In order to meet this challenge, the Government has since 2007 implemented a general strengthening of oil protection throughout the coast. The 2008 budget granted an increase of 25 million. kr for this purpose. Furthermore, in the 2009 budget, the Government has proposed a further 88 million increase in oil protection. kr. The national towing boat stand for South Norway is based on existing available resources. In North Norway there is a shortage of tugboats with sufficient towing capacity. It is on this basis that a state tug boat stand was established in the region. Traffic of risk loads, from among others North-West Russia, is increasing. It has therefore been important to ensure an accessible towing boat stand in this region. However, the main weight of ship traffic along the coast of Norway is in South Norway. This area also has greater access to vessels with towing capacity than is the case for North Norway. This is in addition to the fact that the Defence through the Inner Coast Guard has stationed the vessel ‘Norway’ in the Skagerrak area. I remember that the Coast Guard works have access to operate a tugboat if a vessel is in distress. The coastal works may also require the captain to pull on board within the territorial boundary. With the help of the AIS, the Coast has a good overview of available towboat resources along the coast. Towing gear must also be assessed in relation to other instruments used in the prevention of maritime safety. As explained in the questionnaire on 21 March 2007, the Coastal Authority has established AIS along the coast. It is a system that ensures automatic ship identification. It is an important instrument in a comprehensive oil protection system. As I said, the government prioritises the work on a strengthened oil protection preparedness. We have already reinforced oil protection work in general and will continue to assess the need for further action in the future state budgets. As part of this work, the towing boat stand is also evaluated on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1259	I thank you for the answer, even though it was not very specific about South Norway. It is, as mentioned, and as also mentioned by the Council of State, dense ship traffic in Skagerrak. Previous measurements show an average of more than 40 cargo ships and 18 tankers per. 24 hours, both from the North Sea and from the Baltic Sea. Coastal dwellers and employees in the Coastal Works are still very concerned and frustrated by the lack of a day-to-day towing boat, because that is what this is about. What concrete action will the Council of State now take to improve the towing boat preparedness on the Agder coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1266	When we spend money on the annual budgets, we need to assess the needs of the existing resources and other preventive maritime safety measures. We have assessed that the most important thing to get in place now is the replacement of equipment in the oil protection pots. We have set up new fairways in the north and are now working to get shipowners further off the coast also in the south. Then there is a sense that although there is no government preparedness in the south, there are many more private resources available that can be recovered in an emergency, unlike the situation in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1273	I thank you for that follow-up. I still did not hear any concrete promises about this. Political adviser in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast John Erik Pedersen said to the regional newspaper Fädrelandsvenn earlier in October that it is working with better preparedness, but he could not make any concrete promises. The study on coastal preparedness is far too far-reaching. I ask again: can the Council of State now show political will and give promises to Agder about a progress plan, and not lean on private initiative, but actually an up-to-date towboat preparedness? Or do I have to take this question up again already next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1280	I do not think this is the opportunity to distribute money or go into detail on what concrete measures the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will put in place in relation to oil protection and maritime safety work, in addition to what has been presented in the 2009 budget. However, it is clear that the needs and assessments made about the tugboat to the South will be part of the work ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-22.ana.ud2284e1285	Today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
