ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26-lower.ana.ud998e39	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a succession of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It'll be looked upon as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26-lower.ana.ud998e48	There is an overall committee behind this proposal, which involves a legislative amendment to allow transitional arrangements from the general rule in force for the distribution of profits from Norwegian Typing until the entry into force of a new key from 1 January 2009. The proposal is a follow-up to the previous Stortingen decision to secure further revenues for the socially useful and humanitarian organisations that had previously set up ATMs, and which from 1 July 2007 until new key enters into force have no income from either vending machines or Norwegian Typing. The Committee has noted that the last six months of 2007 and the whole of 2008 will be a transitional period during which no automatic receipts from Norwegian Typing will be generated, pending the launch of the new type of vending machines. The Committee refers to the previous decision of the Storting to compensate for the loss of revenue of these organisations during this transitional period, as stated. Ot. pp. No 44 for 2002-2003. The Committee refers to St.meld. No 39 for 2006-2007, Freewill for all, where the Government outlined a transitional model in which these organisations will be allocated a total of DKK 1 billion in 2008 and 2009, financed using funds from Norsk Typing’s investment fund. Furthermore, reference is made to the proposal, where the Government proposes to amend the law so that, in addition to the normal distribution of the Norwegian Typing surplus in 2007, a separate allocation can be made to the social and humanitarian organisations of the increase in the Norwegian Typing surplus in 2007. Preliminary forecasts show that this can add an amount of 150 million to organisations. kr. Total compensation could thus amount to 500 million. SEK to be paid in 2008. The Committee supports this. The government assumes that the 2009 Norwegian Typing surplus will allow existing beneficiaries to maintain their level of subsidies even after the introduction of a new key. The Stortinget has made an important decision to abolish the slot machine market and also to introduce Norwegian Tipping monopoly in this field. It's a right decision, with the aim of placing out less aggressive slot machines and hopefully getting less gambling as a result of it. Then it is also important that the Storting take these steps to mitigate the financial impact on those organisations that had income from vending machines. A minority in the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left propose that the Storting should be presented with an annual report on the economic situation in Norwegian Typing. The Labour Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party do not want to use resources on this. We would rather spend the most money on volunteering in this country and the minimum amount of money on reporting. This is no matter what information the Storting can ask for at any time, if the situation requires it. At this stage, the majority of the Committee cannot see that this is the correct use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26-lower.ana.ud998e67	As will be seen from the setting, the Progress Party is skeptical about distributing as much money as up to 150 million. to social and humanitarian organisations without direct influence by the Storting on who receives these funds. We have been able to hold relatively significant budgetary debates in this Chamber on much smaller amounts. We notice that there is a view that we stand alone about. As far as Norwegian Typing is concerned, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, as mentioned by the case-rapporteur, have made a proposal in the vote asking the Government to come to Stortinget with an annual report on the economic situation in Norwegian Typing. I record that the case rapporteur and the majority believe that this is the wrong resource use. We believe that Norsk Tipping is such a large company that manages so large and important social interests that it will be important for the Storting to look at the business more in the cards. Norwegian Typing is a significant social actor and is also becoming even stronger in the future, following the monopoly decisions taken in this room. Norwegian Typing is central to, among others. Our cultural sector and our sports sector, and it's natural that the Storting wants to have a hand on the wheel. Nor has it been long since significant issues were raised when it came to the economy and management of the company. So from the minority we want to get a report on investments, expenses, profits, etc. to Stortinget annually. With this, I would like to refer to the comments in the vote and address the proposal that it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26-lower.ana.ud998e78	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26-lower.ana.ud998e81	In 2003, large organisations in Norway participated in a large-scale effort. After the clip boxes of the Red Cross and the Rescue Company had to pay for the loss of modern electronics in the 1990s, the machines gave more and more expensive money in the box for several thousand Norwegian sports teams and organisations. The social problems that arose in the cold water of the vending machines were not acceptable to anyone. Volunteering and Stortinget agreed that the machines would be removed, and that the voluntary organisations would receive income from the profits from Norsk Tipping. From 1 July 2007, the machines were removed, but the revenue generated by the new game terminals will not be too complete until 2010. For organisations, the loss of income is serious. Without a transitional arrangement, they will have to make large and important offers and go to employee redundancies. I appreciate the fact that the Committee supports the Government's proposal to make a specific allocation in 2008 from Norwegian Tipping's profits to organisations that had automatic receipts in 2001. In St.meld. No 39 for 2006-2007, Freewill for all, the Government suggests that the Norwegian Typing surplus increase from 2006 to 2007 would amount to EUR 150 million. SEK for payments to organisations in 2008. It could be that this amount is going to be even higher. In 2009 we will be able to pay another 650 million. to the organisations. In total, the funds from the investment fund in 2008 and 2009 amount to DKK 1 billion, 1 billion voluntary. These means mean that the Cancer Association does not have to stop its work of mourning, that the Blind Alliance can continue to train in Braille, and that people at sea can still feel confident that the rescuers will come to their rescue if they are in distress at sea. Specific guidelines shall be laid down for the allocation of funds to the former automation organisations in 2008. The Ministry is already developing these guidelines. The members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party have made proposals to assist organisations which, for various reasons, have not had automatic receipts, but have not brought the rest of the Committee to this effect. I would like to remind you that the grassroots regime for which the government parties have joined will be able to benefit all social and humanitarian organisations, including those who have not had automatic income. The grassroots fraction will assume that those who play the Norwegian Typing game will be able to choose that a portion of the bet they pay will go directly to the player's choice. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have made proposals to ask the Government to come to the Stortinget each year with a report on the economic conditions of Norwegian Tipping. The Ministry will ask the Norwegian Tipping Board to carry out a review and cost analysis of the operation of the company using external forces. Such a review makes sense from time to time for all companies and institutions that manage funds on behalf of the community, and is not an expression of the fact that the financial management of Norwegian Typing is not sound, but an expression of our desire for the most efficient operation of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26-lower.ana.ud998e96	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26-lower.ana.ud998e104	The odelsting shall then vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26-lower.ana.ud998e112	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to come to Stortinget with an annual report on the economic situation in Norwegian Typing. ‘... The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26-lower.ana.ud998e158	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26-lower.ana.ud998e168	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-26-lower.ana.ud998e189	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
