ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e140	It is a unanimous committee that wishes to incorporate Directive 2006/68/EC into the EEA Agreement. The Directive deals with the formation of public limited-liability companies and the maintenance and alteration of their capital. The Committee points out that the aim of the Directive is to make it easier for public limited-liability companies to implement capital-related arrangements, thereby increasing the competitiveness and efficiency of companies, without jeopardising the protection of minority shareholders and creditors. By allowing for simplified procedures and greater flexibility in the capital-related arrangements of public limited-liability companies, the Directive could help to make European public limited-liability companies more robust and, at the same time, strengthen European business. The Committee notes that the Directive focuses mainly on private legal entities. The Directive initiates a review and assessment of possible changes to the relevant provisions of the Share Act and the General Share Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e151	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1611]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e167	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation in this matter. The equity compensation scheme is the Storting’s own scheme in which individuals who have come out in particular accidentally may apply for a discretionary compensation for it. The scheme is based on custom and is not specifically regulated by formal rules. We've been getting an increased number of things in recent years that have been waiting for treatment in the samples, here in the house. This has been an unfortunate situation, because many then had to wait too long for decisions in their case. We got a significant increase in cases when the Stortinget expanded the system in connection with the compensation scheme for war children, romanists and cohabitants who have become educationally ill. It is therefore gratifying that we now see that the number of cases dealt with is greater than the number of applications. The reason for this is that in 2007, there have been two sample sizes of activities throughout the year, while in 2006 there was only one sample size. Samples processed a total of 2,244 cases and paid a total of 134 million. kr. We've now got another sample in operation, so we're now going to build up the remainder. The committee is very pleased with that. In connection with the creation of sample No. 2 felt that there was reason to look at the future organisation of the scheme. This view is supported by both the Government and the Committee. There is reason to consider whether the scheme should include groups other than those that are currently granted extended access. There is also reason to consider the place of this scheme in relation to the general welfare schemes. So the review should also have a principle approach. Finally, the proposal submitted has a single case, in which it is proposed to provide compensation of NOK 300000. This is 100000 above the amount of the mandate for the samples and must therefore be dealt with in the plenary session. The applicant has stated a number of reasons for his difficult situation, and the Committee supports the proposal to provide compensation of NOK 300000. The Committee therefore recommends that the Stortinget support the proposal submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e182	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 3 and 4 are dealt with as a whole and consider it to be adopted. [[Fooding, see page 1611]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e211	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e220	The most comprehensive proposal in the case of the ageing of the current year's budget is the increase in the allocation to the police. We have had a wide-ranging debate on the budget in Stortinget, where the balancing proposal was also duly discussed. I should therefore just like to make a few brief comments on the proposal. We are facing a demanding manning situation in the police. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party, have underlined that this situation has evolved over time. There are several governments who have to take responsibility for this situation, not least because there have been too few students at the Police College over time. The red-green government has taken important steps to meet the manning challenge. We received the report Police 2020, which shows that there is a need for 3,700 more police officers by 2020. Over the years we've been running, we've actually strengthened the police budget by over 800 million. kr. We have introduced important reforms for the police, such as the DNA-rephobe. We're about to remove the reconciliation queue, which also means that the police are getting more resources because you don't have to spend a lot of resources transporting custody prisoners over long distances. And not least, we have a record increase in high school police students. We've more than doubled the number of students since we took over. During this period we train almost 650 more students than the previous government did. It is obvious that there will be an important contribution to resolving the police situation. Nevertheless, we saw that several police districts reported challenging budgetary frameworks. This is a situation that the majority takes very seriously. I have recorded that the members of both the opposition and the position spend a lot of time having a dialogue with the police organizations, with the police and traveling around and visiting the police districts. I think that's very positive. It's a very important part of the job we have as agents and justice politicians. Through the meetings we've had with Police Norway, we've also got a good picture of the challenges you're facing. So we're increasing the police budget by 52 million. kr the current year. This increase comes to the top of the increase in police force and means that in 2008, the police have received a real increase of 365 million. kr. Important steps have been taken to solve the police challenges, as I said. Their main needs are more trained police officers. This will solve over time. There is also a need for more civilian positions in the police. It is therefore gratifying that next year's budget will provide room for 250 new posts in the police force. The Minister of Justice has engaged in dialogue with the police organisations, including: to discuss the needs identified by the 2020 Police Office. I recorded in yesterday's Business day that the leader of the Joint Association of Police, Arne Johannessen, was very positive about the dialogue and had good faith that good solutions were to be found in common. What is important, first of all, is to get the measures in place and have a good dialogue around them. In the case of the budgetary procedure: what next year's budget provides room for, and the budgetary process goes on. Obviously, as we increase the number of students at the Police College as much as we do, it will also require increased budgets in the future. Finally, for dialogue: we need a review of organisation and operational structure. It is very worrying when we see that in the last ten years we have had an increase in the police of 25 p.m. in the number of annual jobs, almost 3000 jobs, of which 800 are police. Nevertheless, the feedback goes that there is fewer in active service than there has been in the past. The review now being carried out is important in order to find solutions in this area. I record that the opposition requires organisational changes to be implemented immediately. I think it's unwise. Firstly, I think we need to wait for the outcome of the dialogue. This is not least about having respect for organisations, for organisations’ recordings and for the current process. Secondly, I believe that part of at least the larger steps, proposed by both the Police Joint Union and others, will require a anchoring perhaps as much local policy as in the same department. I want to invite the opposition further into a dialogue on the challenges we face in terms of the police and the process we are now involved in. I think that'll be important. I hope that in this debate we too can have a constructive debate on the challenges we face. Finally, the case rapporteur for the rescue helicopter case will inform you about it in an article later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e250	We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e253	I want to start by giving some praise to the Government for the focus they can hold on the rescue service. It's positive that we've got a base in place in the West. It is also very positive that all bases are now being guarded and that a doctor is becoming a permanent part of the operative crew. It should be commended by the Government, but it should almost only be lacking, for it is a follow-up to the Storting decision of 16 May 2002. But the opposition can't always just give praise, and so I won't. In 2002, a decision was also taken to: ‘Since today’s fleet of rescue helicopters has become very old, the Committee asks that these phases be phased out by 2008, if production is feasible.’ So six and a half years have gone by without them being renewed, and we don't know when a final decision will come. It's not just this government that should blame it. The Bondevik II government is also involved in this and has its share of responsibility. But it is now time for today's government to take up the matter and put forward the proposals for decisions needed to renew this fleet. It is important for the emergency response to be provided by the rescue services. With regard to operational responsibilities on the new base of the West, a political approach has been taken to ensure that the defence operates in this direction. We now have many civil operators who are very skilled in the field, and which I see with great advantage could have operated this. We now have a monopoly. And I'm very sceptical about monopolies, whether they're private or public, but public monopolies are probably not preferable to private ones. A private operator has experience and what is needed to get to grips with this and do the job in a good way. I will also refer to St.meld. No 44 for 2000–2001, which was actually promoted by the government of Stoltenberg. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘The defence should not provide assistance to civil society where the tasks can equally be solved by voluntary or commercial actors or where this could distort commercial interests.’ In this way, it could be in their place that we got civil operators into this area as well. So a little bit back to the helicopters and their renewal. In the situation we are now, it turns out that the maintenance costs of the helicopters are 75 pst. of the total operating costs per year. flytime. This is starting to get worrying. So we spend so much on maintenance that we could have replaced the helicopters and got new ones, which would also make the service much better. So the Advance Party will strongly urge the Government to submit as soon as possible tenders for new rescue helicopters so that the rescue services can have the operational tool they will have – along with crews – and can do what they need to do to save lives, often at second notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e276	Right shall be correct: the Government has taken a significant lift to strengthen the rescue helicopter service. Therefore, an overall committee has commended the Government for the presence of a doctor in all rescue stations. However, from the Right, we are concerned that the process of acquiring new rescue helicopters is drawing out in time. The continuous extension of the life span of the rescue helicopters may have serious consequences because important on-board equipment is in the process of being out-of-date. We will therefore stress the importance of the proper functioning of equipment and resources, although the lifetime of helicopters needs to be extended. The right has previously addressed the equipment situation of the 330 square. In the case of rescue operations, there are major problems in making today's heat-seeking cameras work. Rescue services are often performed in extreme weather situations with very low daylight levels, and lack of functional equipment may result in complex operations and unnecessary danger to human life. In this context, I refer you to the Right proposal in the 2009 budget, where we ask the Government to come back with proposals for a temporary solution to the problems of lack of equipment in helicopters, at the latest in the revised national budget for 2009. I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment in this particular matter. So to the situation in the police. There is little doubt that the police in the country are struggling with serious crew shortages, and police authorities are faced with very tough priority challenges on a daily basis in relation to the tasks to be undertaken and the tasks to be entrusted. What's going on is that typical police stuff, like that. Drug and public order disorders, many of them now show a clear decline because the police simply do not have the capacity to do this. In addition, police and surveyors openly admit that prevention is what may suffer most from today’s resource situation. The service to the audience is not the same as it should be. It is not obvious that the police have the capacity to follow-up crimes and enquiries from the public. It is estimated that about 410 vacancies are available in police districts this autumn, which according to several police officers are necessary to get the operating budgets to go around. New working time rules from 1 July last year for operational resources were abolished, without any concrete countermeasures being put in place at the time. In the new year, new ATB will come for the police lawyers, who will silence the police for important prosecution capacity – even this time without any explanation as to how to resolve this situation when it is now introduced in a few weeks’ time. It is not reassuring that much of the operational police service in the weekends today depends on policemen working overtime, and it is worrying that one of the pillars of security and security in society seems to be largely an overtime based system. The right interprets it as a clear admission when the Government finally grants additional funds that can improve the operational situation somewhat in the police districts. The problem is that it comes in overtime, so late in the year that it is probably not yet distributed and distributed to the police districts. So when you say that this is going to help in 2008, it's almost hard to take seriously. The problem is that 52 million. kr is very close enough to solve the problems that are actually out there. After all, 27 police districts are allocated this small amount of money in relation to the tasks ahead. And if you take seriously the reason that's come for these 52 million. I do not know if it is possible to see that this is fresh money that will help to improve the operating situation outside – when there are costs already incurred – that this is to compensate for additional costs resulting from multiple passports, more expensive biometric passports and more violent alarms and their maintenance. In any case, it is important to stress that there are only long-term, larger operating budgets for the police that can create the predictability necessary to plan, remand and get a police service that is in line with the tasks actually assigned by this house and by others who have expectations for the police. Right-wing thinks there's a need for a bigger police lift. There is a need for a greater focus on new civil positions, and there is a greater need to focus more on the seniors. Then, senior measures must also become senior measures for all seniors in the police, and not as we hear now, there is a tendency for police officers to be offered senior measures. I would like the Council of State to have had the same focus on action within the police, as he has on action in the field of settlement, but that remains to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e297	I also think it is very gratifying that the rescue helicopter service is strengthened, as it is built up. It's not all budget battles that anyone wins, but others can win them, and it's nice for the country. It gets a little weird when the opposition describes that there was no progress in helicopters, because I know a lot more about that. The Storting knows that too. The Bondevik II government operated on the assumption that we should have the right to acquire the NH90. If you're going to acquire the NH90, you're going to have to have a clearance with ESA. That line was followed. Then the new government has chosen a different regime. It has put this out for tender, as the Progress Party was all the time. New rules of the game are then established. I'm just going to be careful to say that I'm assuming that the government has an overview that that process is going really well. When it has been possible in the justice sector by different governments to get both emergency networks and heavy prisons in Halden, everyone understands that we need helicopters that work. It's in the structure itself. I'm just going to pay attention to how important it is -- not because I think someone doesn't mean it, but because it might be okay that it's said from the Great Britain's pulpit when someone's trying to make an impression on the Ministry of Finance in hard and heavy budgeting rounds. As for the situation in the police, I'm going to stick to the invitation from the representative Bjørnflaten. I think it's really good that the government is now in a dialogue with police organizations to get a common reality description. I think it is good to look independently of the struggle for wages and salaries at the actual operating situation in the police. Because there is no doubt that it can be challenging in many places. Then I noticed it in the posts of the representative, Bjørnflaten, about the number of new policemen who have arrived. It goes on subjects I've taken up earlier in this room, and actually before that time too, that there are too many career paths in the police that recruit away from the street, into an office and up the system. We simply do not have enough career paths and skills building systems for those who are going to be foot soldiers. Having it is important, and I noticed that the Council of State has now said that it is one of the issues he is taking into account in the dialogue he has with the police organisations. I would like to stress that it is important. In order to give status and position to do the job that everyone in this room wants to participate in the debate, a career path and new skills must be built. Then there are two possibilities of progress there is agreement, but on which there has to be great emphasis. One is to insert civilians. I myself have said in the past that 40 civilians can, placed right, strengthen the law in Oslo by 40, because it frees the people who are currently sitting in court completely unnecessary, and it frees people who do practical tasks. There is a grip that can have a targeted effect, and that I only leave to those who have the power and the ability to manage the budget. Then there's another thing, and that's senior policy. I have to admit that I have been a little troubled by what I read about the project that was in Hordaland – not because it was a project on senior policy, because it was positive, but it was left a certain impression that if you were a lieutenant and a leader, you would get a good life forward in the building, but if you were part of a working basic plan, it was not really money for this. It's a wrong signal. It must be possible to make a shiny good project one place, which does not draw the big money, but where everyone in the police who wants to do a job feels welcome when they want to continue beyond the age limits. In the case described in the media, a person with long experience from an operating centre was involved. People know how important it is to know such centres and people you should be in touch with and know. Everyone knows that it's a competence that's important, but I'm not going to go further into individuals. So it's the other people with competence, people I've met in this city and elsewhere, who are actually active in the order service. It is clear that they are more expensive in operation than anyone else, because they have built up wages for some years. But you world how important they are, because they have the competence that they can be mentors and role models for everyone else who needs to be there. I think you should be systematic in terms of senior policy, and let it expand and get a push. Personally, I wanted to see it as the Christmas message when policemen not only fight to get off at the age limit, but almost ask to continue. It's a cultural breakthrough that you should just grab and accept and use as best you can. I also noticed that Arne Johannessen, who in the public room is very clear with all his demands, not quite still, but clearly enough a few years ago said he wanted an active senior policy. So going into it is one of the measures that can clear up space for what someone calls police force, i.e. police trained people who can be available in many places. It was invited to make contributions, and then I think you have to be constructive – and this is the constructive time of year, when peace soon sinks over our minds. These were my practical contributions, and I hope that those who are now listening to it will take it with them and make the best of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e312	First of all, with regard to the rescue helicopter service, I have to say that if you turn around and look back at the efforts of the previous government, but also the efforts of the current government, this is one of the areas for which the Justice Committee is responsible, where we have really seen that significant progress is being made to create more security for people. I am very fond of Ørsal Johansen's praise – and also Elisabeth Aspaker's praise. It's good to bring yourself into the Christmas celebration, because it's been a tough harvest. That within a very short period of time, it has been possible to establish what has been a very central requirement, namely local authorities and medical coverage at Banak, Bodø, Ørland, Sola and Rygge, is very important. I believe that we are in a very good situation for Norwegian rescue services. There is a huge job in the rescue service, and we see that the number of jobs is not decreasing, but increasing, and the service contributes to creating a security out there, which is all sorts of reason to give credit to all the actors out there who contribute to it. Political support has been given, and with the treatment that is taking place in the Grand Duchy today, there is also considerable economic support. I'm proud that the government has managed to deliver this over these years. We have taken it gradually, about plowing, and believe that we have landed with the demand for response time and bystander in relation to the rescue helicopter services. I would also like to say that I fully agree with the Dørum representative's description of the purchase of new rescue helicopters. Here, there's a lot of consideration to take. It is not that we can today say that we are now buying – it must be a significant quality assurance, fortunately. We've chosen a different track than what was originally for the NH90. We want to assess this, in line with what the Progress Party has also wanted, namely to have free competition in this regard, in order to see what can ensure the best capacity for us. So Stortinget has surely noticed that we have chosen to strengthen the process of purchasing new rescue helicopters with additional funds, so that we can enter into 2009 just as a basis for the tendering process. I believe that we have given it the pressure in this case that we can do, and when we also get through the quality assurance regimes, I am convinced that we have a good foundation for making the necessary purchases. At the same time, I would like to point out – as the representative of the Progress Party – that there are significant costs in keeping track of the old fleet of Sea King helicopters. But at the same time I would like to stress that it is machines that are very good and that have worked very well. And now when you do what you do on the maintenance page, and today's decision also prepares the basis, there are machines that work well in the rescue work. So a few words about the police assignment that comes today. I believe that we now have an opportunity to gather on some political lines about how we meet challenges in the police action. I have noticed that the Right Party and the Advance Party correspond almost directly to the Joint Undertaking's proposal for action, and in this way set aside the processes that need to be followed in terms of wage formation in Norway, working time regulations, etc. I'm glad, as I understand the Christian People's Party and the Left, that they have not chosen to go into that line. From the Government side, it is important that we now have processes in the right track. This is what the dialogue is about the police, and more organisations are going to be involved. The representative of Dørum spoke about organisation, careers, senior policy and several civilians are key elements of that dialogue. And I have to give the representative Dørum credit for the work he has done and the zeal he has shown in recent years, just to point this out. It's been crucial for what kind of angle we have in that dialogue. Then pay determination and discussion about working time regulations get in turn. I think we have everything to earn by standing together about it. And I would be happy if the Right and Advance Party helped to clarify – either today or later – whether we should continue in a system of solidarity in terms of determining pay and working time conditions. I don't think Norwegian police or society have anything to do with us breaking up that system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e331	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e334	It is quite obvious that the Council of State, which turns out to be advocacy in terms of pay queues, is not as effective in terms of police action. After the big debate we had on the Justice Budget, I received a terrible penalty from the Council of State where he thought the undersigned was unfair when I referred to the Staff Committee's report as a basis for taking decisions on action in the case of the police. Then the Council of State was concerned that he had to investigate more in order to be able to do something at all. At the same time, the Right and the other opposition parties have proposed to have a police study. Government parties and state councils have opposed this. What is the problem with the Manning Committee report, as the Council itself has pointed out in a number of contexts as the document he needed to act on when dealing with the police? What is the problem when he now suddenly thinks he has to investigate more?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e343	You can choose to go into this debate with no and only counter-arguments and criticisms. Then we hear that others in the opposition choose to take a slightly more humble attitude to the situation and go into it and see what we can improve. I mean the review that is now coming is a fine follow-up to the Staff Committee report, by looking at just the possibilities we have to get more police force out of them at all times, and how to phase in, among other things. several civilians. It's healthy to have a review of it. At the same time, I have to say that, as far as the issue of action is concerned, the Manning Committee's report also provided a good basis for getting the public and the Storting to know that at least three things had to be done. First of all, it was to increase the recording at the Police College, as we do next year. That's one of the foundations of the Manning Committee's report. Second, we have to have more civilians in. We'll now follow that up on another review. And the third was that you also look at the issue of prevention beyond what the police actually do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e353	The council was in the middle of the rescue service doing a huge job, and no one disagrees, I think. He was also concerned that the Sea King helicopters are good helicopters and have proved themselves good in the ministry so far. But it's also a fact that the helicopters are starting to go in the years. The Council of State explained to the extent that the process of acquiring new helicopters, a process that I got the impression is well under way. But what would have been interesting is if the Council of State could say something about when the rescue services can use their new helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e360	What's important to us when we start such a process is that we have good organization around it. The applicant is aware that we have established our own project organisation this year, which will strengthen its operational base for the next year, and can then carry out the quality assurance necessary when we enter into this project. It is our ambition to clarify the question of tenders in the next year, i.e.: make it available to the public. What is the objective, and as shown by what we have reported to Stortinget, is that we anticipate the phase-in of the new helicopters between 2011 and 2014. So this is dependent on a lot of relationships. Firstly, it depends on the quality assurance process and also on the tendering process. But that's the time period we've set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e367	The Council of State was in place of the fact that the admission to the Police College is now up to a top level. At the same time, we know that in recent years it may not have been the search for police training that we wanted. We have several places to fill. We've actually seen a smaller candidate selection to take off. At the same time, we know that it might look like maybe beyond 10 pst. by those who begin high school at the Police College, choose occupations other than the police. Do the Councils see the need for a review of this? And does the Council of State see the need to consider measures both to strengthen the search for police higher education and to assess the dimensioning, if it is such that we can lose a certain number of students when they are finished?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e374	The operational review we're going to have will also shed light on just the issues. But at the same time, I'd like to warn you very much against saying that it's so little attractive to apply to the Police College that Elisabeth Aspaker has on repeated occasions focused on. The more you focus on it, the worse it gets in many ways. There will be a negative search light in relation to the applicant mass. There's a reason to point out that we had an increase in the candidate mass of the police high school in 2008. It's not like Elisabeth Aspaker has said publicly several times, that it goes down. It's also important to get the positive. The big size of this is that the government that is now sitting takes up over 600 more students than the previous government did. It is clear that it is absolutely essential to get the crew up in the Norwegian police force. If we had continued to keep pace with the pace that the previous government set, and the level at which we were at, 240 and 360, there would be 600 fewer policemen out in the streets in this period. That's the big size, which I actually think the representative Aspaker will take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e381	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e386	The government has always been busy ensuring that the rescue helicopter service ensures that people in need receive the necessary help. In search and rescue, time is a decisive factor in saving lives. In recent years, the cost of maintaining preparedness has increased significantly. The background for the additional costs is, as has been said here before, in short, increasing maintenance costs as a result of ageing helicopters. The rescue helicopter service host in St.prp. No 20 with 33.75 million. kr just in order to be able to maintain today's rescue helicopter readiness. This comes in addition to the rescue helicopter service in St.prp. No 1 for 2007–08 was increased by 160 million. NOK 15 million. kr i St.prp. No 59 for 2007-2008. These funds shall include, inter alia: proceed to a new base in Florø, the bystander arrangement of Rygge and Örland and the continuation of the process of purchasing rescue helicopters. It is true, as has been said here, that the decision on the Florø base was taken in 2002, and the previous government did not actually lift a finger to put into effect the decision. When we know that off the coast of Sogn and Fjordane we find 30 pst. of the total gas and oil extraction, and the fact that there is a great deal of fishing activity here, I am very pleased that the establishment of the Florøbase is now under way. In the presence of a doctor on Rygge and Örland, as said before, is in place. That's good. Here we have actually chosen to use existing barracks instead of building new ones, just like on Banak. One cannot help but notice that both the Right Party and the Advance Party are in favour of giving praise to the Government in this matter. I appreciate that. But they're a little confused that the Florø base is civil. To that it is to say that the government ignites absolutely all this rose, for there has been a great deal of effort on rescue helicopters. In the previous period, there was actually only one base with an ongoing watch in place in just under three years, while this government has got four new bases in three years. In addition, one is in the process of establishing the base in Florø. The most important thing about the Florø base is as I said to get him up to stand. For those who come in trouble outside of Stadt, and who need to be scared, there is no matter who is behind them – whether it's military personnel or civil. In fact, the most important thing is that one gets scared. And that's the work that's now going on. So I would also like to clarify that there were professional assessments behind that we didn't want to lead the NH90 option even once. It is a little difficult to decide on the comments of the Progress Party, where one refers to proposals in the Inst. S. No 104 that's not yet public. So that discussion we almost have to come back to. They haven't been in this much today either. When it comes to the purchase of rescue helicopters, the Council of State has done well for it. It is true, as has been said, that we are seeing a phase-in between 2011 and 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e407	There was apparently a small budget debate about the police today, and then I can't allow the opportunity to say any words about it going away. It is quite right that the rapporteur said that there has been a large increase in the judicial budget, and there has been a large increase to the Police College. It is very good, but it should only be lacking when there has also been a large increase in the income of the Norwegian state. What we should not forget is that there have also been increased wage and price adjustments. The police have been given more and more tasks with which they have not always followed the money. The violence and crime we see out in the streets and other places just gets rougher and rougher. It's been a very special harvest. I've had a feeling that the opposition and government parties have lived on each of their own planet, and have gone completely into clinch with the police. But now the committee leader has invited us to dialogue. And of course you have to engage in dialogue, but then at least we have to agree on certain things. It's that there's a crisis out there, and it's a crisis that goes at the expense of most people. Now some of us have been visiting police districts. We've been out and seen with our own eyes what it looks like, and that's not good. We can also agree that we should not discuss wages other than wages and salaries – I fully agree with that. However, there is something that needs to be done in the area. It affects most people, and it goes beyond prevention. People don't get the service they're supposed to have from the police. So the Minister of Justice said he has increased the budgets. But that's where the difference between the Advance Party and the government parties is. We believe that the increase is not large enough, because it is the operating budget of the police with whom you are struggling. When it is now allocated 52 million. If it is to be shared between the police departments we have, it is not enough. I visited the Stavanger police myself on Saturday. There the police told me that when the Novas rant happened, it was approx. Four people at work. Then the politicians said afterwards: never again shall it happen. But today there are no more police officers on guard in Stavanger than what it was during the Novas. The Progress Party must be involved in a dialogue, but then there must be a dialogue that will enable us to meet the needs of the people out there for police officers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e424	I don't know if we're in the wish pricing department when we start to debate things again here, but there was one comment from the Council of State that can't be undisputed. It was that the right-hand side has gone well for all PF's demands. The right has not done that. What the right has done is to show support for PF for the two requirements that PF has had for a long time and that are consistent with what was provided in our alternative budget, two of which were voted down on 3 December – several civil servants, active senior measures with a national strategy. We'd give money for that. It was downhearted. That same evening we also discussed the police study. It was not said a word about this, but it was said all the more by the Council of State on TV 2, after it had also voted down that proposal in Stortinget. In terms of working conditions and wages, the duty of peace is to be maintained. This attempt to turn the focus away from the crisis that the police are in, by suggesting that the Right has almost entered into pay negotiations on TV, is actually quite inappropriate. What we have said is that the work environment law may need to be amended, we need to find a device to enable it. There's something quite different than saying that we have swallowed the bait from PF rat. As far as dialogue is concerned, we had the opportunity to have a dialogue here for seven weeks in the Grand Duchy, after the government budget was presented. It had expired on the date that it was submitted. Seven weeks you had, and so you chose to vote down all the proposals that could give more police force now. Then there might be a crisis package in January/February. We hope, then, that civil servants and senior measures are part of that crisis package. But when you want a dialogue, it is very bad that the representatives of the government parties go into a two-page look-up in the VG in consultation with the Council of State and fires up under the bad negotiating climate that was before you sat down at the negotiating table and got PF's demands. But I'm going to contribute to shortening the debate by using half a minute less than what is speaking time. I just want to recommend that you actually have a dialogue and not just conduct polemics and try to create the impression that the opposition has completely different agendas than we actually have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e435	As an old-fashioned urban commissioner, I get to rejoice when the inherited sin of the competitors, reads: The government, is repeated less and less. There have been some rounds in this room where you should almost think that admission to the Police College was a sort of transparency that vibrated across the country in the years 2001–2005, but that did not reach the sitting government. This has become increasingly dampened and more and more marked by the Bjørnflaten representative's invitation today and also the Breen representative's recognition earlier. But the council had a small sling. It wasn't like the Bondevik II government wanted to continue with that level, it started on the opposite side of an escalation, to 240, to 360, and it has the sitting government enjoying it now; we all enjoyed it. The escalation would have continued, but others took over. And let me say, since I was living at that time, that there was no pressing pressure in any of the budgetary settlements made with the Progress Party three times and with the Workers' Party once, to get more on admission to the Police College. It would have been something cheaper to do in the short term, but it was not a striking pressure – not from anyone – and I am not saying it to say anything but that it was the way it was. Then, in retrospect, we can all say that we should have had more – because we agree – and then we are happy that it will be a stepping-up. And I'm glad that the escalation will be on the high number as it is for next year. But I would like to say from the fact that history should not have Bolshevik features, in the sense that one starts to talk in the present as if the past was different than it was. But in common, to admit that we're going to do something more, which has been the basic tone here, is an atmosphere that I'm fully involved in. So this has to be seen as a milder post; I've had some posts a little bit scratched in the tone before. But since the Council of State has improved dramatically – he had only a small short boost to this Bolshevik trend today, as opposed to strong shakiness before – I get to be milder in tone and milder in shape, and then I get to agree with the representative of the Bjørnface, who says we should look forward and get hold of more people. It's very positive. And it's very positive that you want to focus on civilians, and that you want to bet on senior policy. I hope this is the last time I have to have comments on Bolshevik history from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e446	I had actually hoped that the post I made would be the last post I made today. But after the exchange of lines with the Council of State, I felt that it was necessary to take the word again. I feel that he deliberately misinterprets me every time I and the Right have raised the concern about the admission to the Police College. This is not something that the Right has sucked out of its own breast, but it's actually a concern that's conveyed: right there's a very small increase in the candidate mass, but when the number we're going to pick up at the Police College, increases dramatically in the years to come, it's actually pure math that the sample we have to take off for education is actually worse than what we've had in the past. I do not say that there are still not qualified applicants in the candidate mass, but it is important to stress that this is an education that requires the highest of those to serve in the Norwegian police in the future. When we're going to be admitted to the Police College, it's important that we ensure a good candidate starting point to take off. I also note that the previous proposal that has been put forward by the Right that the admission to the Police College should take place at the same time as admission to other colleges and colleges, because it could also improve recruitment, is actually taken into account, and now you get admission to the Police College at the same time. I hope that this will help others to discover police training as one of many opportunities, and that more people are applying for it. It is important that police training is attractive. Police training obviously has a status in society, all the time it's others who are after hunting for the same students that we have a wish to stay in the police case. We just have to take that over. This could mean that we have to train a few more people than we know we need to get into the police case. We cannot order people to work there as long as the education is not paid, and people must have the opportunity that they can make a different choice afterwards. Of course, the ideal thing is that the police profession seems so attractive that everyone goes there. A small remark about the situation we are now going into: with more and more people coming up and bigger coal at the Police College, we will need more practice places for these students. Then it is important that the Police College follows up, and that the new police districts to receive students are also strengthened by mentoring skills and resources, so that they are able to provide these students in a good way. But, as I said, the Right is concerned that police training should be attractive. We are concerned that we should get as many students as possible to apply, and we are also concerned that the police case should be so attractive that as much as possible goes there afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e461	We're in a festive mood, it's going to Christmas. As the representative Odd Einar Dørum said, peace is going to sink over us. But there's a couple of challenges, too, we know that. There will be much higher alcohol consumption in many homes in the future. We also know from the statistics of the medical officers, from the police reports, from the crisis centres, that violence against children and women will increase in the next few days. It's a big contrast that on the one hand we want peace and quiet, and on the other hand, the weakest of us are exposed to the opposite. Mostly, it affects children, women and the elderly. The last category is sub-communicated, it's a category that we're all almost jumping over. It's invisible violence, and it's much more dangerous violence. The violence that is being committed on the street is visible – it is being captured by the media, the police and many other agencies that are out there. The violence committed against women and children in the quiet room is much more dangerous, for there is much less attention around it. We've been strengthening the police for the last few months by 52 million. kr. We now expect, both in the SV and many others, that the police have increased attention and a high level of preparedness for this invisible violence at home. We have family violence coordinators in the whole country. I expect the people who are set to do this job to be prepared and focused, and that the measures are there, that all of these people – both in the police and not least in the municipal apparatus – are in place, so that fewer possible children, women and the elderly are subjected to violence, and that if they are subjected to violence, they get help when they need it, so that Christmas also becomes a pleasant time for them, and not destroyed by those who are going to use very much alcohol and let it go beyond their closest ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e473	I only want one precision from the Progress Party. I heard a whole new tone in the speech of the representative Solvency Horne when it came to the obligation of peace, that pay terms should actually be negotiated when there are tariff negotiations, and not otherwise. My question is simple: does that mean that it is Siv Jensen, among others? said at PF's national meeting that they had to get the right pay and that now, and the populist proposals that were in the ten-point plan, are just a populist play, and that this is history, so that we can trust that this is the Progress Party's line from now on?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e480	I believe that what has emerged in the debate now is very important. Important clarifications from the opposition, but also from the position, in the sense that we have invited to talks about the police situation, I think it is absolutely crucial. A lot of the debate that has been around the police, and a description of the facts out there that, at my discretion, has not always been as correct, have in themselves contributed to insecurity. I also believe that much of that focus helps to make it less attractive to apply for the Police College. Then it is much better for all actors that we have a constructive angle on how to solve the challenges facing the police. I believe that more people in the opposition have taken on that particular angle. I am very pleased that we now, just before Christmas, actually hear the Progress Party say that the pay question is to be discussed at the pay table. It is quite different to what we have heard in the past that, at the direct national meeting in the Joint Political Union, an increase in wages has almost been granted – apart from walking – as I also understand the representative Heggø, that even proposals have been made. That's very good. I have to pay tribute to the Advancement Party for going back on that. I think it is absolutely crucial if we are to be able to succeed in strengthening the police case. I also think it is very good that the representative Dahl now says that what the Right now has in mind to strengthen the police, does not deal with pay issues, but that there are two things going on: several civil servants and senior policy measures. I fully agree with that. These are matters that we are going to discuss in the future. This can be done independently of wage negotiations and other things. But I have to say that the impression the public has of the Right positions on these issues is probably quite different from what you are now expressing. But I choose to interpret and understand this in a very good sense, in the sense that the Storting is now very much assembled that pay issues and working time issues should follow their processes. I think that's very important if we're to be able to achieve a common understanding of both problems and challenges, not least in terms of solutions. So I mean, as also the representative Dørum was about, that we can discuss the police high school recording until we turn blue, as someone says. However, I believe that every government that sits on the table is responsible for producing facts and analyses of the need for the agency that you run. The staff committee report and the work we have done in the last three years show that we have a different need. I wish that understanding had come to all of us earlier. But that hasn't happened, and that's also part of why we have too few policemen today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e491	There are no contradictions between what I have said and what Siv Jensen has said, or what the other has said. What we have focused on is that there has been a major crisis in the police this fall and that the Progress Party believes that the resources are too small. In the ten-point plan that we have promoted and which we are going to deal with in the Stortingen over the New Year, we have made several concrete proposals where we need to look at the level of wages. We have to look at the risk add-on, and we have to look at the educational cycle. There's such things that we're going to come back to. However, starting to discuss today – except for paychecks – how much police officers should serve, at least I signed that we should not do. What we have to agree on is that it's a crisis, and that we have to do something about the situation in the police now. With regard to what we talked about earlier in the context of dialogue, I hope that the government parties will look closely at the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted and that we will get up to debate after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e496	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[See page 1612]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e514	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1614]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e532	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1614]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e550	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1614]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e566	The store today deals with St.prp. No 85 for 2007-2008, which relate to changes in the State budget of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence in relation to exceptional expenditure on the management of forest fires in Fromland. The forest fire in Fromand started on June 9, and the municipal fire protection was activated. 14 men pulled out, and after two hours it was given feedback that the fire crews were at good courage. Control was reached. But in the evening the first disturbing news came that the fire was out of control. The firemaster in Fromland then asked for assistance from fire helicopters, but was denied his request. The fire was not prioritised enough to receive assistance from fire helicopters. This was a misappropriation, and the fire evolved into the largest forest fire in Norway after World War II. The civil defense took part with 790 crews, the Home Protection Agency with approx. 600 crews in addition to large crews from municipal fire services in nearby municipalities. Strong wind was a contributing cause for the fire to spread very quickly. Several farms had to be evacuated, but no farms burned down. ==References== 25 cabins were replaced by flames. Fire helicopters – albeit on a small scale – were introduced into the closure of forest fires. Although several private helicopters were available, these were not inserted until Friday 13 June. That day there were 16 helicopters in turn, and these, together with ground crews, did a great job. Had not the refusal of the red-green government to use private helicopters been as large as it was, firefighters believe that the scope of fire in Fromland would be significantly reduced. Rejection of Froland's request for fire helicopters from expert teams seems to be a major misappropriation. The total cost of DSB, Civil Protection and Home Protection efforts amounts to 22.2 million. kr. A single committee acknowledges that the costs incurred in connection with the forest fire in Fromand must be recovered in such a way as to ensure that the bodies concerned are covered. The Committee therefore supports the proposed arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e577	I'm not going to extend the debate that much, but I want to reflect on how much good and timely equipment means to limit a disaster, such as. a forest fire. For many years and many hearings, the Defence Committee has heard of how bad, old and little handy much or part of the equipment for example. The civil defense is. The car park they have is both older and worse than the average on a medium farm at home in Hedmark, where I come from – the last is of course my words. The car park is often both 30 and 40 years old. The same thing is much of the other equipment they have, or dispose of. Personal clothing is another important thing that needs to be upgraded – including footwear and helmets. To carry out a difficult and perhaps dangerous task, safety and safety equipment must be present. What's equally important is to practice, and the lack of your own, and not least common exercises, is great. Cooperation is important. In order to maximise the use of crews and equipment, coordination and logistics are very important. In conclusion, the economic dimension must be put in place in terms of remuneration for all the personnel serving both in civil protection and in the field of Home Affairs, and otherwise for others who contribute to minimising a disaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e590	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 1614]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e606	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each of the rapporteurs and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e615	The document we now have for processing is Document No. 1 for 2008-2009, Report of the National Audit Office on the annual audit and audit for the financial year 2007. This is the most important document from the National Audit Office of Stortinget. The document reports on the outcome of the audit of the ministry and state agencies. The document also contains the result of the control of the administration of enterprises in which the State is the owner. The Court of Auditors has revised the accounts for a total of 230 activities. A 208 audit letters have been sent without comments, while 22 companies have received an audit letter with comments. The number of enterprises that have received comments is about the same level as in previous years, but there is a slight increase from 2006. The National Audit Board has controlled the government's interests in 42 state shareholders, in 41 joint shareholders, in 4 regional health agencies, in 6 state enterprises, in 4 enterprises organised by separate law and in 26 student co-operations. The Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Coastal Fisheries and the Ministry of Transport. As a lead-in, I would like to point out two horizontal features of the 2007 report. Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the general criticism of the Riksrevision by the departmental government. In fact, the governance of state agencies and substantiating agencies is a central element in the implementation of the Stortinget's decisions. The Committee has therefore expressed its view in its opinion that the Riksrevision finds that several departments do not have satisfactory administration. This may make it difficult to verify whether the Storting has complied with its decisions and obligations. I also said this last year – and the year before – and I repeat it now: the Committee expects the Government to take this into account and that better governance of state-owned enterprises is required. My second major score also applies to several departments and enterprises – this point was also pointed out last year and year before. This applies to the breach of the Public Procurement Regulation. The Committee takes a very serious view of the high number of comments on this point. I also allow myself to express a certain wonder. It has been very remarkable about public procurement for many years. Nevertheless, it may seem that many companies have serious problems complying with the legislation. Perhaps a question might be asked – as this does not seem to be improving – whether the rules are too complex and too impossible to comply with, because I don't think these are deliberate actions on the part of the various departments. A joint committee asked in its setting last year the government to start work on the preparation of a separate case for the Stortinget on the management of the public procurement legislation. I am calling for progress in this matter. Let me underline that this is a serious signal to the Government. So I'd like to say something about the departments for which I've had a case-speakership in the management of Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox This is primarily the case with the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast, as I do not have any comments with the Prime Minister's office, which is my second field. In the case of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the Committee points out that the Riksrevision has covered matters relating to the administration of the Secora AS ownership by the State Council, which is unsustainable. It is appropriate to highlight in particular that the board of directors of the company has assigned a mandate to a member of the board of directors. The Committee would refer here to the State's own principle of good ownership and that the Committee had previously stated that members of the board should not carry out any business for which they are members of the Board of Directors, in return for payment. The Committee would also point out that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs of the management of ownership interests should have followed up on the ideas that weaken the independence of the board. In this case, the board also has its playroom to be impartial in its control function. The Committee would also point out that ownership has now been transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Furthermore, the Committee believes that there is every reason to follow up the ownership management of Secora AS, even if it has now moved to another department. The Progress Party has some special comments, and some of them will be commented on by other speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e643	The Ministry of Renewal and Administration is responsible for coordinating and making best use of public sector resources. It is therefore not good when, for the third consecutive year, the ministry and the underlying establishments for which it is responsible violates the public procurement rules. There is reason to ask questions about the reason why this happens. Is it too difficult and too heavy? – that is a timely question. As responsible for the design of the legislation, it must be in the interests of the Ministry to make an ongoing assessment of the need for changes and simplification, if this is the case. A Joint Committee welcomes the implementation by the National Audit Office of an administrative audit in this area and assumes that the Council of State gives high priority to the establishment of good practice in its own departments and agencies. Another repetition of the annual report of the National Audit Office is the management of county offices. Here, the Riksrevision as well as the Stortinget on a number of occasions have pointed out shortcomings in the administration of the establishment. Clear control signals and ensuring their implementation are a prerequisite for success. The National Audit Office’s survey of selected issues in drug and residential social work shows that, in many cases, internal governance is not organised in accordance with the requirements. I also assume here that the Council of State will address the deficiencies that the Riksrevision's investigation has revealed. The Committee shares the Riksrevision’s assessment that the correct pension rate indicator cannot be considered satisfactory in a timely manner unless the data on which the payments are based are accurate. There is also reason to note that the State Pension Fund has written off losses and loans in violation of the existing mandate, and I assume that the Council of State will follow up this matter. The National Audit Office also reports on improvements in several areas of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality for the financial year 2007 and is positive. But that doesn't mean everything's fine. The law, regulation and administrative provisions governing public acquisitions and the financial management rules of the State continue to be infringed. I assume that the Council of State is giving high priority to strengthening the competence of employees in this area. It is also not good enough when the department also presents a significant exceedance for Bufatat for 2007. It is not that the money is not needed, but this happens after the budget has been allocated during the financial year and despite the Storting's clear instructions to the Ministry for the realistic budgeting of child protection. I hope the Council of State will ensure that we do not get a similar case on the next annual settlement. Child protection has been through a difficult transition period in connection with the acquisition of the country. I have noticed that the organization is beginning to find its shape, and that development is moving in a positive direction. It shall have all the honours of both the Ministry and the management and staff of the Bufetat. Our ability to ensure good care for children who grow up in families with addiction, mental illness and care failure is the very test of the welfare community. There is also a debate on the purchase of child-resistance facilities on tenders. On the part of the Ministry, it is called upon to strengthen its own institutions and to use institutions governed by NPISHs to a greater extent than in the past. This is a line I agree with, and that involves a reduction in the use of purely commercial actors. The most important thing, however, is that users of child protection services should receive the best possible range of services. In all cases, the choice of solution, quality and price must be absolutely required to be documented and verified. It must be kept under constant review that the offer actually complies with the requirements laid down. I hope that the new control guidelines for private institutions will help ensure a good and equivalent offer across the country. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is responsible for a number of other areas. The whole of four of the eight cases mentioned last year by the National Audit Office are still unresolved. This concerns the relationship between emergency and other places in child protection institutions. Furthermore, the length of the procedure for adoption cases is still too long. Fuzzy accounting policies and governance signals for the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, the State Institute for Consumer Research and the Consumer Council need to be clarified and put in place. Similarly, the control and management of the Distribution Committee, the Secretariat of the Market Council and the Consumer Dispute Committee must be designed to bring the reporting of accounts into line with the requirements of the Financial Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e664	I am the case rapporteur for two departments, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Churches. There are no serious comments in these departments, and in addition, in the absence of any government council present, I think I should go past these in silence. So there's a combination of two ratios that make me do it. On the other hand, I would like to make a few comments on the general trend in Document No. 1 this year, like last year. And that's what's interesting about it, there's a stability in this that's enticing. Here, state councils come every year and assure you that next year you'll be better, but next year the same criticism is going to repeat itself pretty much. So stability is at least a covering expression. But that is not a satisfactory character. There are two aspects that I would like to pay particular attention to, and which the Riksaudition is also doing in its summary. There is a lack of follow-up to roll-out decisions in the management of the floor. The ministries are doing the best they can, but they forget to tell the underlying agencies that they have to do it better than last year. That's the one. The second concerns tenders. The number of sinners in the case of tenders is broadly constant. I do not think this is because the legislation is difficult to follow, because many people are able to follow it very well. It must be pointed out that there are many who follow this to the point and dot, and are likely to be better managed with their office or department in that way. Because just following the rule we do last year, or we use the same supplier as last year, gives little satisfactory results in today's market. That's why this is so serious. I am pleased that the Riksrevision will carry out its own administrative audit in this area to see if there are system errors. But I would like to ask the Minister for Renewal the following question: Why did she assure you last year that everything would be better, when nothing has improved? What is she lacking to be able to manage other departments and their underlying offices in this area? And I ask the question, is it that the Ministry of Renewal does not have sufficient competence or authority to rule in this area? One could raise a question in the Norwegian government — I know it has not been done before — if not some tasks should be included within the Prime Minister’s office, so that the Prime Minister himself had a more direct responsibility for some of the ongoing tasks throughout the administration. It seems to me that the idea of having a kind of administration department, which, under changing names, has always been, that should be superior to others and take care of other departments, would gradually become – and there is both a criticism and a self-criticism in this – a somewhat difficult task, to say it very carefully. But I would like to challenge the Council of States – and that is my last chance at least in this period – to say what measures she lacks to deliver better results next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e677	As the Committee's rapporteur for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, I will highlight some important issues and issues relating to the audit of activities for 2007. Let me first underline what several rapporteurs have said here in the past with regard to the support of the assessments made by the Riksaudition regarding the importance of putting in place good risk management in the country, the need to improve and further develop the establishment management of underlying businesses, and it is not least serious that the public procurement legislation is constantly broken. This has more people in it, and I don't have to repeat it. Now the Riks revision is going to review this, and I'm glad. But if that means changing the legislation, simplifying the legislation and making this more understandable to many leaders in the state, then it will get my approval. Something is obviously wrong when you are unable to deal with this problem year after year. However, it is of course important that simplification and improvement do not go beyond cost-effective procurement, competition and not least equal treatment. I look forward to the review that the National Audit Office will have, and hopefully this will improve over time. So to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, with ten underlying establishments being audited. The national audit has issued eight final audit letters without any comment. Norway’s geological surveys and Norwegian Rome Centre have received final audit letters with comments. The Committee takes a serious view that the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs does not reach the targets in terms of supervision and vertical audit, and the Riksrevision points out that this may be due to a lack of framework conditions granted by the Ministry. The main task of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs is to achieve a high level of safety for life, health and vessels, and the Committee therefore assumes that the Department will play an active role in improving the activities of the Directorate in the future. In 2007, the Patent Board also failed to achieve the objective of reducing the number of cases and improving patent proceedings. We took this up last year, and evolution is very unfortunate. Since last year, the length of proceedings in the Patent Board has increased from 4.3 years to 6.2 years by the end of 2007. The target figure for the Patent Board is 3 years average duration of proceedings, but it has now increased to a total of 6.2 years. The rapid processing of patent applications is also about Norway’s ability to innovate. Especially now that you have international downtimes, getting a patent board that actually does what you have to do, fast, very important for business. This means that the Committee expects the Ministry to take appropriate action without delay to follow up the non-achievement of the Patent Board. The National Audit Office also has significant observations on Norway’s geological studies related to the implementation of the budget, and the National Audit Office also takes a serious view of NGU’s failure to manage and control ICT security and the lack of security and contingency plans. We also expect this to be addressed. The National Audit Office has also controlled the administration of a total of 22 companies by the Council of State, of ten wholly owned companies, nine jointly owned companies, two state enterprises and a special-law company. The National Audit Board has comments on the government administration of SIVA and Great Norwegian, and let me spend some time at the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani, as it is called. The national audit reveals major security and risk weaknesses in the mining operations of Great Norske in Svea Nord since its opening in 2003. This worries me, and it should worry the department that owns the company. Large Norwegians have experienced two fatal accidents and a mining fire that stopped operations for eight months after normal mining was started in Svea Nord. When the operation started after the fire, there was a race with great damage potential. In addition to these serious incidents, the incidence of injury increased significantly in both 2004 and 2005 and was four times higher in 2005 than in 2003. However, in 2007, it was almost twice as high as in 2003. The National Audit Office points out that until the accident in July 2005, the Ministry received very limited information on the company’s safety systems and on how the board is working to monitor the company’s safety systems. It is positive that this dialogue is now improved after 2005. The company works, among others: with quality assurance through ISO standards. However, we are witnesses to fatal accidents, mining fires, accidents and a lack of ability to protect the lives and health of workers, and that is very critical. Not least in a state-owned industry, safety and environmental considerations must take precedence over other considerations. Now it is not the first time you mention mining accidents on Svalbard from this pulpit, but I would still like to say that the committee expects the Council of State to take action in connection with the Great Norske Spitsbergen Kullkompani.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e703	As the rapporteur for the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I would first like to make a few comments on the audit of the accounts of these two departments. The National Audit Office has issued 17 final audit letters to enterprises under the Ministry of Justice without any comments. Nor are there any comments on the companies that sort under the department. This is positive. Equally positive are not all the observations relating to the audit of the ministry's own activities. The ICT management of the Police Directorate and its underlying entities has been a repetition for several years. Obviously, a number of measures have been taken, but this may seem to be late. Most alarmingly, full-value back-up solutions have still not been put in place. Based on the schedule, this will still take time, and this is a matter that the Riksrevision is not finished. The monitoring committee will also follow this case further. The police have a responsibility to approve and control private security companies and to collect fees from them. The audit shows that control activity has varied from district to district — in some places completely absent. Guards often provide services bordering on police services. It is therefore important that there is reliable control of the establishments. The public must be confident that watchkeeping companies are working in accordance with the requirements set and that they are working in accordance with the law. Neither has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs commented on the underlying activities and the management of the State’s interests in a full-time special-law company. For the department’s own part, some cases have been raised earlier and remain unresolved. I would like to mention in particular the Ministry's practice of the overtime provisions of the Working Environment Act. It is too bad when conditions that have been raised for several years in a row of the Riksrevision, are not yet resolved. At least this does not indicate that the matter is given priority by the department. I expect that the matter can now be queried in the examination of the revision for the current year. The National Audit Office has carried out audits of bilateral assistance to Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. This shows a lack of consistency between plan and reporting and a lack of risk assessment in several of these projects. There are differences in the procedure of the embassies in the three countries related to the follow-up and detection of maladministration and corruption in projects. It is positive that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has now drawn up a standard reporting form and established an alert service and that updated guidelines for the management of suspicions of corruption have now been put in place. Now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is schooling its staff so that the new tools can be used as intended. Otherwise, let me stress that if the Storting is to have the necessary control over the use of the aid, it is necessary that the budget proposal shows where and for what purpose the money is to be used, and that it is later explained how the money has been used and the results achieved. A case that has been a repetition for several years is a violation of the procurement law of the State. Most seriously, the Ministry of Renewal and Administration that administers the legislation has received comments for the third consecutive year – this is also mentioned by others. It is in place that the National Audit Office is now to carry out the administrative audit of the site. Perhaps the Government should also consider whether there are regulatory issues that should be amended. At least the Christian People's Party believes that there are regulatory conditions that can be practised differently if one wants to. The derogation provided for in the legislation in relation to non-governmental organisations and institutions should be used to a greater extent both for the purchase of services in the field of child protection and for the provision of care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e731	I'm going to stop a little bit at the health chapters, and in particular what's going on with regional health businesses. It is such that the Council of State imposes requirements on health businesses by means of a mission document. This document shall be the governing body of each regional health undertaking. Reporting back to the owners, i.e. to the Department of the Council of State, shall show the level of achievement. The national audit has verified the reporting of target achievement by regional health enterprises. The national audit concludes that it is difficult to assess the achievement of objectives in several areas, such as: in activity growth and mental health protection. The Ministry recognises that it is difficult to compare regional health enterprises with each other because they report differently. Lack of quality indicators further makes it difficult to establish the quality of healthcare. It is an objective to have equivalent services in all four health establishments. The Committee considers that it is serious when the reporting system is such that this important area cannot actually be verified. It is the priority rule that governs the development of healthcare. So they're the ones that need the most help first. The size has decided to give priority to children’s and youth psychiatry rights. It is a pleasure to record that the waiting time for these has fallen, but it is very worrying that the waiting time is still the longest compared to the rights spaces within somatic and rehabilitation. The central party agrees with the Riksrevision that the waiting time in paediatric psychiatry is not acceptable. Furthermore, the Riksrevision points out that the proportion of Corridor Asians has not fallen. The Committee stresses that this is in fact an unworthy way of treating patients. So we know that Corridor Asians are about how a person chooses to organise the hospital services, and so the committee asks the ministry to pay special attention to this. There are large sums that are used for health. It is important that these funds are used as Size determines that they should be used. The Ministry must therefore have the attention to these areas, as the Riksrevision points out, does not function properly enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e746	I am the case rapporteur for the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the Ministry of Defence, but first I would like to point out a matter that concerns all departments, and that is the establishment of good reporting procedures. A Joint Committee underlines the importance of reporting on whether or not the objectives set are met. Equally important is the fact that the governance signals provided by the departments provide underlying agencies are clear on objectives. These conditions are a prerequisite for the operation of Storting’s control of management. It is equally important to make what is achieved through policy decisions visible. The nature of the audit is to point to anomalies. A reasonable social debate must also bring with it what is achieved, even if it should be a little lacking in a full pot and so you get an observation. Let me also draw up the Committee's support for the idea of presenting company control as a matter of its own. Today it may come a little too much into the background, when presented in Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox Five minutes and two departments don't give time for a deeper review, so I'll start by referring to the unanimous committee comments in the setting of these departments. Here I'm going to be careful to point out some of the conditions. It is positive that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has improved the procedures to clarify which documents are of a governing nature, but they still need to be better at that point. This is important because it is necessary to verify the decision-making processes and to see whether the objectives adopted are met. One example is grants for housing-social work in municipalities, where the ministry does not provide clear guidance signals, and where it is difficult to see what are the criteria for achieving the objectives. As central as this instrument is in the fight against poverty, political governance must also be clearer. The Nav reform is huge and demanding. The review of the audit shows that the requirement for individual follow-up of users is too low a priority. This is serious because it is a central objective of the whole reform. Another serious issue is the lack of an overview of so-called foreign affairs. It is also serious because we have to expect greater levels of labour immigration in the coming years, and because this has been pointed out earlier. Finally, with regard to this department: I hope this is the last time we have to point out that there are still no satisfactory arrangements for the dissemination of hearing aids. In view of the considerable shortcomings in the accounts of the Ministry of Defence over several years, there are, fortunately, signs of clear improvement — but, unfortunately, there are still recurrences. For 2007, too, the Department receives criticism of lack of traceability and evidence of acquisitions. The Ministry has taken action to improve the procedures. This is necessary when serious deficiencies are still to be identified, including: the absence or partial presence of self-checks in some cases. In the light of the ongoing debate on the size of the defence budget, there is also reason to point out that there were 653.4 million in 2007. kr or 8,13 pst. of the allocation unused in the account. Lack of material management has also been a problem area for many years. It is disappointing that, despite the strong call of the Storting to address the situation, there is still a basis for serious comments. There is still a significant number of debt collection cases, which are expensive, and there are still mispayments of wages, even if the extent is reduced. It may seem trivial, but it gives cause for concern that the defense is unable to clean up something that should be easy: to pay the bills in time and pay the correct salary. It raises concerns about how an organisation that is permeated by command structure, but does not master the simple, will be able to deal with the complex and unpredictable that a war operation will involve.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e780	As rapporteur for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Environment, I would first like to point out that the Ministry of Finance in 2007 was responsible for seven underlying activities and for the management of the State's interests in the Bank of Norway. The National Audit Office has here issued three final audit letters with comments on the tax rate, the customs and tax rate and the central government collection centre. I'll link some comments to them. First, I would like to point out that the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for six agencies and three funds. There is so much joy in recording that the Riksrevision has issued eight audit letters without comments and has found everything right – only one letter with comments, which concerns the State’s mapping work. In the case of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, there has been a previous lack of target achievement in terms of control activity, particularly in relation to enterprises. The 2007 Minister of Finance’s letter of allocation highlighted increased efforts to control complex and more serious issues. A result improvement was expected, but the number of checks has been reduced, and the proportion of controlled traders has had a significant decrease – that is, the opposite of what we expected. This is expected to be followed up by an overall committee. I must be allowed to add that it is with great amazement that I register a finance minister from the Socialist Left Party who has always in the past had or created the impression that the most sensible investment that the public could make was to hire more tax controllers – increased tax control led to so much revenue that it would be very profitable. From time to time when I heard Kristin Halvorsen in opposition, it would be thought that it would be perfect happiness in the country if everyone were employed as tax collectors, because that would be the most profitable thing we could do. So it would be interesting if Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen could now give the Stortinget an explanation of how it might have been that the control business has actually gone down under her management of the department, and that the letter of assignment her department has now sent has not been followed up. Then she should in fact be much more careful than she has proved to be. So it would be very positive if the Storting could be informed in this debate, and especially when the committee points out that we accept that recruitment may have been a problem. Now there is likely to be a whole new situation also for some lawyers and economists, like, for example. may be released from the real estate sector so that the necessary reinforcements may now be available to obtain an adequate and acceptable control system. When we also want to, it is of course because there should be justice between businessmen. They must be subjected to the same framework conditions, so that they do not vary according to where you are in the country. Let me also point out that in the case of the Customs and Fee Seat, there are major deficiencies. They are going to check on us ordinary citizens, and it is a little sad that, in particular, the tax rate and the tax rate appear to have problems with the achievement of the objectives of the four main target areas that apply to the Customs and Fee Setaten. We point out that it has been pointed out by the National Audit Office that more should be formulated requirements for task implementation, results and achievement in the letter of assignment. It might be interesting if the Minister of Finance would also confirm that the references made by the Riksaudition with the support of an overall committee will be included in the 2009 letter of allocation for the Customs and Fee Setaten. It would be nice if it was confirmed as well. So to the repeater in the case of defective follow-up to the procurement law and the allocation rules, in particular the acquisitions. Here, I believe, in fact, the Ministry of Renewal, as long as they have the overall responsibility, should look into whether or not to include the Staff Regulations – so that the managers responsible for some departments get it clear in their terms of employment – that if they do not comply with the procurement law, their employment will cease. It's only by making the managers responsible that we can get something more here. In this way, I would also like to say that it is interesting to hear the views of the Minister of Renewal – and perhaps also of the Minister of Finance – on the question raised by Per-Kristian Foss, whether or not SMK should be brought in to a far greater extent than the Ministry of Renewal, which has certainly not been quite able to do that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e796	I am the case rapporteur for the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Knowledge. I will explain some important points in the Committee's consideration of the two chapters. First to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. They are responsible for two underlying businesses, and the Riksrevision has issued one audit letter without comments and one with comments, to the Norwegian State Husbank. Checks have also been carried out on the interests of the State in a jointly-owned limited liability company without any comments on the administration of the Council of State. It's positive. Interestingly, the review of the KOSTRA report by the National Audit Office shows that there is a risk that municipalities report figures that are not comparable. Over 50 pst. by the specific enterprises in the municipal sector underreport, and this also weakens the basis for comparison. The reporting on COSTRA is used for the calculation of grants and therefore there is a risk that the basis is incorrect. In the case of supervision by the county, this may also lead to unfortunate observations and claims for reimbursement of some grants. This is why the Committee has also found it critical that the Ministry has not set up any quality-enhancing measures so far. The KOSTRA reporting has an improvement potential, but no reporting tool is more appropriate than KOSTRA. Therefore, development, training and proper reporting are essential. So there's a big difference between COSTRA and reality in too many cases. As rapporteur of the case, I find particular reason to point out that the provisions of the House Bank through the accounts show significant breaches of the applicable legislation. The Government Acquisitions Code has not been complied with and there is a mix of roles between the beneficiary of compensation grants and the Husbank in one of the acquisitions. That, of course, is not acceptable. It may be due to the legitimacy of the scheme, and it is particularly critical that some of the illegal acquisitions were negotiated and concluded by the top management of the Husbank. I am pleased that the Department recognises this challenge, and the Committee expects it to be cleared up as soon as possible. The identification of the homeless was not carried out after the planned deadlines. Such a survey was central to an opinion on the societal impact of housing social interventions. I know that the Council of State is particularly concerned with housing policy and housing social work, and I expect her to hold high pressure on that field in the future. So to the Ministry of Knowledge. The 51 underlying activities for which the Ministry is responsible are all without any comments from the National Audit Office. 26 student relations have been monitored and note is made of the management of these interactions by the Council of State. The last is a repetition in some form in recent years. The purpose of the grant for student housing is to increase the coverage and provide students with a satisfactory accommodation. There has been a significant investment in recent years through the annual State budget grants, but the development of housing units shows that the investment has had a limited impact. The reason for this is that old furniture is refurbished at a faster pace than foreseen and that the costs of new construction have increased. It is therefore appropriate for the Riksrevision to point out that the Ministry must pay more attention to this area, so that reasons for departure, standard and suitability become part of the follow-up. The Committee takes a serious view of the fact that a total of 131.25 million gift-intensives are being paid. kr has been authorised and paid to private foundations. This means that the funds have been transferred out of the group holding account scheme and in turn results in them being exempted from official controls. The Committee assumes that the funds will be recovered and that the Storting will be properly informed. Finally, the National Audit Office questions the Ministry’s basis for assessing the achievement of the objectives of doctoral education, as there is a lack of documentation and record of absences and deviations, and that establishments have a different understanding of the reporting requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e817	Several case spokesmen have been involved in breaches of the public procurement legislation. Let it be clear: I am in no way happy that there is still a breach of the public procurement legislation. The National Auditor's gonna tell us what's going on. The ministry had a round this summer – with offers, of course – where we ordered a report that should go in more detail and tell us why the breaches happen. The report pointed out that violations of procurement legislation have several reasons, but the most important are lack of leadership anchoring, poor organisation and, not least, lack of knowledge of a complex regulatory framework. The government has already taken action – I have done well for them both for this committee and for the Business Committee before. We will put in place additional measures to ensure that public procurement processes are carried out in accordance with law and regulation, so that we do not have any more breaches of the legislation. The Directorate for Administration and ICT is already working on a professionally good offer. We've had a big addition. We have a department of 13 people in Divi who have purchases as their only territory. Among other things, they make: a procurement portal to be filled with both digital tools, proper information and the provision of competence for all public purchasers. They also served the municipal sector and state enterprises. Of course, the publication site doffin.no shall be located on that procurement portal. The representative Foss concluded that everything was the same. I record that we, at least my department, still have a breach, but there is a clear improvement in the fact that one has not uncovered directly illegal purchases, which are particularly serious, but that we still have three missing tax certificates and two missing protocols. Of course, this should not happen, nor should it happen for existing years or in the years to come. I take seriously the comments from both the National Audit Office and the Committee on the breach of procurement law, and come, as I have previously warned, to the Stortinget with its own big message on public procurement for spring. In addition, the Government shall, of course, support the forthcoming administrative audit by the National Audit Office of the procurement work in the departments and in other public works. I don't settle for today's state, but I will continue with an offensive effort to improve public procurement. It is important that the leader of all public enterprises realise that procurement is a particularly important part of the responsibility for the management, and that they therefore tend to ensure that the routines, organisation and competence are in place in both the own department and in the agencies under consideration. With regard to the Committee's comments on the management of county councils, I would like to make it clear that the councils are responsible for the activities of the county councillors in their field. It is already clear from the work of preparing replies to the National Audit Office that the departments responsible, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the Ministry of Health and Welfare take into account the assessments of the National Audit Office in the further development and improvement of the management dialogue with the county council. I would also like to stress that the county carries out about 300 missions on behalf of 12 different departments. The internal governance of the office should be adapted to the risks in the different areas, taking into account their importance. Resources would be wasted if the Ministry of Consumers and Administration were to assess individual cases in all 18-office subjects. However, I agree with both the National Audit Office and the Committee that the Ministry of Consumer Affairs and Administration has a superior administrative responsibility. We work continuously to improve the administrative system of the county office. We've also increased the permissions by 25 million for 2009. kr, so that staff will have resources to improve the achievement of the target. The Ministry of Consumers and Administration is also working on a new financing and management system of office. The Committee also stresses the responsibility of the Ministry of Consumer and Administrative Affairs to comply with the Liability Regulation relating to the placement of funds in interim accounts. All counties are now required to provide a separate report at the end of the year on the amount of interim amounts. This will provide the Ministry with a good basis for establishing that the agency has not temporarily transferred greater amounts from government agencies. This report will show whether the Ministry's follow-up in 2008 ensures that the accounting for office is in accordance with the requirements of the Regulation and the Ministry's guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e836	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e839	It was good to hear that the Council of State also agrees that compliance with the procurement rules is a special responsibility of the various agencies and offices. The Riksrevision has now, over several years, pointed out a lack of follow-up to the procurement rules in all departments. There are some signs of improvement here and there, but no breakthrough, although we await the message coming to spring. I would like to repeat the question I asked, which I did not receive in the submissions of the Council of State, namely: Will the Council also consider changes in the contract of employment of managers responsible for the procurement rules in their offices, and a passus that if there is a breach of it, there is really a basis for the President to resign – so it is much more precise that they risk losing their job if they do not take care that the procurement rules are complied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e848	If one is to do as the representative Carl I. Hagen suggests, it means that a prioritizing law on procurement rather than other laws that are of course to be respected by a government leader. My starting point is that when a person is appointed as a state leader, a person shall comply with all the laws and regulations under which the mandate or the senior position is to be carried out and aligned. What we've done when it comes to the law on public procurement is that we've expanded our ability to complain about directly illegal purchases. We have also given the KOFA the opportunity to print a fine of up to 15 pst. of the value. Both measures will act as a preventative measure against non-compliance — in addition, of course, to the attention I have as the Council of State in this area. So at the moment, I'm not going to consider adding this to the tenancy contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e855	The Council of State now said that KOFA had been given access to fines. Is the accountable manager personally required to pay it, or is it the department? If it's the establishment, it really has zero meaning, except that the establishment is being tapped for some means. Otherwise it has zero meaning. It must be the manager responsible who may need to be fined if it is to have any effect. I think that a breach of the procurement rules is something other than a possibly poor management practice in the job in general, and I therefore find it sad that the Council of State rejects the full possibility that there should be personal consequences for managers who are violating Norwegian law here. It's not that easy for those in private business to escape. In addition, the Council of State could also comment on the Per-Christian Foss' idea, to which he asked for a comment, namely that perhaps SMK should also assume overall responsibility for some of the issues relating to the procurement regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e864	I would say that a very long time has gone by if you claim that what KOFA now has to pay for direct illegal purchases is of zero importance. On the contrary, we see that some state agencies have already been fined – I believe it was Vegvesenet that was first outside. I am sure that this has resulted in a significant increase in compliance with the procurement law of the State Road Administration after receiving such a fee. I am also convinced that if another state budget were to receive a fee, it would of course exacerbate compliance. But it's better just to be riced behind the mirror. My point is that state leaders are going to enforce all the laws and regulations in this country. It's in their mission. When we recruit state leaders, and when we have leadership talks with state leaders, the assignment, the letter of assignment, of course, is one of the priorities. Purchasing law is strengthened, for example, by: all my strange etats, and that is the basis for the leadership talks we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e871	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e874	I asked for the floor because of the comment and the contribution from the case-rapporteur, Ivar Skulstad, regarding the Ministry of Knowledge. Of course, we take all the comments from the National Audit Office and from the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs very seriously and try to follow up to the point of weakness. But I have to say that I was somewhat surprised at both the remark and the posts when it came to the gift enhancement system. The gift-enhancing mechanism has been mentioned both in the budget paper received by the Storting in connection with the revised national budget this year – then we were in the process of the scheme – and in St.prp. No 1, that is, the state budget, which the Storting is about to finalize. The background of the case is that in 2006 and 2007, gifts were paid to the universities of Bergen and Tromsø on the basis of private gifts given to foundations. The amount that was paid in gift enhancement is quite right 131 million. kr. These funds were paid to universities, but the funds transferred to foundations. On the part of the Ministry of Knowledge, we felt that gifts to foundations should not trigger a strengthening of gifts, and that the transfer of the gifts to the foundations was not in line with the guidelines and with the Storting's assumptions for the gift-enhancing scheme. That is why we wrote to the foundations in question and asked for the funds to be paid back to the state. This did not result, but the foundations have promised in a letter to the Ministry of Knowledge that the funds will be used in accordance with the purpose of the gift-enhancing scheme. The government assumes that the parties to this case have been in good faith. I can assure the representative that we have had a very cumbersome process on this, and that, after an overall assessment, we did not consider it reasonable to proceed with a claim for a refund. We presented this to the Stortinget in connection with the state budget, and the Stortinget adopted on 12 December this year, which is not very many days ago, the following Roman number decision: ‘The Board agrees that the Ministry of Knowledge in 2009 may waive the recovery of the grant reinforcement paid to the Bergen Research Foundation, the Bergen Medical Research Foundation and the Tromsø Research Foundation in breach of the guidelines of the scheme.’;» [[...]] So here we have done exactly what the Riksrevision and the Committee have asked us to do: we have put the matter before the Stortinget, and the Stortinget has taken a decision in the matter. We also used the opportunity in the context of the revised national budget to tighten up the scheme, so that it would not be possible to misunderstand what might be the legislation. We have, as I said, had a very thorough process on this, and I was therefore a little surprised that this remark is still hanging out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e892	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e895	When the Riksrevision has its reviews and points out relationships, the Progress Party takes it as a matter of course that these conditions are being taken into account. When that doesn't happen, I get very worried. I refer in particular to the National Audit Office's comments on the PDMT, the police's data and material service, where relations have been mentioned in the past, and which are again pointed out. The PDMT has a very special function in the police, a function that interferes with many of the police's tasks. When PDMT does not function properly, this may have consequences for, for example: police operational services. This may not be allowed and must be taken with the greatest seriousness. The Progress Party cannot accept that this reference from the National Audit Office becomes a repetition – for this has been pointed out earlier – and would therefore encourage support for the proposal to carry out an external evaluation of the PDMT reviewing the governance and follow-up of its local functionality. Then I would like to say a little about the watchkeeping companies, which have also been mentioned in the National Audit Office's report. Today, the police are not present – due to many circumstances, but most of them because of little funding – which means that the scope of the guard companies is growing. That's why it's very important that this is followed up, so that you can make sure that the security companies comply with the law, and that someone doesn't get to have bad events, which we've seen some of. Such incidents and events will weaken the confidence of the population in the companies and will not be a great advantage to either the watchtowers or the population. Guard companies depend on trust. The Ministry of Justice has asked the Police Directorate for an overview of police district control of the security companies, and the report says that the control activity should generally be at a much higher level. Well, a lot can get better, but when the report also says that the control activity is completely lacking in some districts, I'm very worried. The control of the security companies is in the police districts, but here the Ministry of Justice has a general responsibility and a responsibility that needs to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e907	Some words about the Ministry of Transport's territory, which gets some critical comments from the Riksrevision. I notice that the responsible State Council is not present. I assume that it is not a signal that you do not take the Riksrevisions seriously. Here, there are references to other departments as to the non-use of public acquisition legislation. It is of course alarming that activities with such substantial purchasing volumes as, for example, The State Road Administration, within the Ministry of Transport, is unable to carry out public procurement in a sound and well-known manner. We have also noted the strong criticism of a new vehicle and driving licence register in the Statens vägvesen by the National Audit Office. It is a system and a project that appears to be out of control, and unfortunately is a new reminder that the introduction of large IT systems in the country often turns out to be very difficult to control. First of all, we have noticed that the Riksrevision has looked at productivity and operating deviations in NSB passenger transport. It was on that basis that I had actually expected that the responsible State Council had been present when this matter was dealt with. It is so, sadly enough, that the productivity of NSB passenger transport is lower in 2007 than in 1997. It is also the case that there is an overall increase – with slightly different premises – that has pointed out that there are good and clear opportunities to absorb increased productivity in passenger transport to the NSB. For the time being, it remains to be seen whether the Council of State gets that productivity out. In the case of operational deviation, trains remain today. The number of planned train settings increases by more than 15 pst. from 2007, which is the year the Riksrevision has been in and out of this year. The main response from the responsible State Council is in the Question Time on 19 November: ‘I can’t see that the problem we now have is about organisational form. It is an under-financing of the railway system’. For those who are waiting for trains, this is a small satisfactory answer. From the point of view of the Advance Party, we assume that the Council of State is following up the management of operating deviations in passenger transport with NSB in a completely different way from that shown so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e923	The Ministry of Finance has comments on three issues, which we continue to follow up. One is a breach of procurement law, two direct purchases in the central government collection centre, which we are going to follow up. These are some different aspects of the Customs and Fee Setaten, which we are going to follow up, and these are some challenges for the Tax Setaten. That's the last thing I think is most important from what the Storting itself has been concerned about, to give some comments on. It is right, as the representative Hagen says, that the slogan for our government is "The whole people in work". But we haven't added «in the tax haven». After all, it is important to have a reasonably good balance between the sufficient number of employees in the Tax Agency, and that is what has been a challenge now in a high economic climate, to have competent people, whether lawyers or auditors, upon whom we depend in the Tax Agency in order to do a really good control job. However, the tax rate has been able to hold about the same number of checks. But what's a very big challenge in a high economy is that the number of start-ups of companies is going to be so huge, so that participation in how many can be controlled has been a very big challenge to be able to keep up. It is also the case that in a high economic cycle it is particularly important to keep track of the fact that there is good control that normal rules of play in relation to taxes and often other things, which are also related, are followed. This applies to enterprises that do not comply with the tax legislation, for example: as regards working conditions and the social dumping problem. It is often closely related. The tax revenue has increased in recent years. That's because we believe it politically is a very important work done. At the same time as these challenges linked to a boom, we have also had the challenges of reorganising the tax system. It's also an explanation that the number of checks has not been as high as we wanted. I am very concerned that we are going to have a high focus and high credibility around the work done in the tax haven. We have. They're effective. They have competent people. We have some challenges when it's a boom. We've had good budgets. They have a reorganization that will make them more effective. And then we're going to follow them very closely, too, because this is important, socially useful work. Then I count on the support of the Advance Party for all further proposals for the additions to the Skatetaten budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e941	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1615]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e957	I only have a few short notes. The Committee has chosen this time to comment only on two issues that will follow up on the Riksaudition. One is Document No. 3:12 for 2003–04, on grazing resources in Finnmark. There are measures in place, but the Riksrevision finds it premature to be able to comment on the impact of these measures. So here you'll have to wait a little while before possibly putting this thing away. The Committee agrees. The second case is Document No. 3:6 for 2004–2005, on the Research Council’s action programme. There are also measures that seem interesting to the Committee. The National Auditor says that it is too early to put this case away, and that one will follow it further. That is also the point made by the Committee. The remaining issues are then closed by the Court of Auditors, and that is also agreed by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e966	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1615]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e983	That's just a short comment. This applies to regulations. The Committee points out in its recommendation that powers to issue regulations in some cases are delegated to external bodies. If the Committee, or the Stortinget, is to have any possibility of verifying this at all, we ask that a list of such powers be annexed to the State Council Protocols and that, in that context, the control measures taken by the departments to ensure that regulations based on delegated powers are drawn up in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Stortinge. If they are attached, as we ask, at least we have the opportunity to go in and take samples and check that the regulations are in line with the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e990	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1615]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1006	I only have a few comments. The Committee hereby submits its opinion on the St.meldning. No 4 for 2008-2009. The committee is pleased with the message as it appears. She's clear and clear. It is important that the Committee be given a transparent layout. The Committee has repeatedly criticised the fact that parts of the follow-up have been commented on in the State budget and in the revised national budget. This has improved. In St.meld. No 4 we are told that there have been 24 call decisions in the period, which is a slight increase from the previous session. A report has also been submitted on the follow-up to eight Decisions from 2006 to 2007 and one Decision from 2006. The Committee does not comment on decisions which appear to have been followed up in a satisfactory manner. The Committee noted that no decision on distribution was taken in 2007-2008. I should also like to comment briefly on a few specific comments we have in the Progress Party, alone or together with others. Decision No. 1 shall apply to the first debt. 391, 7 March 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider the introduction of external sensor requirements for all higher education.’ Here my progress party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that what the government has done so far is not sufficient. We believe that the government here should have set deadlines for the distribution work and had a plan to present legislative proposals now for spring, so that the laws could come into force from the autumn of 2009. One also thinks that the government is changing language from the wording of the decision, and so we are of the opinion that this decision is not fulfilled by the Government, as the Storting decided. The party of government is of a different opinion. The second decision I would like to comment on is Decision No. 331, 18 December 2006: ‘In order to give former juvenile criminals a new chance, the Government asks the Government to investigate a system of eradicating scrolls in cases where young criminals have not committed serious crimes, or a large number of repeated crimes and, for example, have not committed new crimes for a period of 5 years after the age of 18. For example, the question may be included in the mandate of the sample set up in the St.meld proposals. [[2005-2006]] No 20 The members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party believe that this matter has taken too long. We thought it was a reasonable demand from us that the next big-time message on the matter be briefed. With these few words, I would recommend to the committee that decisions be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1038	The left is not in the Control and Constitutional Committee, so I'm going to use the opportunity to attach a comment to one case. It's case no. 331 under the Ministry of Justice, which in practice deals with police records legislation. It is probably about the toughest thing to say in fine parliamentary language, that it has taken 'unreasonably long'. I'll add: almost irreproachably long time. The law this is about, it's about three relationships. It's about the efficiency of the police's work. It's about being able to do what's initially in the request decision that exists, that's, that someone can come in, and that someone can get out of a system. In other words, it is also about legal certainty, and it is about fundamental privacy. I know well about the matter, in the sense that it was planned to be promoted in 2007. And it's not 2007 now, it's autumn 2008 – and then comes 2009. So on behalf of the Left, I would like to express that the Left fully agrees that this matter has taken an unreasonable amount of time. We also agree with what it says that ‘it is expected that the Ministry will explain in more detail the follow-up to next year’s notification’. But before that, of course, we have to get the case on the table, so that the result of the police registry committee's work is there. Although there has been work on a framework decision in the EU – in most areas where we have Norwegian legislation – I know so much about the close contact between the Norwegian departments and the EU systems in Brussels that I think you can keep up to date in a lot of ways. There is a lot of work that can be completed. Here, with the unanimous wording of the Committee, it has taken «an immeasurably long time». From the left side, I would like to underline it, as well as what was said in the previous article at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1049	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1615]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1065	It is relatively rare, but in this case, the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has chosen to make a separate communication to the Grand Duchy following an inquiry by the Ombudsman into the 2005 and 2006 Equations Committee on special deductions for the extra large costs of diabetes. In the past, there was in practice some kind of stencil system, where all those who were diagnosed with diabetes could automatically deduct up to a certain amount of their claims for the additional costs incurred by the disease. It seemed, as many have claimed, relatively satisfactory, but nevertheless the scheme was a little special in relation to other diseases that are also subject to the general right of deduction for particular large costs of disease. It was therefore amended. The Ombudsman has then carried out an inquiry based on complaints — many complaints — of a significant degree of discrimination. That is exactly what is one of the main findings of the Ombudsman. It is an overall committee which points out that: ‘The reason for this discrimination is that the guidelines given by central tax authorities for the application of the law provided too much room for local discretion in the control of individual taxpayers’ requirements for special deductions due to diabetes’. In other words, a dilemma between having a high degree of local discretion versus a strict regulatory framework that prevents greater equality in the equation throughout the country. It is also an overall committee that recalls the major challenges facing both the equality authorities and this group of taxpayers, and the importance of the uniform application of the tax law and the Equation Act, irrespective of the place where the taxpayers live in the country, and the tax office and the case handler responsible for the Equation Treatment. The Committee therefore supports the civil ombudsman’s hope that the new guidelines in Equations-ABC will facilitate the uniform application of the first paragraph of the Tax Act to the additional costs of diabetics. It is also a joint committee which considers it positive that these discriminations have now been addressed by the setting up of an inter-ministerial working group to assess the scheme as a whole and it is assumed that a new system can be implemented at the earliest from the fiscal year 2011. Then I will be allowed to take up the minority proposal of the members of the Progress Party in the Committee. We, along with the others, want to point out the positive, that there is a working group that is now going to look at the whole scheme. However, we believe that, from now on – from the fiscal year 2008 until a new regime comes – the previous stencil rule should be reinstated in the practice of the equation, so that the degree of discrimination now pointed out by the Stortinge Ombudsman for administration was not reached. In these three years, it should have been fully possible – and it should have been easy and simple – just to reintroduce the practices that were previously, with stencil rules, so that everyone who is subject to the diagnosis will be deducted – I think it was just over 9 000 kroner – an amount determined by the tax authorities centrally, that is, the department or the Tax Directorate, similar to all those who have this diagnosis. Of course, those who can document additional costs beyond the regulatory framework we have in mind will still benefit from the tax exemption. This is a matter that has attracted a lot of attention in this patient group. A lot of people think it's completely unreasonable that it's the residence address, or maybe also the assignment of a special equation operator to the individual tax office, who decides whether it's accepted deductions or not accepted deductions. I don't think we can have it like that. I was going to ask the Minister of Finance if she could guarantee that sending out any guidelines or making sure that the new guidelines in Equations-ABC are practiced much more consistently and equally than what has happened in the past is being followed up by the tax authorities centrally. But I assume that the Minister of Finance has had something more important to take into account than to participate in the debate and confirm that she will do what is necessary in her capacity as Minister of Finance to ensure that there is as much discrimination as possible, since, unfortunately, the Progress Party is only about the most sensible thing in the vote: to reintroduce the old template rule for the three years, until we get a new system from the working group that I am assuming is now reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1089	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1092	Diabetes is a life-threatening chronic disease that causes great stress to the person with diabetes, family and society. The disease requires considerable self-esteem. Every day, the whole year, the rest of life, the individual with diabetes has to make tough choices. At least 200,000 people have diabetes in Norway today. About 25 000 have type 1 diabetes, the rest have type 2 diabetes. As of the 2005 Equation Year, the rules for special deductions for large costs of disease were amended. For people with diabetes, the changes meant that it was no longer sufficient to estimate additional costs in the form of a medical certificate. The new rules led to much more work for diabetics and unnecessary discrimination from the equality offices of those concerned. This is reflected in the Ombudsman’s study of the 2005 and 2006 Equation Procedures. The timely development of new guidelines is always important. It is particularly important for those who may experience discrimination and where change may lead to a deterioration in the life situation or other adverse effects on chronically ill people. Such guidance was first given in Equation ABC for 2007. This has contributed to the fact that many things have been in the subject of equations and the subject of overlap in many municipalities, to the great frustration of those involved. A number of the additional costs of diabetes are of such a nature that they are very difficult to document. The changes have therefore resulted in difficult extra work for the individual. The large amount of bureaucracy associated with obtaining special deductions due to diabetes may result in many, especially those who need the most deduction, having no surplus and resources to carry out demanding complaints. Lack of knowledge about diabetes may also weaken treatment. In December 2006, there were some changes in the rules. Despite the efforts of the Minister of Finance to clean up, the situation remains difficult for diabetics. That is why I am very pleased to note that the Government of St.prp. No 1 for 2008-2009, Tax, Tax and Customs Decisions, address the problem with special deductions for large disease costs with the aim of achieving a more appropriate and fair system. Personally, I would like this work to be completed before, so that it could come into force from 2010. But now it's going to be a review of all the chronicles' rights. It's positive, and then it's probably important to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1113	The system of tax deductions for large costs of disease due to diabetes was revised from the financial year 2005. There's been a lot of worry about this afterwards. The Christian People's Party believes it is good that the Civil Ombudsman has gone into the matter on the basis of all the requests he received for discrimination. His review shows that the conversion for diabetics was difficult to deal with for the authority of the equation. A specific test of the deduction requirements has been a resource-requirement of the EQS. At the same time, it has resulted in nine-hour documentation work for each diabetic. At first, not enough key guidelines were given. The guidelines and legal work of the EQS had to do with them provided little guidance on how any additional costs, for example: would be measured against the costs of regular diet. As the rapporteur said, the guidelines opened up to a great deal of local discretion. This led to large differences in diabetic treatment both during the treatment of the equation in 2005 and in 2006. Only in Equation-ABC for 2007 will clearer rules be laid down on how to measure additional costs of diabetic diets against normal dietary costs. The 2004 decision — it may be interesting to look back on it — was based on a letter from the Ministry of Health and Welfare to the Ministry of Finance that people with diabetes did not have special additional dietary expenses. But in the last year's budget position of the Health and Welfare Committee, the Christian People's Party, together with the Progress Party, pointed out that it is now documented that people with diabetes actually have more expenditure on, among other things. diet. It was in a report from the Social and Health Directorate of November 2007 that this was pointed out. Studies also show that today’s system, as it works per year, is Today, social inequality is created because people with low incomes and old age are the ones who actually have the greatest difficulty in documenting the extra costs they have for dieting as a result of their illness. Such information is important. A general stencil deduction for people with diabetes is both simpler and more equitable than today’s requirement for individual evidence of additional expenditure. This matter has been raised as an input to the Health and Care Committee for several years, in fact since it was amended. That it was changed, many people have to take responsibility for it. The government mentions this matter in St.prp. No 1 for 2008-2009, Tax, Tax and Customs Decisions. It is positive that the Government will review the Civil Ombudsman’s opinions and now consider measures that can meet them. It is also good that the Government will set up a selection to review the whole system of special deductions for large costs of disease with a view to achieving a more appropriate and fair system. We're looking forward to this review, which is going to take some time. That is why the Christian People's Party will be part of the Progress Party's proposal to temporarily reintroduce the old stencil system. I see the Minister of Finance is here, and I could expect to ask for an assessment of this possibility. Although the government parties do not agree to this in the hall today and vote for it, it would have been nice if you could look at a temporary reintroduction of the template system, before you might come up with a different and more comprehensive arrangement for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1130	No more words requested [[State Councillor Kristin Halvorsen whistles]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1133	I am very sorry that for a moment I fell for the temptation to whistle on the President, it should not repeat itself! But I was informed that there was an interest in this matter when I was about to leave Stortinget. This is a matter that we have had a lot of attention around, and the system conversion we inherited from the previous government. There are good reasons why you should have the same system for diabetics as you have for anyone else who has disease costs. Diabetics are also in quite different types of situations. There is no doubt that it has been demanding both for tax authorities and for individuals to find a system that takes account of the fact that diabetics can be in different types of situations, but that equal treatment is available at the same time, so that similar cases are treated equally. We have had many enquiries with the tax authorities about this. We've made sure that the equation ABC has clearer formulations around this field, and we're working to find an understanding that diabetics know that in the same case you're being treated equally. But this has been a significant challenge. There is no alternative but to follow it up, no matter how to deal with this case, if you do not get more uniform treatment for diabetics around. If you were to go back to the old stencil, there would be other disease groups who would have realized that it's incredibly unfair to them. So we're working on the case. I am concerned that diabetics should not spend as much time on their statements and their documentation as they have done, and we also have a good dialogue with the Diabetes Association on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1144	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1147	It must be a logical flaw when the Minister of Finance, the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen, says that she also shares the desire for equal treatment, and that one should save diabetics for all the extra work they have today with their declarations and documentation, when she obviously does not want to reintroduce the template rule for these three years. I would like to stress that our proposal and our idea is that we wait for the whole system, where it's natural that diabetics might be compared and treated in the same way as other groups of chronic diseases, but that's true in these years until we get the new system. Here, as far as we understand, the cost of the tax rate is likely to be about as high as any additional income due to the fact that there are many who get the approval of less deductions than they could have received. The simplest and most logical is in this three-year period – if we say it takes three years – to reintroduce the template rule. It will guarantee and ensure the diabetics what the Council of State claims she too wants, while reducing the tax base significantly. Will the Council review this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1156	I have come to a different conclusion from Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party – and I also understand the Christian People's Party – on this issue. That's because these kinds of problems we come up with when it comes to other people who are suffering from chronic disease, not just diabetics. It's incredibly difficult to find systems that don't make new groups, which aren't diabetics, feel they're going to get into a challenging situation in relation to this. That's why we've concentrated on finding a solution for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1161	Then I only have one more question. Is it then to understand that the Ministry of Finance has had a wide range of enquiries from other patient organisations that have actually complained and warned that if you reintroduced the template rule for diabetics for a three-year period, they would protest loudly and think that this is completely wrong? Or is this a hypothetical situation that the Minister of Finance, or perhaps the Minister of Finance's subjects in the Department, have found to prevent this change that has now been in mind? As far as I know, no one has come up with any warning of any problems or any trouble in relation to these three years, until you get a complete system for everyone with large costs of disease that are better than the old one. So I guess it's a real problem, unless, of course, the Council of State can confirm that there's a whole bunch of letters from different patient organisations that warn against a temporary reintroduction of the diabetic template rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1167	My experience is that these kinds of warnings never come until you may have made a change. They always come afterwards, demanding the same type of change separately. That's when you get into the demarcation problems that can be challenged. Most other organisations do not care about hypothetical or thoughtful proposals for changes for one group. They relate to what is ultimately adopted. So this is based on experience, not on the basis of the bunkers of enquiries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1172	I meant to hear that the Minister of Finance said it could be unfair for others to reintroduce a stencil system for diabetics temporarily. As far as I remember, only diabetics have had this stencil system in the past. Therefore, there should not be as many people as they want to shout about it, if they got it back for a temporary period. Actually, I don't think any of the other patient organisations or groups would react to that, because it's diabetics who are particularly vulnerable. As I was in my post, it concerns those with the weakest economy, who are perhaps older, who have not so easily managed to sort and collect all these receipts. There's a lot of work. We're asking for an assessment. Maybe the council doesn't answer right here and now that yes, I do, but take a little new round in the department about whether you should be able to do this!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1179	There have also been quite a number of misunderstandings, to which the representative Davøy now refers, because there are many who have believed that they must take care of every single receipt, while the Equation Office has asked for it, is a presumption of what is the extra cost. It's perfectly obvious that this is an area where we need to make clearer and clearer simplifications. Because it's true, as the representative Davøy says, many people who are chronically ill have no extra resources to use to fill in their declaration. The representative Bavøy is right, it's the diabetics who have had a special arrangement. But of course, there are a lot of other groups of chroniclers who could well imagine a similar arrangement. After all, they would have had a good argument for, at least during a transitional period, the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1184	Now I'm a little bit wondering what this is about, because the diabetic stencil system has gone on food costs. It is difficult to document, and has led to some of us having to have an extra drawer in the office for receipts. If you have higher costs than the ones that the stencil says, there is no problem in documenting it in addition, if you introduce a stencil. So I don't understand what groups there are that can protest at the introduction of template because of injustice? For expenditure beyond the stencil, it must be possible to document, as it was before the stencil was removed. Which groups have the kind of hard-to-documentable expenditure, that the food costs something else because you have to buy different food? I am also a little uncertain about what the receipt collection can actually document the sail if there are many documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1191	I wonder if we're starting to get a little bit down in the drawers for the debate. Clearly, there are many chroniclers who believe that they benefit from a special diet and who believe that it matters how they deal with their disease situation. It applies to all such cases — whether in the case of taxes or restrictions on VAT or what they may be — that changes in the rules in one field of course trigger the desire for regulatory changes in other fields. This is a challenge we've had for a long time. The last finance minister had it before me. Diabetics have had this challenge in relation to the understanding of this legislation. We work together well to try to find a solution, as described in the Stortinget documents, and we're going to find a solution to this that makes it more transparent for diabetics.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1200	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1203	Just a brief orientation: in the light of the debate that has taken place, we in the Left also want to support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1208	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1615]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1224	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1616]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1240	This is a study showing that there are still weaknesses, in part, in the preservation and preservation of collections at four State museums. This is a follow-up study, which has been based on four of the museums surveyed in the first round, which shows that there have been some good and significant improvements since 2002, but that this relates in particular to the safe area and not to the conservation area. What's this about? It's – if you're going to say it a little solemn, and when you talk about museums, maybe it's in place – to preserve the knowledge of our civilization. Because if old collections are lost, knowledge about our own past is also lost. I just want to start by telling you a little story that I think is interesting: the Natural History Museum in Oslo has geological collections, collections of different stones – as we would call it with an amateur concept – from earlier times, among others. from the expeditions of Fridtjof Nansen in the northern waters. These collections are now used as a basis for investigations for oil companies to start drilling in the northern waters, for reasons that I am not professionally able to explain very deeply. But these rocks also tell us something about the seabed. So this historical material is mostly for use today as well. Other parts of the collection will provide us with new knowledge of our civilization millions of years back in the coming years. From a historical perspective – and the history of our own civilization is important – these collections too are important. The National Audit Authority's follow-up study underlines that, as I said, improvements have been made in the field of security, because that is often the cheapest. It means lockable doors, fireproof doors, etc., while conservation conditions remain critical. Here we point out – and that is what the department, as far as I understand, agrees – that it is essentially about new buildings, but that something can happen by improving the building conditions at the museums, as they are today. A few examples of improvement have been mentioned. At the Natural History Collections at the Bergen Museum, relatively simple measures, clean-up and reorganization have improved the storage conditions for some of the collections, but there is still a significant need for reconstruction, modernisation and new buildings in Bergen. The same example can also be taken from the University of Oslo, where the cultural historical collections at the disposal of the university's own resources have been given access to a new building – which is now being used – which is of the highest standard in terms of storage conditions. But it's just the cultural-historical collections and not the natural-historical collections that hold the Tøjen. There is mainly a question of new buildings on the list. Together, this is a relatively large amount. Based on figures from State Building, although they are old now, from 2006, they are expenditure in the range of DKr 1.2 to DKr 1.3 billion. It may be more reasonable to do so now than it was in 2006, and I would strongly encourage the Councils of State and the Government to give priority to this, not just in future budgets. Now, the Government is facing a crisis package, which is due to be presented in January/February, where there are a number of measures in the university field, including in the areas mentioned here, which are potters to be realized in the current year, and which can improve both the building standard, storage conditions and security conditions and also people employed. So the Committee calls for the need for new buildings to be given priority in future budgets. However, there are also opportunities in this area to give priority to simple actions that can be launched in the next calendar year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1255	This is a unanimous attitude, and that means that all that the representative Foss said, I'm going to quit without further ado. There have been improvements to the museum collections, fortunately. There has been considerable funding both during my Council of State and during the Council of State of Kristin Clemet, a total of 160 million. kr extra in addition to what universities themselves use for this. But that has not been enough, because the aftermath was formidable. The reason why I now took the floor was to follow up the representative Foss concluded with, namely that although we write in the setting that we expect this to be followed up in future budgets, there is now an opening in connection with a package of measures announced in the month change of January/February. And that's absolutely right: a lot of these projects have been completed, all they need is money. On the Tøen we have pot-ready projects, and we also have pot-ready projects at many other universities where the museum collections can be included. But it is especially at Tøjen in Oslo and also in Bergen that the deficiencies are large, and that means that these should be given special priority. This also has a different dimension. Now it is possible to say that you have an action package, which allows you to get projects started a little before, but you should not underestimate that the whole purpose of the museum collections is not only the knowledge that is there, but this is also our memory – this is our whole story. This means that we have a special responsibility to care for these collections in a way that allows future generations to have cultural experiences about this, of course, in addition to what Foss had to say, namely that there is knowledge in this material that we have never known, but that can be used today, with new technology, in order to produce new knowledge. But let me underline the independent arguments for the collections – not just from the perspective of the knowledge contained in the material – namely that the history of our people and the memory of our people lie in these collections. There is an independent reason why some money should now be found in an action package, including before the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1268	The museums are important social institutions. They will manage our cultural and natural heritage and make it available for research, learning and experience. It is therefore also important that the museums are able to do a real job in relation to the values we have acquired from previous generations. Good management of this inheritance is both an obligation and a privilege imposed on any new generation. Against this background, it is reassuring that the Riksrevision has done so much thorough work in two rounds in relation to some selected among the major museum institutions. I refer you to the rapporteur's good and pointed out. The National Audit Office’s report shows that this work has produced results in the form of improvements and upgrades in several vital areas of the institutions concerned. When I catch the word, it's to stress that even though a lot has already been done since the first report was made, there's still a lot left. Of course, the reports say nothing about the state of the other museums in the country. However, I am aware that a reform in the museum area has been working for a long time, with a view to consolidating to fewer units. The aim of this reform is, above all, to ensure a forward-looking management of cultural heritage and to make buildings, objects and material attractive to a large audience. It's to hope that you succeed in this work. On this basis, it is natural in this round to ask the existing government councils whether they can say anything about the representativeness of the National Audit Office's references, in the sense that they also apply to the other museums. Now I don't expect to get any answers from this Council of State about the state of a department area that is not hers, but I think at least it's important to ask the question. I am asking about this on the basis of the fact that five — later four — random checks have now been carried out by selected institutions and found reason to focus the search light on both poor securing, poor storage and storage conditions and weaknesses in the internal management of organisations. Of course, on that occasion you think about how the state can be at the many other museums. Is it likely that the Riksrevision study and observation had a transfer value, or have a transfer value, in relation to the other museums, which also triggers improvements at the other museums? I say like the poet, I only ask. I don't know if I have the right to expect a response to this right now. There's also another important reason to ask about this. It is a fact that culture and cultural institutions generally belong to what I would call a light policy area, which would be a balancing item when budgets are to be sewn together. This applies not least in the municipal sector, where the responsibility for many of the museums lies. Especially at a time when we seem to be on our way into a recession, when, in the time to come, there will have to be even stronger households with the resources of society, there is reason to call out a warning, and I ask, what is the status quo? What is the future of Norwegian museum institutions? Will they receive the attention they deserve as cultural heritage managers? I have to say that the inspections carried out by the Committee some time ago gave a strong impression. Both conservation conditions and work places were far from what they should be in 2008. Lack of space, cramped, worn-out and inappropriate premises and adverse climate conditions were some of what we could see. It was not least at the Natural History Museum in Oslo, but also at the Bergen Museum. It may be because people who work in the cultural sector — including those who work at museums, researchers and others — have an idealistic attitude to their work and are doing it with great zeal despite the conditions under which they work. But this must not be a sleeping cushion for us. I just want to end up as strongly as I can stress the need for continued follow-up of the museums according to the pattern the Riksrevision has pulled up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1285	The collections that this is about are amazing – both the people who have gathered them, the situation in which they are gathered, and what it is. We now see that new technology offers new opportunities to get things out of these collections that we might not have dreamed of. We have e.g. The Nansen's collected materials, which originate from areas that have been used for testing by the Russian side, that we can now use to see what consequences it has had on nature in the area. There are enormous opportunities that lie in the use of technology on this material. But what we also see is that it's a big task to take care of this. It's such a big task that there's often been a down-priority in high-level budgets. I just have to stress that we in the Left are very concerned that these collections are going to be linked to the universities. There has been broad agreement here that the university museums' connection to universities is very important. It is important for our view on education in a society, but it is also important for the view on the link between research and collection management. One must nevertheless take into account that it has been a great task for our universities to take care of these collections, given the way we budget here. I think I want to stress, as many others have done here, that very many of these projects are very ready for launch. If I were to help the state council now, which is busy getting backing in her fight, if she were to create crisis packages and need turnkey projects, many people are ready in this area. It is important to preserve our cultural heritage, but it is also important in terms of dissemination. I've been to the Darwin Centre in London and seen how what for some are boring collections is a wonderful experience for others. I've not only looked at Nansen's collections here, but also Darwin's collections, which are exhibited in the Darwin Centre. There you can see how a natural history museum can use it that you have huge quantities of jars with samples, to actually create an experience, and connect it to convey research and to make research more accessible in a fantastic way. So if you're able to think not only about taking care of jars and paintings, but also build up a warehouse in a way that allows someone to convey something in the way an engineer stores, it opens up a huge opportunity for us to convey this knowledge to those who use the museums, and to those who use the museums for research material. I hope that we don't just create boring stockpiles, but that we're actually going to create a very exciting experience center related to the stocks we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1296	As the responsible State Council of the University Museums, I appreciate both the National Audit Office's study in this area, one in 2002 and another in 2007. I would also like to say that I value greatly the commitment that the Storting shows to these important matters. It is true, as the representative Lånke said, that my responsibility in this matter does not extend to the museums under the Ministry of Church and Culture, but I can without delay give an answer to the question whether this is a typical situation for all the museums. There is probably a variety of quality, and I would like to point out something that actually stands in the setting with reference to the 2002 Riksrevision Survey, where, for example: Archaeological museum in Stavanger, now a university museum, did not participate in the study because the conservation and security conditions were better than those of the other museums. So there are some points of light. There are some museums that have managed to do a good job. But also at that museum, there are challenges, I will honestly admit that. The study now carried out, to which the documents refer today, refers in particular to the Natural History Museum and Cultural History Museum at the University of Oslo and to the Bergen Museum. It is important for me to stress that these are important parts of the functioning of universities. It's not just about preserving collections, although it's important, but it's also incredibly important for research and dissemination and, of course, for visits by both younger and older generations. I'm glad there's any improvement. I see it as my responsibility to continue such a positive development, and I am also very pleased with the actions my predecessors in the State Council post have taken in the very field of university museums. As far as the University of Bergen is concerned, it aims to establish new time-scale magazines for parts of the collections in the Realfachbau during 2009 and they want to rehabilitate the museum building at Muséplatsen 3 for exhibition purposes. With regard to both the Oslo museums and the museums in Bergen, which are university museums, in both of these areas the universities themselves have to be able to use their own resources to do this, but beyond that, of course, I feel a responsibility for it on behalf of the Government. The Ministry has concluded that time-consuming warehouses and necessary technical functions at the Natural History Museum on Tøenen cannot be established within the framework of the building mass currently present. That's why we've asked the University of Oslo to start planning a new construction on Tøjen for these functions. We have also provided a big message that Stortinget discussed in our, St.meld. No 15 for 2007-2008, Tingene's speech, in which the situation of the university museums is very well described, and in which we propose how the construction problem at the university museums can be solved over a 15-20 year period. These are very old buildings that we are talking about, and that is often what the challenge is. The report of the National Audit Office shows that both the Ministry of Knowledge and universities have short-term and long-term challenges for the museums, and in order to launch the more short-term measures — or to continue with the good work started — over the last few years, a total of 175 million has been allocated. Extra kroner. This, of course, we will aim to follow up. In the competition for budgetary resources, this is a very important matter for me to be followed up. We have also earmarked funds for this in the 2009 draft budget. However, the Ministry is pleased that the National Audit Office's study shows that there are improvements, not only in the different establishments and collections for which the museums are responsible, but also in the management of the university museums, and that more professional leadership is provided than in the past. In the department we work on this in our letter of assignment, and in our management talks with the universities, which have a responsibility for the university museums, we also work with a awareness of the university museums as our common memory. We want the collection to be accessible to important user groups. That is why we proposed in the Stortinget’s big message, a national digital university museum, to disseminate knowledge and information to the research community, to the administration and to the public. In the extension of the treatment that Stortinget had, we have reduced a sample that investigates a national digital university museum and that will deliver its report in the spring of 2009. In order to strengthen research and ensure more targeted collection management, we have made 5 million available. kr for a strategic research effort for the university museums. The Norwegian Research Council is now developing this action in cooperation with the Ministry. I want to join in what several speakers here have been talking about in terms of the importance of museums as our national memory, and also as very fine venues for experiences and getting acquainted with the past – and with the future, which we look forward to with excitement. This is why university museums have a particularly important task in their dissemination to children and young people, and as their core tasks they have research, management and communication to the public. Therefore, I attach great importance to ensuring that the material is not confused, but preserved for future generations. And I can assure the speakers who have also mentioned it, that having the challenges of university museums with them in the action packages that are now being discussed in the Government has been, for me, a matter of course – I have brought them with me. I do my best to follow it up, and I appreciate the support I have also received here in the hall for exactly that part of the package of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1326	The Committee, as noted by the rapporteur and others, had a very interesting visit to the Tøjen in Oslo during this discussion, for example. Geological museum with geological collections. Geology is something that goes back in time, it's old things. Museums in general have old things, but having old things doesn't really mean that those who work there have jobs that are so old that they're museums in themselves. I would like to say from Stortinget's pulpit that I think it would have been entirely in place if the Labour Inspectorate in Oslo carried out a similar inspection of the workplaces, as the Committee did. I have a lot of problems seeing that it wouldn't lead to quite dramatic remarks. When the country's authorities have not been conscious of their responsibilities by keeping a minimum of quality in their jobs for their employees, we have to use the usual authorities that have the opportunity to make specific instructions, which unwise leaders may not have been able to stop in universities or departments so far. For the husband of what we found on Tøen, at least I haven't seen. Now it can be said that I have not been around so much, but I am pretty sure that it had been in the private sector, the Landsorganisation and the trade union movement had not approved such jobs. It is sad, because the geological collections – as also mentioned by the case-rapporteur – also run with modern things. They accept assignments from the oil industry, look at samples from drilling, etc., to look at geology in different areas. I must also mention that I was particularly pleased with our visit to the geological collections, where we were presented for something that I am now going to have permanently in my pocket, like the rule of action and some quotations from the mulla Krekar. It's the International Geological Time Scale, a little colorful case that goes back 500 million years and shows the different times, and that has its own overview of the sea level, that is, the altitude of the oceans. As we walked around, I showed this to one of the people we had got it from, and asked if he could kindly give me a good explanation that the water level in the oceans – as far as I can see – 15-20 million years ago was 300-400 meters higher than it is today. It was confirmed. Yes, 15–20 million years ago, the water level was 300–400 metres higher. My question was, of course, how much CO2 man-made was what happened 15-20 million years ago? The answer was of course that it was zero, because we were not very prominent here on the globe that time. So I asked, if that's the case that it wasn't man-made CO2, what's the reason why it could be man-made CO2 that creates climate problems and growth at sea level now? None of those I asked could give me any reasonable answer. I got the impression that there was someone here who saw things the same way I did. It was very reassuring, for these are science-trained personnel, unlike most people who express themselves strongly about climate, who have no scientific experience at all. The most famous of our people, the head of CICERO, is, as everyone now knows, educated with master's thesis in rabies at polar reefs – as if it had anything to do with climate. It was a very polite, pleasant and pleasant visit to those who work at the Natural History Museum in Tøen in Oslo. All of them deserve a much better job, and much more respect for a part of their scientific views, which I hope they have the courage to say in the open room – even if they walk around and are terrified of being punished with less appropriations of a red-green government, if they allow themselves to have an incorrect political view of scientific matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1350	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fooding, see page 1616]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1366	We're not going to be as far back in time as the representative Hagen just did here. Today, the size is to deal with one side of the so-called Terra case, namely the Vik letter. Most of the Committee's comments are based on all parties, but the Progress Party has a special comment on this matter, focusing on those in charge of the department who did not respond when they learned that the Vik letter was used in the marketing of Terra to make other municipalities invest in such products. I expect the Progress Party itself to elaborate on its particular comment, if they consider it necessary. The purpose of the Riksrevisionen study has been to examine the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs’ treatment and follow-up of the Vik letter. This letter deals with the financial sale of concession power and the relationship with Paragraph 50 of the Local Government Act. 1 and § 59a nr. 1st@item: inlistbox The letter from Vik is dated 20 September 2002. In 2001, Vik Municipality made an agreement for the financial sale of the concession power rights to the municipality. The agreement was that Vik Municipality was paid a one-off amount that the municipality invested in securities. The local authority considered that the agreement had to be treated in the same way as a loan, and that the agreement was therefore contrary to Section 50 of the Local Government Act. The question was raised for the County of Sogn and Fjordane, which submitted the matter to the Ministry. The ministry concluded in a letter dated 20 September 2002 that the agreement was not a loan, so we got the so-called Vik letter for treatment. In its examination, the Committee, like the Riksrevision, stressed that municipalities have a separate responsibility for interpreting and complying with the municipal law. They are responsible for their own financial issues. In addition, the County Council’s legality checks show that the Terra municipalities had breached the municipal law and their own financial regulations when they invested in risky financial products. However, the follow-up to the Vik letter shows that a specific requirement must be imposed on the department in the treatment of interpretations of the law and the subsequent circular work. As the Riksrevision has pointed out – and KRD agrees – there is no doubt that the Vik letter should have been handled at a higher level in the ministry than it was. The study shows that the Ministry used both its economic and legal competence in the proceedings, but did not provide sufficient detail in the 2002 case data. The Ministry’s reason for concluding as they did was that concessional income covered the payment obligation in the agreement, which meant that the agreement would not distort future service production. We all now know how it went with that case. The Terra case is a major and serious matter for the municipalities that have been affected. The population is affected by a deterioration in service production, and several municipalities have used up all their reserves. We will be able to see the aftermath of the Terra case for a long time, both in the media and in the context of these municipalities presenting their budgetary and financial plans in the future. Governments have put in place some measures to remedy the Terra municipalities, and that has been absolutely necessary. The Committee stresses that the Vik case was of a principle nature. However, if the management of the department has had control and knowledge of the issues, as they claim, such fundamental issues should be given priority. In 2006, the Ministry carried out a new review based on the same data as during the 2002 review. The new treatment showed that Vik Municipality had an uncovered liability that had to be covered by the other funds in the municipality. An overall committee considers it highly critical that the municipality was not informed of these new assessments in a meeting with the Ministry as late as September 2007. Of course, these assessments should have received all municipalities and county councils immediately after they were present. The Vik letter and the treatment of this also have a different dimension. The National Audit Office's investigations are important for many reasons and require auditors to have independent access to the file in the departments. This has not been the case in this case, and it seems a little unnecessary and little flexible. If the person to be examined is to decide for himself what to access the audit, it may be difficult to demonstrate that the review is independent. In this context, it is also important to refer to the treatment of the Grand Duchy’s new law on the National Audit Office in the Netherlands. O. No 54 for 2003–2004. There is a clear premise that such transparency should be provided. With this, I recommend the Stortinget to take such a decision as the majority of the committee proposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1389	This case is not the Terra case in its complex whole. It's important to underline. The case concerns the examination by the National Audit Office of a letter written by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to the Municipality of Vik on 20 September 2002 and the follow-up by KRD to Vik Municipality's investments in securities covered by the municipality's rights to concession power. In retrospect, the letter sent by KRD to Vik Municipality on 20 September 2002 was based on an incorrect understanding of Vik Municipality's agreement with Terra and an incorrect interpretation of the municipal law. Let me first say that SV supports the majority position. That is why I would also refer to the excellent examination of the matter by the rapporteur. Although much went wrong in Vik and the seven other municipalities that made similar agreements with Terra, it is important not to allow the clock to control our assessments of how the Terra municipalities and the department behaved. The minority's additional remark unfortunately bears, in my opinion, a little too much of such an understanding. These are also issues that will be brought to justice. Nor should we forget that the highest price for Terra's placing of municipal money in dubious US securities is paid by the residents of the eight municipalities. Older people and children receive reduced services because large losses have to be covered. The Terra case was in many ways the first warning in Norway about the financial crisis now affecting our country. Fortunately, we have a well-functioning financial system, and we have state regulations that prevent that kind of crisis, and that dampen the results. The contrast with the United States, where the Terra money was wasted and speculated away, is fortunately great. In the study on the Vik case, the National Audit Board has asked two basic questions: Has Vik Municipality followed the applicable procedures and requirements for good practice? To what extent has KRD satisfactorily followed up the Vik letter? In short, the Riksrevision and the Committee consider that KRD should consider the Vik case more thoroughly and in principle in 2002. It should have been achieved more quickly and communicated to the municipalities that such agreements were, in reality, risky financial positions based on exposure to future revenues. This is illegal. The new municipal law of 2001 no longer allowed borrowing for the purchase of securities. It is also clear that the department should have followed up the matter much more closely after they sent the Vik letter, as they announced. And the warning lights should definitely have flashed when the Ministry found out in 2006 that the municipality had an agreement with DnB Market, meant that Vik Municipality had an unsecured liability that had to be covered by other means in the municipality. The ministry believed the process was wrong. However, it does not relieve the municipalities of the responsibility for the fact that the loans that were raised were contrary to the municipal law. The municipalities have a separate responsibility for interpreting and complying with the municipal law, and they are responsible for their own financial arrangements. Nevertheless, the responsibility of the department is clear. Both the Riksrevision and the Committee are clear that the Ministry has a general guidance responsibility under the municipal law. The interpretations made by the Ministry will be highly weighted and used as legal sources by state officials, municipalities and county councils. It is likely particularly important to consider clarifications in principle after legislative changes. This should have been done more thoroughly by the department. KRD was notified by the county because the municipal auditor thought the agreement between Vik kommune and Terra Fonds ASA had to be treated as a loan, and that the agreement was therefore contrary to the municipal law § 50. The Ministry of Justice's law department has concluded that the municipal auditor was right, and that KRD continued to misrepresent the law through the Vik letter. The municipal auditor in Sogn is obviously one of the warnings you should have listened to better. It could have saved a lot. KRD's letter to the municipality of Vik was written in a period when finance companies had a very active influence on the municipal sector to convert municipalities into shares and other securities. Terra Securities actively used the Vik letter in marketing their products to other municipalities. The Terra products were found to have a content that did not respond to the wrapping. The Terra thing will live with us for a long time. For the future, it is therefore of great importance that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs learn from the criticism and comments made by the Committee in the vote, and not least from the excellent report of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1422	It's been over a year since the Terra case exploded in the media. If at all, this would be such a big case if the investments had not ended in financial loss for the municipalities concerned, do not know. What would have happened if the bets of these municipalities had resulted in a huge gain, it is also not good to say anything about it. However, it is certain that the formal errors made both in the ministry and in municipalities are equally serious in any case. As the rapporteur has explained in detail, the case that led to the Vik letter was in principle. It is therefore difficult to understand that the case was not dealt with at a higher level in the department, and probably it should also have been brought before political management. It is also critical that the follow-up to the Vik letter was not initiated earlier, and that the municipalities concerned were not informed when the ministry reached a different conclusion from the 2002 review. Fortunately, the Ministry's response to the National Audit Office shows that better procedures have now been developed in the Ministry, so that matters to be followed further, hopefully do not disappear in a drawer in the future. The Ministry has a general responsibility to direct the municipalities in understanding the municipal law. However, it has been pointed out – and it is important to emphasise – that the municipalities themselves have a separate responsibility to interpret and comply with the law. Municipalities are also responsible for their own financial arrangements. Since 2000 and 2001, municipalities have had greater freedom and responsibility for their own financial management. However, the law also provides for municipalities to manage the funds so that they receive a satisfactory return without significant financial risk. In this case, therefore, it is not appropriate to blame others. Although the ministry’s handling of the case has been critical, the seventh and last municipalities themselves are responsible for the decisions they make. The consequences of the financial risks taken by the municipalities concerned have, as it appears today, significant financial consequences for the municipalities. It is therefore positive and correct that the department in this case is contributing and has taken action to remedy the situation, without thereby assuming responsibility for the situation that has arisen. The Ministry’s contribution is important in the interests of the inhabitants of the municipalities concerned, so that they do not suffer excessive burdens. Otherwise, let me briefly comment on another matter that this matter has been updated. The report shows some disagreement between the Ministry and the National Audit Office as regards access to documents in the Ministry. Let me stress that it is necessary for the National Audit Office to have access to all relevant information within law and instructions. It is in that the right of access does not include government notes and internal documents relating thereto. Departments need to facilitate the proper access of the National Audit Office to the information they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1448	It's a great cross of thought for me to look back now – just like everyone else probably does: if the Ministry of Local Affairs had done their job in the autumn of 2002, we wouldn't have the Terra scandal. It is relatively clear in this setting, where words such as «highly critical» and «critical» have been used several times by a single committee in relation to the Ministry of Local Affairs' letter of reply to the County of Sogn and Fjordane, the so-called Vik letter. So if the department had done its job and given the correct guidance, guidance or advice to the municipalities, we wouldn't have the Terra scandal. It means, in my opinion, that even though the State is not legally responsible in any way – in the strictest sense of the word, because it is as an overall committee points out, the individual municipality that has to take legal responsibility itself – there is no doubt that the State has at least a significant moral responsibility. I think it is also true at least in some smaller municipalities – which do not have large, heavy legal departments and legally highly trained staff around the councillor – that when you ask the department and get the answer that this is within the law, you take it too well. In this house, it is often said that this is what the Department of Justice has thought about, and then it is assumed that it does so per year. definition is the correct legal assessment. Those of us who have been here for a few years know that that's not the case, because it's the courts that are the only ones that can ultimately refer to the final, legal assessment. So here you've asked and got the answer that it's okay. Then Terra has used this letter to other municipalities, but it is still the same letter that states that, in the opinion of the Ministry of Local Affairs, this is within the law. Again, at least it can be claimed in a court case — and it is likely to happen — that you were in good faith. Then you'll see what the courts find out about whether there's a legal clarification when the department says something, or whether there's just some kind of guidance that still doesn't relieve the municipality of legal responsibility. At least we're in a grey zone that I think would be nice if you could get a little bit more clarity in. If it is the Ministry – as we always call it in public – otherwise it is enterprises and people we talk about – that are responsible, then my question is – and I would like the Council to answer: what has been done by studies in the department of how this matter was dealt with in the autumn of 2002 and what personal consequences has this matter had for the people who have done an unusually bad job here? Now I'm not just talking about deleting work on the legal assessment, which is obviously wrong, so you have erased and bad legal knowledge. But both the people who have made the first statement, and the person who may have approved it a little higher, have done a bad job. A joint committee agrees on this. The Ministry also agrees that the matter should have been discussed at a higher level. In other words, who is responsible in the department for not treating this at a higher level? Is that a guideline, a routine? In this case, who made that guideline, that routine, and what consequences have it had for it? Or is there a special person in a position who made the decision when this appeared in a conversation: Should this matter be higher, or is it of a routine nature so that we can make the decision at our level without interrupting them a little higher? What happened to the person who decided that we're doing this ourselves, we don't have to go any higher in the department? When I stress this, it's because it's a lot of times in civil society, when civil corporations make mistakes towards tax authorities and others, it's so that many others are instantly furious and demand people's departure, demanding their heads on a barrel, etc. Here, however, it is anonymous to the gray and nameless bureaucrats, at least in the public debate. I have a certain understanding of that, but in fact you can't passively sit down and see that someone has committed a lack of service – that's what I call it – that has actually caused many infinitely great suffering. I would also like to mention that for us, this is further evidence that the most sensible way of financing the most necessary services — that is, elderly care services, school services, welfare services, social assistance and others — is through state schemes. It is totally unacceptable that being unwise – using the parliamentary term instead of the more popular one that has some other letters in it – local bureaucrats, councillors and politicians, who have thus wasted money here, should mean that there are no sound elderly care services, school services and perhaps other welfare services for the inhabitants of these municipalities. In reality, the population has had little chance of doing anything about this. For us, it is a dilemma, and it simply underlines in general our proposal that the essential services should be financed by the state, so that it does not affect older people who need services, that they have unwise politicians and unwise local councillors. It shouldn't have been acceptable, but we understand that the rest of this house, all the other parties, think it's okay that it's the weakest places in the Terra municipalities that this is actually going through, through a lack of service. So for the consideration of transparency: Of course – everyone knows – I still have that view that we unfortunately were alone when we dealt with the new law on the Riksrevision, where we wanted to establish in the legal text that where the Riksrevision wanted access to documents, the Riksrevision would get it. It is totally unacceptable for the controller to decide what information is to be made available to the controller. We haven't stressed the matter any more right here, but it's a general principle that we've stood for many, many times, but where we've suffered defeat against the other parties. It would have been interesting if the Council of State, in addition to answering my question about the consequences for those who have committed misconduct, could also answer whether she maintains the refusal of transparency that occurred at an earlier stage in this case, whether there is something that she will stand firm on – in that case we will see how we can pursue that case in another way – or whether she will now admit that the Department should have actually provided the Riksrevision with the documents requested by the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1470	The so-called Terra municipalities are different. It is enough for all of them that they have had a time, and for many of them they have continued to do so. because the arrangements are so clear for the budget and the financial plans. The matter that Stortinget is dealing with today, Document No. 3:11, it's about a simple matter, it's about a difficult interpretation of the law from six years ago. In December 2007, I sent the so-called Vik-saka to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and Police for assessment. The law department reached a different conclusion from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in its reply to the County of Sogn and Fjordane in 2002. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has taken note of their conclusion. This was followed by informing all municipalities and municipalities about the assessment of the law department and how to understand the municipality at this point. On a question that has been asked here today, the first part of the answer is: This interpretation of the law is followed by informing all municipalities and municipalities. Following this, the procedures in the Department are specified in two areas to ensure that matters are dealt with in the best possible way. It has been clarified that the threshold should be very low in order to raise key interpretation issues to a high level of leadership. We have made it clear that we are going to have more active use of an electronic reminder system that announces matters that have not been completed and processed. Let me stress that all the case handlers in the Municipal and Regional Department have received good information on this. Then we will also change the circular for interpretation of the law by, for example. providing electronic links to the correspondence, so that matters can be addressed as well as possible. In addition, we would also like to stress the self-reliance of municipalities and others who use municipal or municipal special laws to interpret and take decisions on their own merits. So to the letter itself. Vik had entered into an agreement to advance future power revenues against a one-off amount that was then placed in securities. It is important to distinguish between how investment is financed on the one hand and how the funds are managed on the other. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs assessed the first issue. Local and regional ministries have not assessed or otherwise taken a position on the risk at the locations of the municipalities. In the letter to the County of Sogn and Fjordane, the Ministry states: ‘By entering into complex financial agreements with a complex risk structure, the municipality may be exposed to additional risks. The Ministry will generally stress that it is important that municipalities act as a professional counterparty with a risk-conscious relationship and that an applicant minimises the exposure to risk. In this case, the Ministry assumes that Vik Municipality does not take risks that break the current law and regulations. Otherwise, the Ministry has not assessed the degree of risk.» Then a question has been asked here concerning the possibility of access to the documents of the National Audit Office. Let me stress here: the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs should stick to the decisions in force in this area. This is how the National Audit Office has been given access to the documents they have requested. To the Riksrevision's comment on what is unfamiliar from the point of view, or rather, what the Stortinge took into account in its treatment when it was right to see, there are three different types of document. One is R-note plus hand notes. But there are also two more areas. The one is internal notes and internal discussions of issues that may later be dealt with by major or government, and the other is business plans. But let me stress: we are going to have as a policy in the ministry that the Riksrevision of course gets transparency according to what the Stortinge is thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1490	It was the post from Carl I. Hagen that made me ask for the word. It made me remember the mirror halls in Tifoli, where you can go in and see yourself. You know it that far, but you don't look exactly like you do in normal mirrors. That was the association I got when I heard Carl I. Hagen, because we remember the Progress Party as a party that has strongly underlined the responsibility we have for ourselves, and that has in part attacked people and groups who have not taken that responsibility. So in this case, Carl I. Hagen uses the first letter of the Ministry of Local Affairs as an excuse for the arrangements made by local politicians. They were in good faith, so they apologize to the municipality. But of course it was unfortunate. And Hagen is probably right that if the interpretation of the law that now stands, came first, we would have released these unfortunate investments and losses. But the fact that things are not on the edge or outside the law doesn't necessarily mean that there are wise dispositions. And it should be quite obvious to local politicians that placing money in products that the few understand is a rather bold operation. It may be bold enough to place in the products you understand when operating on the stock exchange. So this is using Hagen to excuse the municipalities. But then he goes a step further, and then suddenly what they misled the municipal authorities have done has become proof that they are so indestructible that they cannot be responsible for either school or care for the elderly. It has to go to the state, the state that has thus misled the municipality in this case. So here the reasoning is not entirely in line, although it is admirable to the extent that we have seen in the debate both in the previous case and in this case: Carl I. Hagen always finds an anchor fast to get back to the special points that the Progress Party has, whether it is about climate policy or how we are to organise the welfare services in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1499	My reasoning is very, very good, because it is in fact a fact that the under-covering of welfare services now taking place in the Terra municipalities is a consequence of decisions – for which they are likely to be legally responsible – in the local municipal authorities. We have always said that those who may make mistakes must also take responsibility for their mistakes. Therefore, the reasoning remains. When it was the State that made any mistakes in its guidance, the State would have to take the consequences if it were those who had been responsible for the care of the elderly and other services in the municipalities. Then the responsibility would have been placed there. What is now the unfortunate situation – and as Svein Roald Hansen actually admitted – is that the municipalities can in some way be understood morally, because they requested the relevant state authority, the Ministry of Local Affairs, and got a clear signal that this was in order. It does not relieve them of legal responsibility, but yes, it is a moral excuse. In my opinion, it is quite obvious that when small municipalities with a small legal environment, if anything at all, assess whether something is within the law, and they're insecure, because they don't have large legal staff like in Oslo and Bergen and Trondheim, then they ask the department. And if they're told that it's okay, you can't say that we're just going to ignore it, as Svein Roar Hansen said. Yes, I admit that it is an excuse for the municipalities. There are a lot of small municipalities that keep asking the departments what things are, and then they get answers, and then they deal with it. I've been involved in saying that it doesn't necessarily mean that they're legally excused. That's for the court to decide. In reality, I hope that it will come before the court, because it may not be as easy for the ministry in all other contexts to come up with guidelines, procedures and rules towards municipalities as these feel compelled to follow even where they disagree, for example. in the case of interpretations of law within the Planning and Building Act, where some local authorities will do one thing, and then state guidelines say something different. There the state demands that they do exactly as they are told. However, if it turns out later that the state has been wrong, the state will not be liable. Then it's the municipalities that have to take responsibility. I think that's a state double morality. You expect and demand this. If they do not follow the guidelines, they are sometimes threatened with being deprived of discretionary means, such as: if property taxes are not applied. There's a bastard from the state. It turns out in retrospect that what the state said was wrong. Had the state at that time said what was right, even Svein Roald Hansen admits that then these Terra municipalities would not have come out of the accident in which they have suffered. And yes, I think that's an excuse, no matter which politicians it is, whether it was the FrPs or whether they were from the Workers' Party. I think we have a better conscience than the Workers' Party in this way with regard to our local politicians, but it is subordinate in this context. But it can't be that when the government gives guidelines and orders, they're going to use power to follow it up, while when they've been wrong, they're going to roll the whole responsibility over to those who've followed up what the state has actually said. So I'm going to repeat my question to the Council of State, because it was probably in an incubation that she forgot to answer it: what personal and career consequences has the Terra case had for those people who here have the direct responsibility to send the famous, wrong Vik-letter out of the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1514	We're used to almost tabloid headlines and tabloid debates, but to interpreting the letter from the department as if it's OK, as Carl I. Hagen shortened it to now, I think I'm stretching it far beyond the reasonables. The fact that it was initially assessed as not being illegal is one thing, but to extend it to say that these investments are ‘in order’ is to go far beyond what is the reality of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1519	To the question of what personal or career changes have occurred here, the answer is that this is a case that goes back six years in time. Since I entered the department, there have not been any personal or career changes for those who were involved in this matter at the time, but there are individuals who had in the meantime ended up in the department. But, as I said in my post, there are other actions here, both when there is a low threshold for raising principal legal interpretation matters to a high level of the leader, and also measures to ensure that letters in their health are followed by circulars that are sent out. Then it goes without saying that in addition to that, we have done a thorough review of everything called procedure in the ministry, so that everyone is informed about how it is going to be done. Then to the letter. I'm surprised, not just a little bit surprised, that the representative Carl I. Hagen can so intensely interpret a letter that thus spelled a question about the advance of future power revenues being considered a loan. I have quoted from this letter, which shows that the department responded to what the department interprets to be within the law on how investment is financed, but did not assess the risk in the locations that were made. On the contrary, a special emphasis was placed in the letter on the responsibility of municipalities themselves to take risks. This means that the ministry has never given green light to ignore what has been said in the municipality of El Salvador about risk. So to follow-up, or else. Let me also stress, when there are questions about the kind of competence that the municipalities actually have, that I agree with the representative Hagen that there is a difference in the kind of competence that the municipalities have when it comes to managing the financial portfolio they have. For this reason, as part of the follow-up to these cases, the Ministry has sent out a proposal for tightening up the financial regulation, which means that the municipalities should not take greater financial risks than they have the competence to. Or in another way: the financial portfolio of the individual municipality must be managed in accordance with the competence of the individual municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1529	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1616]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1545	When I get involved in this debate now, it's not to put anything aside from what's presented in the vote. That's excellent, but I'm doing it because I think the National Audit Office's initiative and studies are very important and require attention in this room as well. In addition, I am a member of the Energy and Environment Committee and follow these matters closely. It's a matter of course that modern societies depend on a stable and adequate supply of power. Households, health, industrial, primary and important infrastructures such as finance, transport, telecommunications, etc. is critically dependent on the functioning of the power supply. Fortunately, we are in the situation in Norway that this works very well, which has been the basis for our prosperity development. Then, as a background for his report, the Riksrevision has asked two very important and clear questions. The first is: Is the transmission of power in the distribution system safe and reliable in all parts of the country? The second question is, to what extent do state instruments and governance contribute to the safe and reliable transmission of power in the distribution system in all parts of the country? Although such a study has not provided a fasitistic response to all circumstances, some of the results of the Riksrevision study raise legitimate awareness and require follow-up. It is serious when approx. half of the companies involved in the investigation have facilities and networks with technical defects and deficiencies. It is serious when the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness states that the network companies carry out a maximum of varying maintenance. Yes, it is equally said that parts of the network are not properly maintained. It is not acceptable when it is found that the technical standard has been significantly reduced. This may occur when the study shows that the network reinvestment rate in several companies is not high enough to maintain the technical standard. One should expect in 2008 that one could point to an ever-improved technical state. It is also stated in the Riksrevision report that more people believe that the income framework regulation provides little or very little with sufficient incentives for proper operation and improvement of the network. These are the opinions of operators in the network. Then it is positive that in fault and interruption statistics it can be shown that the reliability of the transmission of power itself is not impaired, and that is important. I believe, on the basis of what is said in the report, that there may be reason to ask whether physical and routine supervision is sufficient in place. This should be assessed by those responsible. I have also noticed that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is looking at the challenges pointed out by the National Audit Office in terms of unclear responsibilities and coordination between the NVE and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness. The vital challenge that I know the bodies and departments involved are working on is whether the current financial instruments and supervisory arrangements are good enough to ensure good maintenance, improvement and development of the network. I trust that this will be given the highest priority. The National Auditor's report provides important background music for this work, and I think that music is so high that no one should allow themselves to sleep in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1568	It is nice to hear that the Riksrevision report has been read by more than the members of the Committee. Now it is the committee's position for consideration, and I asked for the floor because I am the case rapporteur for this unanimous vote. What the Riksrevision refers to is that it is a fundamental task for the energy authorities in the country to ensure satisfactory security in the supply of energy. The National Audit Office demonstrates that about half of the network companies which have a concession to build and operate the distribution system have faults or deficiencies, which should be corrected after a technical assessment. And that is a serious criticism – I agree with that. When you're talking about sleeping an hour, obviously there's someone who's done it before, because this is not a new relationship. The Committee focuses on three critical points. One is that the financial instruments that energy authorities have to prioritize maintenance are obviously not sufficient — if nothing else had happened. The second relationship is the supervision of the NVE which is also insufficient. There is a criticism of the NVE in the report, which I think is clear. It will be repeated in the setting. The third is a criticism that is not new, and that goes on that two directorates have difficulty working together. No one has the difficulty of cooperating as directorates and ministries. Here it concerns the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, the DSB, and the Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate, the NVE. They both obviously have their professional chefs, but the cooperation between them is deficient. It is also pointed out in the setting. Things have happened since this report came, because Stortingen dealt with this matter as late as December 2nd, i.e. 14 days ago, and took a unanimous decision asking the Government to deliver a big message on this, where a number of assignments are given. The setting that will be treated by Stortinget, and which is probably adopted, will give you an additional boost to the Storing Message. So it's my hope that the department prioritizes it. Let me say that this is not a party policy, because this is a unanimous attitude, so I think that here the department can safely follow up and make a message without any danger that even in an election year it will be troublesome. So my hope is that the department will give priority to this work, because this concerns the people of the country quite directly. To say it like this, when the light goes, there's not much going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1579	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[Fooding, see page 1616]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1595	This report from the Riksrevision tells of a working method that is new to the Riksrevision, but quite interesting, and as I think there is reason to call it affordable – a parallel revision between different Nordic countries to detonate borders in a Nordic power market. The National Audit Office has carried out a parallel audit between the Norwegian, Danish and Finnish national audits – not Swedish, but at the same time it has had a good cooperation with Sweden, so it is believed to have covered it quite well. The question is whether there is sufficient preparedness to help each other in the event of a major cross-border power breach when it is de facto such that a breach in one country may affect the situation in another country. Nordic cooperation is a long tradition in this country. Everyone celebrates Nordic cooperation on every golden occasion, but it happens, and not so rarely, that when it comes to reality, it is not the cooperation that is going on, as intensely as it is. And let me put it this way, this national audit report is a clear indication that the Ministry of Oil and Energy needs to respond better to the challenges of repair preparedness posed by the Norwegian power system, and we also need to step up cooperation so that other countries face each other. It is both a responsibility for the Norwegian Ministry of Oil and Energy, and it is an excellent task for the Nordic Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1606	I almost have to start as in the previous case. I do not take the floor to get involved in the matter, for it is first well-treated, and secondly also well-lit by the representative Foss now. But let me still complement it a little bit. Firstly, I would like to say that the Riksaudition has taken a very important and affordable initiative in an area that I generally believe is too small to pay attention to, and that in a society like ours that to those degrees is so dependent on power generation and distribution. It's important that this works every second of the year. The parallel audit carried out has highlighted conditions of cooperation that are not good in the Nordic countries. The overall problem then becomes the extent to which cooperation on preparedness for repair between Nordic countries has been facilitated when a fault or breakdown has to occur in the central network. The Nordic region has been and is a precursor region for connecting countries’ networks so that we have a common Nordic power system. This is an enormous strength for our Nordic countries, and not least for Norway, which is so unilaterally dependent on hydropower and thus vulnerable to fluctuations in rainfall and to the power plant magazines. Huge fluctuations in exports and imports of force are the best proof of this. So, as the Riksrevision report and the committee setting show, this connection to a common network allows a major power cut in one Nordic country to have a strong impact on the power system and supply stability of other countries. This is absolutely vital in periods where there has to be under-cover in individual countries’ own production, as is sometimes the case in Norway. Therefore, the quick repair of defects is very essential. Even if you don't want to dramatize, I'm very worried when the Riksrevision can say: ‘The investigation further shows that established preparedness cooperation is largely based on the interest and commitment of individuals. There is a risk that Nordic cooperation on repair preparedness may become too low a priority and too low a target due to a lack of planning and concrete targets for work.» This is very serious, as such a vital system as a well-functioning distribution and preparedness within the electricity grid cannot depend on the interests of individuals! I see that in a report, the NVE recommends that the Ministry of Oil and Energy take the initiative to conclude an overall emergency framework agreement between the Nordic countries, and that, in its comments on the report, the Department looks positive about reaching appropriate agreements. As chairman of the Nordic Council Committee, I have responsibility for, among others: energy issues have already taken the initiative of developing a common Nordic risk and vulnerability analysis, with a view to establishing guidelines for preparedness and exchange of repair resources in the event of failure of the Nordic power system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1630	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1616]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e1638	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-18.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e2535	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 3 December 2008: «The Government asks the Government to propose measures to meet the needs of employees for information on their rights and where they can apply when they feel unwarrantedly monitored by the employer.» The right and left have notified that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e2556	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 3 December 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government to review and consider introducing changes in order to give post-dead life heirs equal to the inheritance of the surviving spouse, as stated in the previous paragraph. the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6 of the Inheritance Act.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e2577	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 3 December 2008: ‘The Government requests an evaluation of the applicable criminal provisions on terrorist activities during the next majority period with a view to determining whether the provisions have worked properly.’ The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e2842	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-16.ana.ud564e3012	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require the word under § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
