ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e28	It is very gratifying and reassuring that the majority of the Health and Care Committee agrees that the aim is to reduce the use of coercion in people with mental illness, developmental retardation and dementia in Norway. Forcing is contrary to fundamental human rights on self-determination and personal freedom. Those who are under compulsion experience it as very offensive. We in SV are therefore pleased that the majority believe that treatment should be as voluntary as possible and that coercion should only be used in very special situations. Norway has more than 10,000 forced admissions to psychiatry in one year. The SINTEF report of June 2007 demonstrates that the use of coercion is increasing in relation to patient groups such as mental retardation, mental illness and dementia, and it shows that Norway scores high on international statistics on coercive use compared to other countries. This concerns us in SV. Several Hearing Officers have pointed to the treatment criterion as a reason why coercion is widely used and that the removal of this criterion could reduce coercive use. We therefore look forward to the work to be done in the working group, which will be put together these days, to look at issues related to this. The working group shall also assess whether the current action plan against coercion should be supplemented by new measures. The report is planned to be completed by June 2009. SV is involved in the broad participation of user representatives in the working group, and we ask that this be taken into account when setting up the working group. This includes organisations such as Mental Health Norway, the National Association of Relatives of Psychiatry and the National Association of We Shall Overcome. According to the State Health Authority and the Council for Mental Health, there are large geographical differences in the use of coercive measures, and these differences are often due to differences in professional culture. Professional culture is difficult to change, but this is very important to focus on. This demonstrates the importance and need to focus more on human rights in healthcare and on increasing knowledge among employees on the regulation and practice of coercion against mentally retarded, mentally ill and demented persons. SV is therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee also sees the need to develop educational material with a focus on human rights for use by health professionals in the care of these groups. Human rights lawyer Gro Hillestad Thune has long pointed out the need for this. In a letter to the Committee of 10 June 2008, she pointed out the importance of non-theoretical and legal teaching. Training should be practical and simple and should take place in cooperation with employees’ organisations, people with experience as patients and relatives. This should be listened to. The good examples from low-prescription treatment services should also be highlighted. Preventive measures such as early help and good access to good professionals are underlined as very important in the consultation note of the National Association of Psychiatric Relatives. Increased interaction between specialist health services and community health services must also be established in order to ensure the transfer of competences on the prevention and practice of coercion and coercive and continuous assistance in order to prevent people from falling outside the treatment system. We are pleased that the Minister of Health will now assess whether mechanisms should be put in place to stimulate interaction models with stronger organisational commitment and better funding arrangements for outpatient teams. There are many who experience it offensive and unworthy to be brought home by uniformed policemen when in a crisis situation. This should be completely unnecessary to expose relatives and patients to today. Therefore, the SV, together with the majority of the Committee, believes that healthcare companies should establish cooperation procedures with the police in order to prevent the unnecessary use of uniform police when assistance is provided in the case of hospitalisation. So to the representative proposal from the Left to draw up an action plan to reduce coercive use in mental health protection. The current action plan for the reduction and quality assurance of the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection serves several of the objectives of the proposed representative. In addition to assessing the need for treatment criteria, the Working Party set up by the Directorate-General for Health will complement the current action plan with further measures to strengthen efforts to reduce and ensure the quality of the use of coercive measures in the psychiatry. We will again point out the need for human rights education to prevent unnecessary use of coercion and look forward to the completion of the working group report.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e51	As has been pointed out in all submissions, everyone has a desire to reduce the use of coercion, and everyone is concerned and worried because the use of coercion is increasing. Then we show that there are big differences, even geographically, on the extent to which coercion is used. It has been stressed earlier in the debate, including: of Inge Wohnung, that the essential and essential part of mental illness is to get help in a timely manner. Many have said that when the threshold for inclusion is too high, the use of coercion is also increasing. But everyone agrees that we should seek to reduce the use of coercion. I think the proposal from the Left-Representatives is very good. That it is good also turns out that the committee has been involved in this, and we have had a hearing on the matter. It is very nice that they promote a proposal for an action plan and another point, linked to it. I'll come back to that a little bit. I think that the government parties, with the Senter Party, which I belong to, have come very far to meet the proposers because they refer to the action plan that is there. We also say that we want this action plan to be supplemented by proposals contained in this Document No. The 8th proposal. So I think we're going to meet very much, and it also shows that there's not much disagreement in the committee that we're going to do this. We can call it an action plan or an action plan, but the starting point is that the Government has started an important work that is being implemented, and we say that this should be complemented by proposals for actions that the representatives of the Left will bring. As regards proposal No: 2 in the setting, I would like to ask the representatives to consider turning it into a transmission proposal. As the representative also pointed out, we see the need to develop educational material focusing on human rights for healthcare professionals in the care of demented, mentally retarded and mentally ill. I would like to challenge the proposers to turn this into a transmission proposal, and I know that the government is going to deal with it in a good way along with the position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e64	The topic of psychiatry we had up in November last year in an interpellation debate. Then put the Left focus on the large number of forced deposits that Norway has, compared to other countries. We have noted what the Minister of Health said that time. She said as follows: ‘Awareness of the use of coercion is essential to the success of establishing a well-functioning service for mentally ill people and others who may be subjected to coercive treatment. Good regulation and good voluntary methods are important. However, it is equally important that employees are aware of how to avoid unnecessary day-to-day coercion." I thought this was very nice said, and I fully support it. What's the point, we have to move from those nice words and move on to action. That's what we're trying to do, we're seeing the search light on action when we're now dealing with this matter in our representative proposal. It is in the day-to-day, practical life that coercion happens. The use of force arises and takes place in the face of skilled, unskilled and old professional culture. The result is that we get a lot of sick people who sit and are afraid to protest, and they get compulsive medicine year after year. So over to our proposal, which has two points. I'll come back to point two. Point one goes on an action plan. Of course, I can agree with anyone who has said that we have enough plans. But what we wanted when we took up the proposal was to force the search light in psychiatry. We know there's a lot of coercion in Norway, and we need to find other solutions. We have had action plans, we have had escalation plans, but there is something that has not worked, when, contrary to everyone's wishes, there is more coercion and no less coercion. What's needed is to try to find other solutions. Then I think we also have to discuss it in this room, because every time this question is raised from this pulpit, it sends out the important signal in every kind of environment. Not least to the professional community, there should be a signal coming from this hall and this pulpit. There are many different types of treatment in psychiatric settings. We know that, and there can be strong opinions and different opinions. What we want is for the professional community to put even more emphasis on an approach to what is called best practice, that is, the best solution: that psychiatry needs to take its perspective on itself and learn from those who get it. Because there are some trade unions around our country that get it better than others. As we've heard others say, there's a big difference in coercion -- far too big a difference, after the Left's opinion. Today there was a marking outside Stortinget, including We Shall Overcome. They tell you about patient experience in very interesting ways. There's strong stories one gets right. This marking had a main slogan, as far as I could see, that went on two things: against coercion, for human rights. That's what we have as a theme here -- against coercion, for human rights. Proposal No. 2 goes on human rights in particular. SVs Kirsti Saxi called Gro Hillestad Thune, who has worked a lot on this, and who has written this book that we know. Getting it into teaching I think is important. I believe that all parties have expressed a positive opinion on proposal No. 2, also the government party. So it would be a shame if a proposal that has multiples in the hall were to be voted down. That is why, in consultation with my co-rapporteur from the Christian People's Party, I would like to ask that proposal No. 2 will be converted into a transmission proposal. I argued that the Council of State would come back quite quickly, so that there would be an arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e86	That's what the president's going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e89	Questions about how to reduce the use of coercion in mental health protection are important. Forces are being used to an excessive extent today, and unfortunately we have failed to reduce the use of coercion against groups such as mentally retarded, drug-dependent, mentally ill and demented to a large extent. We also know that coercion, especially in psychiatry, is strongly linked to social inequalities and homelessness. For example, as many as about 40 pst. of those who are under compulsory mental health protection do not have adequate housing. We can't accept that. I would like to stress that I fully support the intentions of the proposers to reduce the use of coercion in mental health protection. All the speakers I have heard so far in the debate say the same thing. As much voluntary treatment as possible has been a clear objective of the escalation plan from the very beginning, and throughout the period, it has been working to reduce the use of coercive substances, both with and without accommodation, and to reduce the use of coercive substances. As you know, the legislation has now been revised, and we are making stronger demands for the registration of coercion than has been the case in the past. In 2006, on behalf of the Government, I presented a separate action plan against coercion as part of this work. This plan has four main objectives. First of all, we need to increase the volunteering of treatment. I also believe, as many people have been concerned about, that it is very important that you have measures that allow you to get help very quickly. Secondly, the use of coercive measures must be quality assured. Thirdly, we need increased knowledge, and fourthly, better evidence of forced use. We want even more user involvement. We want more mastering our own lives, and we want more decentralised services. These are conditions that in themselves build up under increased volunteering and reduced forced use, I believe. Furthermore, we will establish a national network for knowledge development and research on the use of coercive mental health protection, and we are in the process of a project on user-oriented alternatives to coercion, involving six emergency departments. We also have several measures to improve documentation and to ensure the quality of the use of coercive measures. I also want to add, as other speakers have done, that human vision, ethics and values are the themes of basic, continuing and continuing training of health professionals, and that may have to be even more of a focus in the future. Ethical issues have received increased attention in health services, including: through the clinical-ethical committees now established in almost all health establishments in the country. These committees shall contribute to increasing the competence of staff in clinical ethics and shall provide guidance on ethical issues. The use of coercion is a central theme in the work of these committees. As notified in St. Prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, we will appoint a working group in these days to assess issues related to enforcement issues. In this regard, I take with me the signals that have been given in this debate. It is quite obvious that users will have a very central place, as several speakers have been in it. This group shall include, inter alia: assess whether new measures in the plan may be appropriate, including whether it is appropriate to consider the conditions for treatment with medicinal products without their own consent. The mandate of the working group will also include an assessment of both legal, clinical and ethical issues. The current debate on coercion in psychiatry shows that professionals, relatives and patients may have different but nuanced views on these issues. Maritime representatives of all these groups will therefore be invited into this work. We need more knowledge, research and investigation about the use of coercion and questions about this. I am pleased that this working group is now starting up in the very near future. The aim must be to focus attention on how to jointly manage to provide decent and good mental health care to people in a very difficult life situation. Finally, I have noticed the Committee's comment and what has been said from the Chair today, in terms of teaching material. I also see clearly the need for such material with a focus on human rights, material for health professionals in the care of the demented, mentally ill and mentally retarded. It will be a natural theme to follow up, both for this working group and for the Health Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e112	It's gonna be a line change - Gunvald Ludvigsen. - No, it depends on the size of the parties. First Vigdis Giltun, then Laila Bavøy, and then Gunvald Ludvigsen. That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e117	Yeah, that's it. I want to go back to Kirsti Saxi's posts, where she came up with this with psychiatric ambulance service or the retrieval of serious mental illness. Still, it is the police who come to the patient to a large extent first. It was mentioned here that a cooperation agreement with health care establishments should be established. Now, two years have passed since we had a debate on this last time, and not so much is happening in the matter. I know something's going on, but it's going too slow. Still, there are too many serious sick people who are picked up by the police, or who are picked up in a transport that is not suitable for transporting sick people. What will the Council of State do to ensure that those who need to be picked up receive a decent transport, that they are picked up by qualified staff and not by the police? I mean it's going too slowly, and I want to know what the council will do to get ahead of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e128	I fully agree with Giltun's representative that one should do this in the most dignified and proper way possible. It also means that I fully agree - which I believe is also the representative of Giltun and others here in the Chamber - that a person should use uniform as much as possible, for example. where the police have to assist the health care system in picking up people in need of treatment. For it is the responsibility of healthcare to provide the necessary assistance, and then there are some situations where the police should come in. That is why in 2006 the Health Directorate and the Police Directorate created a circular that clarifies responsibility in relation to the responsibilities of the healthcare system, and what is the responsibility of the police. What we have clearly clarified there is precisely that the use of uniform should try to limit as much as possible. The same applies to the use of a police car. I think everyone can easily imagine what it means when you're very sick, as well as being picked up by the police. So this is working very actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e133	During the treatment here in the Storting of Ot.prp. No 65 for 2005-2006, I suggested that the treatment criteria be reviewed and assessed whether they should be changed. To my great joy, all the parties joined. Then we have twice after this, both in 2006 and 2007, called for this work. Now we know that in these days a working group will be set up to start working on this only in August this year. My question is, how is it possible to use more than two years to initiate a work related to a unanimous decision on growth that is so important to so many - that is what is going on in the psychiatry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e140	I fully agree with Mr Davøy that this is a very important issue. It's not like we've been quiet for two years. It's been working on this. But it's probably also that this is a matter that there might be different opinions about. That is why I believe it would be natural for the working group that is now very soon to be set up to discuss it even more. I believe that there are already things going on here, but I also think, when this working group is right around the corner, that it should also think something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e148	I believe that one of the most important things about this debate is that we recognise that 10,000 forced entry into psychiatry in one year is a lot. So if you divide 10,000 by the number of days per year, you're going to have 28 entries per year. 24 hours. Then there will be more than one entry per. hours on average. And we also note, on the basis of these reports referred to in the debate, that there are very wide differences in the use of force. We see that in some environments, e.g. in Sogn and Fjordane, in Health Förde, there is half as much forced labor as in Health Bergen, and even greater difference is when one comes to Health Stavanger. Not so the president that it's the smallest party that comes to last, and so it might also be within the professional community. Does the government believe that the small trade unions will be overrun by the big ones here?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e155	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Ludvigsen, that there are too many compulsions. I believe that the statistics that we have - seas about the professional environment are a little bit controversial about how much it is - show that there is no doubt too much. That is why this debate is also very important. I think at least there are three things, in addition to what has been said here, that you should focus on. One is knowledge and competence. I believe that both small and large trade unions have something positive to contribute. That's the one. The second is that we have to make sure that even more people get help earlier. For some, you may not be able to avoid the use of coercion. But it's also true that if you had got help a little bit earlier, you might also have avoided coercion, or at least used it less. The third important point is that I'm very concerned about the social inequalities you see in forced entry, for example. the example of about 40 pst. by those who are being compulsorily treated, do not have a suitable dwelling. I think that's one of the things we need to focus on in the future. I think it might also show that there is a need to do more before one comes to forced treatment - I am absolutely sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e162	The Rune Schjellelaa was in on this with that the threshold for being admitted may be too high, and it increases the use of coercion. Now it's like a lot of daily places have been laid down in the last few years, and it's actually going on. In the past, I have promoted an interpellation involving older mentally ill people who are not allowed to use the health services in the psychiatric sector in the same way as others. During the debate, there was no particular concern among the other parties for the elderly. But in today's Medisin of June 5, we can read -- over two whole pages, in fact -- that the elderly have a strong under-use of psychiatry services. This concerns DPS, and not least daily treatment, and it increases with age. It says here that these elderly people are now expected to be in a nursing home or in so - called nursing homes around the country where they go about their baptism. We know that many people are also misplaced and are being forced into hospital homes. Will the Council of State address this problem and ensure that older people are not exposed to age discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e173	Yes, we should not have age discrimination in Norway. And I agree with Giltun's representative that there is an unmet need for help in the field of mental health protection for older people. So it's also true that there's been a lot of closures in 24 hours. But there has been a desired development, I have understood, from very many--if not all-- parties in this hall. And it's been a desired development to get to, for example. more district psychiatric centres, so that people can get more help in their community. Over the course of ten years, we've achieved 75 of these with cross-political cooperation, and it's unique. It's clear to some people that you also have 24 hours, that's quite obvious. But what's absolutely certain is that either you're young or you're older, either you're female or you're male or you're rich or you're poor, you're all going to have equivalent treatment. It's important to focus on coercion -- and there we're not in goal, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e182	Back to my first question, a little extended: what I mean to remember is that it was in the state budget for this year that it first said that it was going to put down such a group, that is. It said that two groups were to be set up. First, the group that comes now in August would be put down, and then you would have a new group after that. My first question is whether it is that the group that is set up in August, and where users are present, will have a real opportunity to consider removing treatment criteria, i.e. assessing today's legislation as it works. And my second question is, when you first have to work in this group, and then you have to put down a new group, how much time will it take to decide on changes in the law? It worries me, because it's very urgent to do something in this area - also with the law, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e189	Firstly, the Health Directorate presented a plan in 2006. That's why I say that some of this has already started. But I can assure the representative Davøy that in the work that is now to be done - and that one does not intend to spend more time on it - it is of course that users and the question of treatment criteria will be a central issue. I believe that one in this case who in very many other cases will listen to them this applies. We're not always as good at that. They have a great deal of competence, so it must be clear that removing treatment criteria may have to be an important topic of debate in the future. It's not about doing for me to have the most possible work groups. But the person who is now thinking of a reduction is going to work approx. one year, a little depending on what they think they need. But then we have to evaluate this on an ongoing basis. And if we see that there's a need to change laws or other along the way, we have to be technically also open to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e196	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e201	At the Jären District Psychiatric Centers, run by the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, you've managed to halve the coercive practice. The use of belts has almost ceased, and forced medication has fallen. This is a lowthreshold offer for the very sickest patients. And when you do this, there should be possible more places in the country. User-controlled spaces mean that those who are ill can choose to enter themselves when they know they need to. The system is based on trust between handlers and users. The interesting thing is that this was initially not started because it was intended to reduce coercion, but for capacity reasons. It was feared that it would lead to over-exploitation and increase costs, but all fear has been put to shame. This is a way of meeting the individual user who does not feel that they need to be questioned and through a number of instances before they can be treated. There is a decentralised offer where users and treatment providers know each other. That's what we need elsewhere as well. So the left doesn't have any faith that this can be done in any case, but by focusing on what has worked on, among other things. The Iron District Psychiatric Centers can also teach something to others. There are more examples around the country. What makes us so afraid of people who don't behave 'normal'? It's quick that someone is seen as the 'others' in our society, precisely because we have a very homogeneous society. But by looking at someone like 'the others', we're increasing the risk of an assault. Human rights apply to everyone, and I perceive that there is a great deal of consensus here in the Chamber about this with the use of coercion in mental health protection. That is why I and Left hope that changes to the better in this area around the whole country can be made as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e214	I want to go back to the proposal of the Progress Party on a right law. There was no pay in there for a little while. He believed that a law of rights would not at all have anything to do with it, and that it would not guarantee anything at all. During the treatment of Innst. O. No 79 for 1995-1996, the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the SV and the Christian People's Party, promoted a proposal for a decision which read: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a comprehensive communication on detailed guidelines for the practice of law on rights and limitation and control of the use of force and power. to individuals with mental retardation, and for the main content of its regulations, before the law enters into force.’;» So here it was about a law of rights. The center part went a lot further. They were completely in line with the Advance Party. They clearly state that they ‘consider that a better person would have been able to prevent unnecessary and unlawful use of power and coercion against mentally impaired persons and other similar groups by proposing a right law for these groups’. A law of rights, in the opinion of the Centre Party, was to ‘attribute to a social and human view in which all are equally valuable, with respect being accorded to people with deviant behaviour’. They conclude that this “should be a right of care and not a law for the use of coercion and power”. So it's not just the Progress Party that's been involved. However, the Progress Party also commented on ‘proposals for the right law for mentally retarded and other groups that need special attention from society in order to obtain the best possible quality of life based on their own assumptions and premises’. The reason why the Progress Party rejected the proposal for the use of power and coercion against persons with a mental retardation was that our representative believed that based on the process of law and the way in which the law was drafted, it was not possible to be sure that the legislative proposal exercised the individual's rights to a large extent, and whether the law in its entirety was in line with international human rights conventions. Now, twelve years later, only the Progress Party wants a law of rights for these groups. It seems like it's quite foreign to the other parties. We know that these groups have not been well cared for. We know that the use of force and coercion has increased. Then you might have to consider again whether you should go back to the starting point when this case was dealt with. It is possible to do so today by supporting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e232	I think it's very interesting what Giltun's representative brings up here. Twelve years ago, people were sitting in this room discussing what we are discussing today. Then there were many more parties who supported such a proposal, giving a right law to abolish the use of coercion and power against mentally ill people. What we have experienced in the last 12 years is an increasing use of coercion and power over time in Norway. So the problem and the extent are increasing. The same parties that supported such a law then go against such a law today, despite the increasing problem. How both the Government and the others are going to eliminate the use of coercion and power without coming a law of rights that preserves those who have mental disorders is a mystery. I am unfortunately afraid that this is not the last time the Storting debates the use of coercion and power against those who have mental disorders. When only pious desires are promoted, and not rights for those who have a health problem, I think we will have this debate many times in the future. Debates and insights into the real problems are, as the Council of State said, important. But it's actually more important to act on the knowledge experience you have. Today's debate is not significantly different from previous debates - five years ago, ten years ago or 15 years ago. Ergo: We have not been able to solve the problems of mental health protection using power and coercion against mentally ill people. I don't think we're going to make it until they do, actually have rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e241	In fact, I think the debate today is quite good. I think it is important that we have this debate. We should perhaps have such a debate at least once a year if developments continue to be negative, but we as politicians must be concerned about turning around. I'm very concerned about the evolution we have. In recent times, many of us in the Committee have been in contact with mentally ill, with patient organisations, with related organisations, with the Mental Health Council, and we are getting clear signals from everyone that something needs to be done now. As of today, we should reverse the trend. It's too much coercion. The Christian People's Party supports the Left's proposal, and we agree on both proposal 2, which will now be forwarded to the Government, and proposal 3. The background is that we want an active action plan for one single purpose: to reduce coercive use immediately - neither more nor less. We want full pressure on it because it's urgent. We have a lot of patient knowledge about how coercion works. I am more and more convinced - to respond to the challenge of the representative of the Progress Party - that our legislation should be changed in terms of forced use. But then there has to be a work in advance, as I see it. That is why I proposed a review of the treatment criteria two years ago. It is very sad that it has taken two years to get started, even though I understand from the Council that there has been a lot of work in advance. Maybe you've been unsure how to do that. It is also below what the Council of State says - if I interpret it correctly - that there is a great deal of disagreement in the field of science, that you might be afraid to change the law here. But as politicians - and I think everyone here in the Chamber is expressing this - we want changes in the area of forced use, and then we have to do it the way of law, when we have not done so through the action plan we have today. The conclusion is that we have to get ahead of this work, and we have to look at a change of laws. The last state council said in its statement -- if I heard correctly -- that we cannot accept that the mentally ill do not have housing. That was an example. We can't really accept mental illness, long-term illness, for example. not to be accommodated. Then I allow myself to come with a deep heart attack that is not exactly coercive, but it has to do with mental illness. The institution Solbu is liquidated in these days. Today I have been in contact, and there are several clients who have to go from the second line service in psychiatry and straight out into the private housing market to get a home. They don't have anywhere to be. I think it's awful to hear about and watch.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e255	I agree with Mr Fredriksen on one point, namely that the Stortinget has often debated this issue. And I'm pretty sure the Storting will do that in the future too. If the proposal of the Progress Party is intended - one can interpret the wording so - that one believes that a right law will abolish coercion, I think it is naïve at best. And on this point, the wording of the proposal is also somewhat contradictory, because on the one hand it is said that you will order a right law that involves the abolition of the use of force and power, while in the last part you say ‘that ensures that such instruments are only used as’, etc. it does not, however, abolish it. There is a not insignificant tension between the two parts of the proposal. I also have to make it clear that it is a misunderstanding if one assumes here that the patient groups that this is about do not have rights today, and that therefore you have to make a law that defines rights. Of course, the Patient Rights Act is fully applicable, of course the human rights provisions set out in the Norwegian Constitution are also fully applicable. The main reason why I cannot vote in favour of the proposal is that I think it is fundamentally unclear what the proposal is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e266	Of course, you can use your right not to understand a perfectly clear and concise proposal. We know today that human rights are being violated. We know today that patients' rights are being violated. And we know that a law of rights will ensure that those who have mental health problems are far more secure than they are today. Now there have been different governments since the early 1990s where one government after another has failed. Then it makes no sense to use the type of rhetoric that you have failed to succeed, nor should others succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e275	I am not going to try to interpret the proposal of the Progress Party on a right law, but it occurred to me that at the hearing there were some user organisations that called for the abolition of specific legislation and the use of patient rights law as a foundation for everyone - even if it applies to everyone. If I understood correctly, you would take away the special legislation in psychiatry and summarize what you needed from law, from the patient rights law. It is possible that this is what the Progress Party wants. I don't know. But my point of not being able to agree to the proposals of the Progress Party right now is that I think this requires an investigation. In this sense, I am very pleased with the selection that is now going to start, with user involvement. As confirmed by the Council of State today, they will also have the opportunity to assess and consider current legislation in terms of both treatment criteria and coercive use. I think that's positive. I choose to take this debate we have had, as a positive signal from actually all parties that we now want to go together to do something. But in my opinion, we have to figure it out, if it's going to be serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e282	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e285	The representative, Fredriksen, said that today's rights laws are being broken, so he wants a new right law - in addition to those that are being broken. But then, at least one must be able to give instructions as to what such a law would look like, as the existing rights laws do not succeed in regulating the behaviour in this area. And I have to say that if I had been in the place of the Council of State, I would have been fundamentally in doubt about what the order is really going on, when the Storting asks the Government to start working with a law of rights that involves the abolition of the use of force and power, etc., and then ends up finally saying that it should nevertheless be opening up to the use of force and power. I wouldn't want to put the Council of State in such a embarrassment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e292	Vigdis Giltun has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e295	I just want to say that I think Laila Bavøy's approach to perhaps considering a change in the law and perhaps also looking at a law of rights was very positive. That's what we included in the comments. We believe that the action plan should also assess this. With regard to Inge Wohnning's concern about the wording, I must say I am somewhat surprised that no other wording could be proposed in the committee. You sit in one committee after another, and you have the full opportunity to agree on good proposals. If that was exactly what it was all about, there were plenty of opportunities to make changes there, and I'm sure the Progress Party would have agreed to it. It might have been worded in a different way. Maybe we'll ask other parties to help us with that for the next time, so we can agree on a good proposal for the benefit of these patients that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e302	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3945]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e318	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e327	In the social security settlement of the year, the Government proposes that the basic amount of the population's pension be increased by NOK 3444, so that the new basic amount will be NOK 70 256 from 1 May this year. It is equivalent to increasing the average basic amount by 5.5 pst. from 2007 to 2008. In addition, it is proposed that the minimum pension for single minimum pensioners should be increased by NOK 16 476 - the increase is equivalent to twice the basic amount of social security - and that this should be done by means of an escalating plan of three social security settlements. The increase in the minimum pension for single minimum pensioners is financed by the use of the retirement pension linked to old-age, invalidity and survivors' pensions from the last year's social security scheme. In addition, proposals are also made to increase the supplementary pension for young people from 3.30 to 3.50 pension points. The initial requirement of organisations to the State was that the supplementary pension should be increased from 3,30 to 4,0 pension points. The government’s proposals on social security for 2008 are the result of discussions between the Government and the organisations, which reached an agreement on 28 May. With this, I am promoting the Committee's recommendation, which is supported by everyone except the Advance Party. The party of progress is not particularly impressed with the social security settlement of the year. The government is here trying to insinuate the country's pensioners that the year's settlement is a historic settlement - yes, almost the best settlement ever. In reality, this year's settlement is only a solid laurel settlement, at our discretion. The reduction from last year's social security balance to this year is 0,65 pst. Instead of increasing G further, you take this money and use it to distribute only to lone minimum pensioners. The government raps parts of the pension from a clear majority of the country's pensioners, then giving it to only one group. In 2003, the Stortinget adopted the guidelines on social security, including: states that the purpose of the Government is to provide pensioners with a retirement pension with income development at least in line with developments in working life. In the Question Time on 21 May, on questions from the Advancement Party, State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen says: ‘The Government intends to implement the social security scheme fully in line with the guidelines adopted by the Stortinget. Those guidelines are very clear, in the sense that you should both see if there is any lag from last year - and that is this year, and it has to be paid after - and then you should also compensate for expected wage developments this year." Furthermore, the Council of State states, in the same question time: ‘During the last growing-up period, as Vice-Chair of the Social Committee, I worked closely with, among others: The party of progress and then the committee leader John Alvheim, and we were in a very active position to make the guidelines that we are now implementing the social security schemes. They are very precise, clear and clear that we should not underregulate G in relation to wage developments, and we are following those guidelines now." With respect to reporting, there was no forgiveness and up-regulation of G in relation to the aftermath. It's in. I wonder what has happened from May 21st to May 28th, which means that the government has completely turned its heels around. What makes it all of a sudden right to take this from the majority of pensioners, instead of giving it, and follow the guidelines? The Progress Party believes that this is a clear violation of the adopted guidelines of the Storting. In addition, we record that when it comes to increasing the minimum pension to 2 G, the Progress Party is of course happy to increase the minimum pension. The Progress Party has fought for several years and has proposed that the minimum pension should be increased to 2 G. We also record that on 14 June last year, the Council of State stated when we proposed to increase the minimum pension to 2 G, that it was the Christmas event proposal. The following year is the acceptable policy, sensible policy. But he continues to discriminate against minimum pensioners. The difference between a minimum pensioner who is married to a low-age pensioner and two minimum pensioners who are married will now increase. The difference between two minimum pensioners who are married, versus an old-age pensioner who is married to a minimum pensioner with a low age pension, will increase by NOK 10,000 more after 1 May this year. They'll actually come out worse than if they were two minimum pensioners. That's the government that actually says it's going to pay off to work. The Progress Party would therefore want to increase the minimum pension of all minimum pensioners up to 2 G. We also propose to reduce the curtailment of married and cohabiting pensioners in the social security bill of the year. We are also proposing to increase the supplementary pension for young people from 3.30 to 4.30 pension points, which was the original requirement of organisations last year. With that, I take up the proposals of the Advance Party. I see the time running out, so there will probably be a need to take a new post.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e359	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e362	I think it was unusually strongly shot from previous speakers, even to the Progress Party to be, in terms of social security settlement, because today Stortinget decides the best social security settlement of the time. It is possible that a strong shot is needed to make a camouflage. The rapporteur himself stated that the average basic amount was increased by 5.5 p.m., that a new basic amount of 70 256 kroner and that it contributes to a significant real income increase for pensioners. The minimum lump sum pension is increased by NOK 16500. That's an increase of 13.75 pst. And as the rapporteur also pointed out, the minimum pensions should be increased to twice the basic amount from 1 May 2010. It's a historic boost for lone minimum pensioners, and married couples, both of whom are minimum pensioners, also benefit fully from the escalation of the special supplement. We also escalate the supplementary pension for young people who are disabled, with an increase of 14 112 kroner. It's a historic boost for them, too. It is many young people who are struggling with poor finances. There are people who have not been given the opportunity to secure decent income through work, and therefore it is also important for this group to have a social security from which it is possible to live. With a guaranteed supplementary pension, young people are now getting their pension increased from today's level of 159 420 kroner to 173 532 kroner. At the same time, I would like to remind you that we have just passed a law on discrimination and accessibility, and that we are implementing changes in labour market measures, because many young people today lack alternatives to early retirement. We know that a lot of people like to learn and work with their peers, but in practice many of these young people are being excluded because of man-made barriers. Young disability pension is the second best solution for some, and they should have a real alternative to retirement. Young disability pension is absolutely necessary for others. They're going to have a decent pension. The exceptional increase in the minimum pension in 2008 is thus financed by using the lag of last year’s social security balance. Instead of using it for a further increase in the basic amount, the Government and the pensioners' organisations agreed to grant a historical income promise to single minimum pensioners. It's social redistribution at its best. Those that have the least of them already get the most. Pensioners’ organisations deserve their share of the credit because the social security settlement of the year has been given such a clear low income profile. The year’s raising of minimum pensioners is in agreement with pensioners’ and disability organisations. There is no «durable». This is an agreement with the ones involved. Soria Moria's commitment to a more active policy of distribution is being followed up, including in this area. But it's important to note that it's not just about minimum pensioners. All pensioners get a good deal this year, with a growth of 5.5 pst. on average from 2007 to 2008, resulting in a good real income growth. Some, including the Advance Party, have tried to produce this differently. The word was used as a «durable», but I repeat: this is not a trick. The organisations themselves have agreed to this, and representatives from the pensioners' own organisations were even out when the agreement was in the box, and said that this is 17 May. So it was the lag from last year: what would it mean if you had evenly distributed this by using it for an increase in the basic amount? That would have meant NOK 678 a year. But by redeploying it to the minimum pensioners, it got more out of this money. Throughout the period, from the red-green government, the growth of pensions has been nearly 16 pst. In addition, both the further escalation of 2G in the next two years and the sharp increase in the pensions of young people at the time of the year’s social security settlement are to be covered by the State budget and not by the funds resulting from social security schemes. The total contribution of the State in 2011 would thus amount to 656 million. kr. Good social security is the result of a government that prioritises good pensions rather than tax relief and sees the whole policy. And it was just the whole thing that made us also manage to figure out a plan for the minimum pensions up to 2 G. The solid increase in income for minimum pensioners and young people is also an important contribution to combating poverty in Norway and is therefore part of the overall picture. So I just want to make it clear that the Progress Party in its comments has been guilty of a slight misunderstanding when they say that there are only lonely minimum pensioners who get a lift. It's also going to be a raise for the minimum pension units. And maybe we can come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e386	It appears from the Opinion that the Right supports the negotiated social security system and is in agreement with the majority and recommends its adoption. On the right hand side, there is something in it in principle in view of the division of labour between big business and government. When the Storting negotiates a social security settlement and agrees with the parties, we think it is neat that it is also adopted in Stortinget. This does not mean that there are some things about this social security scheme that we should have seen differently. I'm going to spend some time explaining some of those elements. Now there is a significant difference in the reality of the two speakers we have heard so far, where the case rapporteur believes that this is a «durable settlement» and where the representative of Christoffersen believes that it is «the best of the times» and a complete «historical» settlement. I think both are going to be wrong. So let me do the first one, let me do the problem. It gets a little too light, I think, that the Progress Party is laying down on that line, because if we look at who is trying to trick whom, I have studied the proposals of the Progress Party, and it is clear from the case that the Progress Party's supplementary proposal - what they propose in addition to what has been agreed on - sums up to NOK 4-5 billion, in addition to the additional costs involved in this settlement. Then I was a little curious about whether the Progress Party in its alternative revised national budget actually proposed this money. So they didn't. I have not been able to find that there is a single crown set aside by the Progress Party in their alternative revised national budget. In the proposal for an alternative state budget in December, the Progress Party had set aside NOK 2 billion, but it is the full-year effect and thus covers a fraction of what they are proposing. So I think it's probably part of -- and the country's pensioners should come along -- that it's a concept that somebody's been using lately, that it's easy to be flustered with TV billions when you're sitting in debates on TV. But obviously it's also a little too easy to be fluent with fantasy billions when you take part in debates here in Stortinget. In addition, there must be a manifest error in the proposal of the Progress Party in the vote, on pages 7 and 8. I would like to draw the attention of the representatives to the position, page 8, at the bottom of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which reads: ‘Special supplementation, probability of estimation, is increased by: [[...]] So it's almost NOK 2 billion too small, because in the line below it says that the special supplement is going to be increased "from NOK 4 620,000,000 to NOK 6 754,000,000", and then you won't be able to suggest NOK 283,000,000. It's almost 2 billion too little just there. So to the claim that this is a «historical» settlement. Well, it's possible that the representative Christoffersen attended a little bit poorly in the Workers' Party's unit school when you were in the theme of percentageing. If you look at the table provided by the department, it appears on page 2 of the setting, you can easily expect that the same minimum pensioners received an increase of 17.3 pst from 1 May 1998 and that married couples received an increase of 19.2 pst from the same time. So it's a higher percentage than what you're now claiming. I just mentioned this to put it a little bit into place. It might be a little bit tempting, but also a little bit too easily, to take your mouth a little bit too full. My main concern, or Right, in this case and in the case of the negotiated settlement, is - as the Ministry's answer to the questions of the Progress Party shows - that the number of minimum pensioners increases significantly with this settlement, a total of 44 000 in 2008, and a total of almost 60000 over the next two years. That means you're weakening your work incentive. One would also, if this development were to continue in recent years, undermine the legitimacy of the people's fear, because those with low supplementary pensions feel that they are actually being set free, and that instead they become minimum pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e408	SV is incredibly happy with this year's social security settlement, and we want to congratulate the pensioners' organisations and the organisations of the disabled. They have gone ahead, and they have shown a way in the distribution policy. Thanks to their willingness to redeploy and the Government's willingness to add fresh money to the pot, we have got a boost for them with the lowest pensions that we haven't seen the husband do in very many years. The annual impact of the Government’s contribution is more than 650 million, in terms of benefits in 2010. kr. In addition, there are special tax rules relating to the minimum pensioners, which make it a pretty big proceeds on that side as well. So this is a real boost. That promise has gone to those who have the least. Young disabled and minimum pensioners are winners in this year's social security settlement, and it was so incredibly important, because it was those who needed the money the most. Wages and incomes for the majority have increased a lot in recent years, and pensioners have increased by a percentage. But once again, percentages of small amounts are a small number of dollars, and percentages of large amounts are many dollars. In this way, the very lowest pensions now need a crownlift, and they've got it. An additional pension for young people has remained unchanged for 17 years without raising pension funds. They are now, and that means that 45,000 young people get their pension increased by 14 112 kroner, and that's SV, and I'm very happy. The minimum pension is increased and must be escalated up to 2 G - very important - and it is very important that this does not apply only to the single person, to the spouses who have the minimum pension, and also to some minimum pensioners who have the spouse with the supplementary pension. They can also get a higher pension, because couples together are guaranteed twice the normal rate. The rise of 2 G is very important, and there the Government has promised additional appropriations to implement it. I believe that this is a milestone for the pensioners' organizations, and that it is a milestone for SV. But there's reason for the pensioners to notice that, based on the setting at least, it's not quite clear whether the Right and Christian People's Party supports this obliging escalation to 2 G, because they're not included in the comments in the position that obliges them forward, saying that we're in favour of this. Raising the lowest benefits in popular terms is one of the most important measures that must be taken in the fight against poverty. SSB studies and statistics show, inter alia: that the minimum pensioners living alone are the most economically at risk. Through life, young disabled people have less opportunities than others to obtain the necessary goods, such as housing and normal consumption. So this is an important act that reduces poverty. With this settlement, we're raising two of the groups that seas have the least opportunity to improve their living conditions with their own income. Now, when the overhang for the other benefits in the population's security - not for old age, disability and survivors' pensions, which we have now given to the minimum pensioners - is to be distributed, it is important that the government follows the clear leads in the protocol to increase the minimum benefits, so that 2 G becomes a floor in the new population's security. I perceive that part of the criticism of the proposal, especially when it comes from the Progress Party, is quite hollow. The representative Martin Engeset has been involved. Part of the criticism is that many become minimum pensioners. Yes, at least it's very strange that the criticism comes from the party that has programmed that everyone should be the minimum pensioner, and that will keep the old pension system that just makes many the minimum pensioners sail if they've paid in to the social security. So is today. There are many who have been paying in to popular security for many years, and who end up as minimum pensioners without this promise today. That's the system, and that's why the majority of people have, among other things. entered in order to change the pension scheme, so that it will be earned from the first penny. It's one of the most important steps in the new pension system, so that we don't have to do it that way. It seems that the Progress Party thinks it's a good way to have it. I also think it's important for the pensioners to notice that the day that the pensioners can really get heads, the Advance Party does not vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e429	The major feature of the year’s social security settlement is to use the lag from last year’s settlement to adjust the special supplement, rather than increase the basic amount accordingly, as is well taken into account by the Storting Guidelines. In addition, the Government has made a clear commitment to further stepping up the special supplement in 2010, making the minimum pension of 2 G, which has been required by the pensioners’ organisations for a longer time. As the Government itself clearly writes, this is an increase which primarily benefits the minimum pensioners outside the public sector. In any case, those who have earned a full public service pension will coordinate the increase in the special supplement and receive a general increase in the pension as a result of the increase in the basic amount of 5.5 percentage points. Higher payments from the population’s pension - in excess of 5.5 percentage points - are matched for this group by increased coordination deductions, and therefore there will also be less expenditure on the State Pension Fund and the other public sector occupational pension schemes. However, this is a necessary consequence of the coordination legislation which must almost be so, given the gross principle and the other good public occupational pension schemes. I also agree with the Government that, after all, there must be a smaller problem that the increase in the special supplement alone leads to more minimum pensioners because the special supplement exceeds less supplementary pensions. In any case, those pensioners with the lowest income are raised by more than the general increase in the basic amount and by more than the wage and price rise. For those in this room who were also present in 1997, it is interesting to note the difference in the rhetoric from the Workers' Party from then to now on about the same type of proposal. At that time the special supplement was also increased, but then by another government, the central government. At that time, the Workers' Party considered that an increase in the special supplement was ‘a little targeted’. Today, when there is a government of its own that does, is promised ‘historic’. On the part of the Christian People's Party, the conclusion should be the same, regardless of who is in the government: we support the proposal. So probably some strategists in government offices found out that it was a scoop to add part two of the increase in the special supplement in 2010. It's, for those who didn't have to be aware of it, after the next big shot. It's a significant probability, not to take too seriously, that it's not today's tripartite government that would have to be responsible for fulfilling the promises. Again, to answer for the Christian People's Party, especially since the representative Andersen asked it: Either the Christian People's Party is in opposition or in position, of course, we should take responsibility for implementing agreements concluded by the State and adopted by the Stortinget. It applies in 2008 and will apply in 2010. Questions can be asked whether the agreement reached is actually in line with the guidelines for the regulation of the basic amount adopted by the Stortinget. The meaning of those guidelines was probably just to ensure that the basic amount over time should not be underregulated in relation to the general wage trend in society. That's what's happening, when the lag from last year is not included, but it becomes clear that this is not an approach to saving money on the state budget. There is a redistribution of proceeds within the social security scheme, not between the social security scheme and other purposes. It happens with the membership of the organisations that have negotiated with the state. We believe that the intentions of the guidelines are fully respected, and that is why we can agree to this year's social security settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e448	The social security settlement of the year is done with the right grips. We are fighting poverty with a distribution profile that lies in the settlement. The government and the other social security partners should be grateful that they have given us this opportunity to give a handshake to the many who are struggling the most to get the crowns to stretch into their everyday lives. Pensioners’ organisations have contributed by the overhanging of the last year’s income statement to the escalation of the income of single minimum pensioners. The country contributes, in addition to the income statement framework underpinning the social security operations, through the plan of escalation, which brings the same minimum pensioners up to a income of 2 G and which also provides a separate supplement to this for young people. My compliment to good political craftsmanship! While there is broad support in the attitude of the Labour and Social Committee to social security, the Progress Party chooses to stand out as usual. Both from previous debates and in today's setting, I note that the party does not support our policy of raising the weakest. They go far beyond the social security framework of the Storting, while the billions they grant are not targeted at reaching the most disadvantaged pension groups. It is a well-documented fact that there are lonely minimum pensioners who have it tough, and very many of them come below the poverty line. In the Central Party, we have also contributed to the lifting of the most difficult minimum pensioners. The representative of Engeset was polite and pleasant enough to recall what happened in 1998 under the then state council of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa's management of the Ministry of Social Affairs. We are happy to be able to repeat this this year. There has been a good social security settlement for those who labor the heaviest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e459	The social security system is of major importance to almost one quarter of the country's population and is thus among the main negotiations on incomes carried out this year. In discussions with the organisations, the government has agreed to increase the basic amount by 3444 kroner to 70 256 kroner from 1 May, which has been explained earlier today by this pulpit. The left has called for more to be given to those who need it most throughout the period, and so the Left believes that this year's social security settlement is an important step in the right direction for one of the groups that currently have the least, namely the minimum pensioners. The pension is their sole income and the possibility of other income is very limited. Among the lone minimum pensioners, especially among women, there is a lot of poverty. There is no doubt that the promise is significant for these. However, the Left is a bit critical of the fact that the real impoverishment, namely an increase in social assistance rates, although it does not affect this, has not been addressed. It is pointed out that everything is not necessarily entirely in port. But the left is satisfied with an escalation of the minimum pension to twice the basic amount. Regardless of that, the Left has the tradition that we are voting in favour of negotiated agreements, which the representative Engeset was also in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e473	In the social security settlement of the year, the Government, which is familiar with the parties, agreed to take three important steps: The pensioners with the lowest pensions get a historic boost. Through this change in basic amounts, we ensure that all pensioners develop well in income. We make sure that the group that has never got into work because of disability, and that has rarely had the opportunity to feed on work, also gets an extra boost, as several speakers have been about it. Everyone should be satisfied with this settlement. The social security settlement of the year is a major boost for the minimum pensioners and young people. The overall package agreed by the state, the pensioners and the disabled people's organisations has a very good social profile, which there is reason to be proud of. The social security system is a red-green distribution policy in practice. In the write-down proposal on social security, we are proposing, as you know, to increase the basic amount from NOK 66 812 to NOK 70 356 from 1 May of this year, resulting in an annual growth of 5,5 pst. This gives the pensioners and everyone else with G-regulated benefits a good real wage growth. Social security discussions also agreed to use parts of the financial framework resulting from the Swedish Social Security Guidelines to raise the minimum pension. The fall in retirement, disability and survivors' pensions from social security last year has been used to increase the special supplement, while the expected wage growth of employees from 2007 to 2008 has been used to increase the basic amount. It implies, as you know, that the minimum single pension increases by NOK 16 476, an increase of Pst 13.75. And married couples, both of whom are minimum pensioners, get an increase in the total pension by 31,896 kroner. In total, about two thirds of the minimum pensioners benefit fully from the special supplement increase. In addition, a minimum pensioner who has a spouse with an additional pension may receive a higher pension because the couple together is guaranteed twice the normal rate of the special supplement. The increase in the minimum pension will give a lone minimum pensioner $1,373 more a month to walk with. This is a lot of money for every single person that this applies. We know that this money will come in handy, because it's just among this group of pensioners that you find those who are primarily struggling financially. One has therefore agreed to raise the ordinary rate on the special supplement, thus targeting the increase in pensions just to those who need it the most. People who have a pension beyond the old minimum pension level will also benefit from this. In addition, the Government, as has been said from the pulpit, will propose to the Storting a further escalation of the minimum pension in the next few years, so that in 2010 it will be twice the basic amount. This level has long been a requirement of pensioners' organisations, and now we've done it. People who have fallen ill at an early age are a complex group of people. But they have in common that they have not earned special pension rights, either because they are born disabled or because they have become disabled at such a young age that they have not been out of work. Like most of us, these also go through an establishment phase with the costs involved. These people are currently receiving a guaranteed supplementary pension, a scheme that is very important to them, because it prevents people who become disabled at a young age from living on minimum pensions throughout their lives. The social security partners agree to improve the guaranteed supplementary pension scheme for lone young people, and the pension for this group is increasing by NOK 14 112. The government is pleased that we have agreed with the organisations to give this group a badly needed boost. As a group of pensioners in this settlement, they have increased their benefits in line with the wage growth of employees. Instead of an equal percentage increase for all, the parties known this year agreed on a low-wage profile, where with the lowest pensions they get an extra boost. Therefore, the social security bill of the year is a piece of work between the pensioners and the state, and it is very pleasant that there is full agreement between the parties on this result. The government will also commend organisations for their good and constructive cooperation, which was a prerequisite for achieving this historic outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e510	Let me re-note what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said in Stortinget on 21 May: ‘The Government intends to implement the social security scheme fully in line with the guidelines adopted by the Storting. Those guidelines are very clear, in the sense that you should both see if there is any lag from last year - and that is this year, and it has to be paid after - then you should also compensate for expected wage developments this year." So that's what the Council of State said in the Questionnaire on 21 May. Wednesday, 28 May, there will be an agreement on the social security settlement. One and a half weeks later, the government is presenting the staging proposition in Stortinget. What has made the government so until those degrees have turned 380 degrees, i.e. they don't implement to repay it? What has changed since then to the degrees of one week, and this is a violation of social security policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e522	When there has been one of the very best social security settlements in history, where there is full agreement between the parties, where the organisations have gained through to a great many of their demands, where one gets to a scheme that makes some of those who need it the most, whether there are lonely minimum pensioners, or young performers who have either been born disabled or have become it along the way, I find it interesting that the Progress Party uses such an opportunity, in such a historical situation, to criticise rather than be happy that one gives a handshake to those who need it. It is, as the representative Christoffersen said, that in terms of the lag from last year, one through these negotiations has agreed to redistribute to the benefit of the minimum pensioners, those who need it the most. That way you get a very good social profile, and you also get much more targeted use of this money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e529	Now the Council of State ‘stand in’ for the Council of State of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who has been ill-appointed, is correct, but I had nevertheless expected the Council of State to have been on the theme of the ministry itself in its letter of 12 June to the Committee, which reads as follows: ‘The Government’s proposal for a new basic amount from 1 May 2008 and the proposed special additional increases are estimated to provide 44,435 with additional minimum pensioners in 2008 and a further 7,620 in 2009 and 7,575 in 2010.’; So the sum of this is going to be almost 60,000 new minimum pensioners. That means that very many, especially women with small supplementary pensions, become minimum pensioners in this settlement. Is the Council of State concerned about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e539	I am concerned that what is negotiated, and that there is full agreement between all parties, is a handshake to some of those who need it the most. As the representative Karin Andersen said from this pulpit: in terms of what comes in crowns and ears, not least for young people, it is historic, and that is absolutely necessary. The same is true in the case of lone minimum pensioners, who really in the future will notice the money that is being negotiated here. There is also the background to the Government's decision to enter into these negotiations in an attempt to redistribute to the benefit of the minimum pensioners. The whole point of this settlement is that there are very many of those who need it the most, who will profit from it. It is a deliberate policy of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e544	The first Bondevik government in 1997 saw to it that the special supplement was increased. The minimum pensioners cheered, but representatives from the Workers' Party said at the time that it was nauseating, it was an unfairness, and it was little targeted. So something similar is happening today. The rise of the year in the minimum pension will lead to approximately 40000 more persons become minimum pensioners. But this is what the Government is now calling a historic boost. My question to the State Council of the Workers' Party is: what has changed so that what was previously negative today appears to be very positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e551	I think it is very positive that you have got a settlement that means a lot in dollars and cents for each individual person, which is one of the best social security settlements of the time, which is an agreement according to their demands, and that knows this on the body. It's a settlement that makes all pensioners get out of it well, but it's those who have the worst economy, who get the best out of it. We're very pleased with that, because it's a handshake for those who labor the most. Then we're proud of it. I'm also glad that it seems that the Storting is going to join it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e556	I don't feel that I got a clear answer to the previous line, and to repeat: State Council Hanssen said in the Questionnaire on 21 May that there has been a delay, and that the delay should be refunded. So the state council says this is because you're going to make a more social redistribution. Then I would like to challenge the Council of State to explain me in a simple and easy-to-understand way: why is it more right then to break the guidelines adopted by the Stortinget in 2003, to take part of the pension - which the Council of State has stood in this room and is to be paid after - from most pensioners in the country to give to one group of pensioners? Why is it better to take away the pensioners instead of a search warrant state being able to pay the extra supplement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e561	I note that the Progress Party in this matter, as in many other cases, has made proposals which are, firstly, very little targeted and, secondly, very expensive. What I find out is that the settlement we are talking about here is something that there is full agreement between the organisations involved in these negotiations and in this settlement. In fact, I believe that it is very good that there has been an agreement on, among other things. to use the seduction from last year to reach an extended hand to those who need it the most, for that is what is actually in what is now negotiated and what the Storting is to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e566	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e572	For those who live on a minimum pension or who have become unemployed at an early age, the social security balance for 2008 represents a significant improvement in purchasing power. In a society where wage growth is high, it is important to ensure that those who have the least to live off are not left behind in development. The adjustment of the basic amount of the population's money of approximately NOK 3 500 to NOK 70 256 from 1 May corresponds to an increase of 5,5 pst. from 2007 to 2008. This corresponds to the expected salary increase. The increase in the basic amount benefits all the insured. As a result of an increase in the special supplement, social security schemes provide a strong boost for the minimum pensioners, both the single and the married. For single minimum pensioners, the pension, as has previously been said in the debate, increases by approximately NOK 16 500. There's a lot of money for people who initially have little. It has to be called a good result. For married minimum pensioners, the pension also increases by nearly NOK 32000 for a married couple who are minimum pensioners. I would also like to emphasise, as many have done in the debate today, that the social security settlement partners also now agree to escalate the pensions of lone minimum pensioners to twice the basic amount from 1 May 2010 - it is an important principle that has become part of the year's settlement. So the social security plan contains a promise for young people. Persons born or who have died before the age of 26 will also have their disability significantly increased from 1 May 2008. The pension for single young people increases to nearly NOK 175 000 per year. years. The social security settlement of the year is very focused on those who currently live on the lowest retirement benefits. This is positive and part of the government’s efforts to reduce poverty in Norway. I also think it is important to point out, as many have done, the positive and happy thing that all the organisations involved in social security discussions agree on these kinds of priorities that have been made this year. They deserve that, too. It's an overall package of good social profiles, which gives them with the lowest pensions a significant improvement in purchasing power. That's good distribution policy. Improving the living conditions of minimum pensioners and young disabled people is important when we are going to work towards combating poverty in our society. Now there are the red-green parties that are doing something about it, that have made an agreement on this, and that are doing a remarkable improvement for those who have the least. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e589	The representative of Christoffersen said that this was a historic promise, and that the party of progress almost tried to camouflage that it was a historic promise. How can it be called a historic promise when, in reality, the basic amount of most pensioners is under-regulated and absorbed from last year? There's no historical boost. The historical must be - or it is not a historical thing, either - that this government believes the tradition only goes on with the practices that it has had in previous years, namely the continued underregulation of the basic amount. That's what's happening. Most pensioners in the country will have lower purchasing power than those in the labour market. That is the reality. That's what the majority of parties call a historic promise. You ask me, it's the government parties that, to the best of their ability today, try to camouflage the realities of social security by calling it a historic promise. Then the representative Christoffersen also said that the Pensioners' Association cheered and said it was 17 May after agreement was reached. But then probably also the representative Christoffersen noticed that not all the pensioners' organizations were equally happy and equally satisfied. I can only refer to a letter from the Swedish Armed Forces Pensioners' Association on 16 June and a letter from the National Pensioners' League on 10 June, which shows that they consider the underregulation that is now taking place to be unacceptable. They don't consider this exactly like being 17 May -- rather on the contrary. The two associations represent a lot of pensioners. The representatives Sundsbø and Andersen were also concerned that the Progress Party did not have a social profile. The party of progress was not there and took this gigantic promise. Yes, the Advance Party takes the gigantic promise. The Progress Party proposes to increase the basic amount of the population's population from NOK 66 812 to NOK 71 189 - not NOK 70 256 as proposed by the majority parties. We suggest that all the minimum pensioners -- not just the single ones -- get their pension increased to 2 G from 1 May this year, and that it should go over 3 years. We'll do it from May 1st this year. We're going to say, "Yes, it's time to do something for the young. 17 years have passed without having their supplementary pension adjusted. We say that we want to do it according to the demands we made last year, and increase the supplementary pension from 3.30 pension points to 4.30 pension points - not just from 3.30 to 3.50. Then my question becomes to the representative Sundsbø: Will this not lead to a better income already from this year, and that it will be better than waiting for three years to implement it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e604	In many debates, SV has been challenged by the Progress Party on the need to lift particularly lone minimum pensioners. When I have been asked, I have replied that I agree with that need, and I have fought for it. When we do this, the Progress Party complains that this is actually happening. I feel that when they can't meet their primary position, that's to spend an infinite amount of more money to get this done, and we get it through a redistribution, it's not the minimum pensioners that are the most important anyway. It has become clear during the debate that the minimum pensioners are not the first concern of the Progress Party in the field of pension policy. There we are, in that case, counterpoles, because in SV we are most concerned about it. The party also gives the impression that there is a loss of money in this social security scheme. It's not. Overhangs from old-age, disability and survivors' pensions have been distributed between the minimum pensioners and the young disabled. This is an agreement between the organisation that negotiated the social security settlement and the state. All the organisations involved in the discussions agreed on the priorities. The national team of public pensioners, who have sent letters, is part of the Union. They've agreed to the result. Then I think it is important – and I think everyone who is concerned about getting this kind of settlement and negotiated results in place, believes – that you actually respect the result. It's true that some more will be minimum pensioners, but they don't lose money. It is that in today's pension system there are many minimum pensioners, despite having paid into social security for very many years. It is one of the main changes in the new pension system, which the Progress Party is against. They want to keep a system where there's still going to be a lot of ladies working, paying in and still becoming minimum pensioners. I need to say that this affects tax rules. There we have said that the tax regime should be changed, so that a minimum pensioner is a minimum pensioner and does not have to pay taxes. The housing aid rules also need to be adjusted to make this a plus for pensioners. There are no other changes to make something disappear. Finally, I want to say to the Progress Party, and now we are talking about real money: this is a proposal that will be adopted. There's real money that the pensioners are going to get, and the minimum pensioners are going to get the most. Then the Progress Party says, "It wasn't that dangerous with the minimum pensioners anyway." When we don't get everything we want, we won't be involved in lifting them as we said was most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e619	Just on top of that, I want to get into something that has been raised in the debate. There are three things I'm going to take for myself. The first is the question from Martin Engeset, whether we're worried because there'll be more minimum pensioners after this settlement. It is tempting to return the question: Is Right concerned about it, and on what basis? It's like we have a system of curtailment, heads for heads, special supplements and supplementary pensions. When the level of solidarity in society increases, and we raise those at the lowest level, there will be more of those who have earned supplementary pensions, which, however, do not exceed the amount limit for special supplements, but they get nothing less. Probably a good part of those who have the very least supplementary pensions will also get a little bit more. We don't have to have that kind of worry in time. The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund wondered if a stepping up to 2 G in 2010 was a strategic choice of years, because then we left -- a little between the lines -- in a way to take responsibility, because it's not sure that it would be any of that. 2010 is a strategic year in this context, but not for that reason. In 2010, we introduce the new pension reform, and by taking the step up to 2 G, which leads to more minimum pensioners in today's system, we also raise the floor of the new pension system. With the new guarantee pension of 2 G at the bottom, everyone will get more, also in the new system. There you get earnings from the first dollar, with a certain share, so that in the new pension scheme we have cleared up just the kind of problem that Martin Engeset was dealing with. Just a little visit to Robert Eriksson: He makes it sound like we have sub-regulated G and have kept some money in the treasury that the pensioners should have had, and that we don't give out-- and Robert Eriksson nods. It's not like that. What has happened is that the delay that had to be paid has been paid out in the event of a redistribution within the group of pensioners. It has benefited them with the minimum pension. So the aftermath is redistributed within the framework. Yes, it's not exactly according to the guidelines adopted by the Stortinget, but I think the minimum pensioners can be happy that their own organisations, at their national meeting, clearly said that the fight for the minimum pensioners was priority no. 1st@item: inlistbox I don't think this would have happened if the pensioners' own organizations had not agreed to this redistribution, because as someone here says, this isn't exactly after the book. But there's a better book you've been following this time, and the pensioners' organizations have been involved. They say this is historical. They also refer to the point of entry for the guarantee pension of 2 G in the new reform. This is essential for our members, their own words.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e630	What made me take the floor was Martin Engeset's post, where he referred to our table in III. I find it regrettable that it is wrong in that table. It's about cap. 2655, heading 72. It shall be increased by 782 million. kr, not 600 mill. kr. In the case of cap. 2670, entry 73, it's going to increase by $2,134 billion, not $283 million. kr. It is not that these errors have occurred due to the Progress Party. We asked the department to make calculations, make the table and send it back. The Committee reminded it several times. It came to the committee just before we had to give it up, and it was inserted into the delivery document. I didn't have the opportunity in 10-15 minutes to do the check calculations for all the proceeds that the department had done. I ask you to understand that. When we get such a table from the department, I expect it to be right. I also record that it is the second year in a row that the Progress Party gets wrong figures from the department, and I think that is a pity. So to what's said here, it's those with the lowest performances that get the most. No, that's not right. A minimum pensioner who is married to an old-age pensioner who has earned an additional pension on, for example: NOK 70000, you will receive a minimum pension of NOK 109700, while a single minimum pensioner will receive NOK 136 296. Then I allow myself to ask, is 136,296 kroner a larger amount than 109,700 kroner? When I went to school, at least the former amount was greater than the latter, and I still expect that. Based on this example, a minimum pensioner and an old-age pensioner who has earned only NOK 70000 in supplementary pension - which applies to quite a number of pensioners - who live together will receive an annual income of NOK 10000 lower than the two minimum pensioners living together. That's the reality, if you sit down and count on this year's social security bill. That the party of progress will almost shut up to increase for everyone, and will do it much faster than the other parties, I think something unreasonable. I also think it's pretty easy to say that you've done this to get a better social distribution. I would have seen the representative Lise Christoffersen if we had come to her and said that you don't get as much pay raise as we promised you, because we're taking part in it and giving to the representatives of the Progress Party. I think we'd had quite a lot of protests about it. I don't think that would have been very desirable. And then we had a completely different situation. So you also have to be fair at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e645	Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e648	It may be, but then the Progress Party has to make a real profit from it, and I may be in doubt if the Advance Party is going to do so. But this is one of the same principle that we use in regular pay statements. Employees in this country have often reunited their demands to give more to those who have the least. So there's no unknown principle. What I took the floor for was just for the debate that has gone on numbers here. Robert Eriksson is right about what he says, that the table was late, and that it was probably hard to get time to read the proof. And it's a little unfair that the Progress Party should get pepper for error in that table. But there is one thing that the Advance Party should put on its own cloak, and also straighten out. They say that most of the country's minimum pensioners get their special supplement calculated at a low rate. That's not right. That's 37.8 pst. of the minimum pensioners with a low special supplement rate. The majority, above 62 p.m., has an ordinary rate. You have to correct this, and take responsibility for the error yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e657	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3946]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e673	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e682	The organised transport system, often referred to as the TT system, is crucial for persons who cannot use the ordinary collective offer. It's about facilitating an inclusive society for everyone, a society where each one can use their resources for their own benefit and for the benefit of others. It's about human dignity. The Christian People's Party is therefore very concerned that the TT system should work as well as possible. I also appreciate the commitment of the representatives of the Progress Party in this matter. The Party has proposed the development of national guidelines on the quality and quantity of TT transport and the promotion of a financing system for TT transport in line with national guidelines. The proposers also propose that the responsibility for the TT scheme be transferred from the county municipalities to the NAV-Labour and Welfare Act. Binding national guidelines will contribute to greater non-discrimination and will be more predictable for users than the current budgetary regime under the county authorities. This has been assessed by the cross-ministerial working group set up in connection with the wholesale treatment of St.prp. No 66 for 2002-2003 on local democracy, welfare and the economy in the municipal sector 2004. The Working Party found legal, practical, equality and economic challenges related to the design of binding national guidelines for the TT scheme. A national standard, which does not mean that any group receives a lower offer, will have significant budgetary implications. The working group estimated that if an average performance equivalent to that of Oslo, which is assumed to have the best-developed TT system, the national TT transport costs would have increased from 381 million. NOK 1.4 billion, measured in 2004 kroner. The working group discussed different models for the management of the TT scheme. Among other things, a reference to the fact that national guidelines in a county model would violate the general principle that the size and quality of the provision of public transport are determined by the county authorities themselves. A state model could, on its part, reduce the incentives of county councils to ensure universal design, because the benefits of reduced TT transport would then fall to the state. The Christian People's Party is positive that the organised transport related to work and education trips in the 2008 state budget has been transformed into a nationwide pilot scheme and assumes that this will be a permanent scheme. The Christian People's Party also supports the development of new, open and flexible collective services, including different arrangements for ordering transport, from door to door or to the nearest node. I am pleased that a joint committee other than the Progress Party is asking the Government to contribute to further developing that kind of mechanism in order to ensure that all citizens have better basic mobility through the development of offers that are available to all. On the basis of this, I and the Christian People's Party cannot see that a major change in the organisation of the TT system will be appropriate now, but we assume that the Government will promote offensive proposals to improve the TT system for the benefit of users in the 2009 government budget, within the framework of the existing organisational model. I am disappointed that the government parties were not willing to participate in a committee comment on such an offensive initiative on the TT regime in the 2009 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e710	To take the last one first, it's probably such a small law of nature in this room that it's easier to be offensive compared to next year's government budget when you're in opposition than when you're in position, at least at this time of year. Then we'll see what the government budget for next year would have to bring when it's presented. The proposal for a representative we are discussing now proposes changes to one of the many schemes in several sectors that will have a major impact on the opportunities for disabled people to participate in society in the same way as others. A week and a half ago, we adopted a new law of discrimination and accessibility, and in this context, we had a thorough debate on all the social barriers that prevent disabled people from participating in society in line with everyone else. There are obstacles in working life, in school, in leisure areas, outdoor areas, buses, trains, etc., unfortunately. So, together with the disabled people's own organisations, we celebrated the new law. June 10, 2008 was a historic day. Then we established a number of important principles about the equal value and equal importance of all people in society, and we secured some really obvious, but so far for many actually non-existent rights to work, education, leisure, etc. We introduced a protection against discrimination. At the same time, everyone realizes that it's now that the work is really starting. In the law, we set some deadlines for when things should be in order. In the regulations of the Law on Planning and Building, there were deadlines in other areas. And perhaps the most important thing: work is underway on an action plan where action and resources are seen in the context, because it is quite important to achieve something. What's the hurry to get in place? It may be too early to answer here and now, but at least there's a question that should be the guide for further work. In that work there should also be room for local adaptations in the solutions, because it is out in the community that people live their daily lives, and that is where you know best where the shoe prints the most. The Progress Party wants national standards in many areas. This proposal therefore concerns the TT scheme, which is a scheme under the responsibility of the county. For my own part, I'm not sure, but I'm not going to reject it, that national standards are the right way to go. Transport challenges are likely to vary considerably from state to state, and internally in the counties from municipality to municipality. Oslo Municipality is highlighted on the occasion of the case, but not everything works as well as you would like. At the same time, I believe that the challenges can quickly turn out to be different in other municipalities, for example. those with completely opposite characteristics of what characterises Oslo, namely municipalities that are small in population, but large in extent. They'll probably have transport challenges other than what we see in concentrated urban areas like this. The rapporteur has explained well the content of the matter and the majority position of the Committee, so I shall not spend time repeating it, just stressing that transport is of course one of the most important areas to put in place in order for the new universal access rights to become something more than paper regulations. Universal design of public transport we know will take time. Therefore, different types of individual organisation are essential in the meantime, and the TT scheme is part of that picture. At the same time, the Government's response shows that the Government is already working in several areas in the transport sector. It is therefore the opinion of the majority that it would not be appropriate for the Storting to now lift one of many elements out of an overall, systematic focus on availability. That is why we want the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes. In that case, it is not rejected, but included in the evaluations further, as one of several possible measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e733	It's now that a lot of people with disabilities are actually dependent on getting to and from to be able to participate in society in a similar way to the rest of the population. That is why the TT system has also been established, precisely to help a good deal of people with disabilities to participate in society. So it also varies greatly from state to state. Not only does it vary greatly from state to state how the offer is. It also varies to a certain extent internally in the individual counties. We had a case for a little while back that was in Trunder-Avisa. This was true of Frosta Municipality, which is a good example of how big differences there are in one and the same state. I think it's sad that it should be like that. I think you should have the same opportunities as others when you're disabled, to travel around the country. You should have a good order that was the same everywhere. I also receive a number of enquiries from people with disabilities who are on vacation, where one county can use the TT system, but if you are in another county, you cannot use it. If you have plastic cards, you can't use the scheme, but if you have other types of proof, you can use it. It's not a good order, at my discretion. For this reason, the Progress Party has promoted this proposal in order to achieve a fairer and better system, which the Joint Organisation of Disabilities of the FFO has also been involved in at each budgetary procedure. I record that a working group has been set up to look at it and follow up the size decision of 2003. I also record that it was the parties that are in government today, i.e. the government parties, that promoted this proposal, and demanded that it be implemented during 2004. Then you get into government and you don't do any of the world's things. I think it's disappointing. In addition, we also know that it was stated in the budget hearings last year from the FFO that they met with the Minister of Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and Steinulf Tongesvik, who was the State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport, where it was promised that the matter would be taken out in the State budget for 2008. The only thing in the 2008 government budget was that the system of travel at work and education was mentioned and that the scheme was to be continued as a pilot scheme in 2008. The scheme has been a pilot scheme since 2001. Both the FFO and we, as proposers, have requested, are to have a permanent arrangement. In this way, Stortinget has not accepted it in any way at my discretion. I also record what the State Council of Liv Signe Navarsete writes in a letter to the Committee on 20 May, stressing that national guidelines will contribute to greater non-discrimination and be more predictable for users than the current budget-driven scheme under the County Council. I fully agree with the State Council of Liv Signe Navarsete, but I don't understand why you can't then run this case, get done with it and get the same guidelines. Why does that have to be different? Why don't we have the best possible equal treatment? Why do we have to accept the big differences that are today for the disabled? I think it's sad. I think it is sad that we cannot have a better and greater progress in this matter. The proposal was promoted by us at the end of March - if I do not remember faults - and is for treatment now. I understand that it was difficult to get it reviewed, but we could have dealt with the matter earlier. There is nothing to suggest that we had to wait a long time in May to deal with this matter and get it up in Stortinget now in June. That is why I am proposing - and I am addressing our proposal - that we get this matter back in 2009 and that we accept what both the proposers and the FFO have asked for in several budgetary consultations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e754	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e757	I will join the post both from the case rapporteur and from Lise Christoffersen, who went through the matter very well and thoroughly, so there is no need for me to do so. It is absolutely right that there are major differences in this area in the country. I also believe that we need to realise that the area of transport is perhaps one of the areas where there is the greatest left in terms of equality in relation to being able to move forward in society, for those who cannot use either car, public transport or other means of transportation, as the majority can. Many schemes in this area are intended to compensate for this. Lise Christoffersen went very carefully through all the work that is going on in this area. One of the arrangements that I'm very happy for is there, is work and education trips. I think maybe the Progress Party has gone a little way, because I'm pretty sure that the undersigned took the initiative for that scheme and got it adopted in the Storting, but there's no big point in itself. The point here is that a lot of different arrangements are needed to be equal to others in society. That is why I think it is important now to look at all the different schemes together, and to look at both the anti-discrimination and accessibility law for people with disabilities, and the action plan that follows it - that is, all the instruments taken together. Then at least my prediction is that we want to see a different type of TT service in the future than the one we see today. The connection of the TT system to public transport in the various states is, I believe, a problem, because public transport is so different. When, as a matter of principle, the TT system is intended to replace public transport, it basically means huge differences. For example: Oslo is good for public transport. In Hedmark we strive to get an offer. Small people live in many places, so the offer must necessarily be bad. It does not mean that the transport needs of the person with reduced mobility are lower there than elsewhere. At the same time, however, the principle of connection to public transport has been an important principle for the organisations of disabled people. Because when I have talked to them about this, they have said that we are not asking for special arrangements, we are asking for schemes to compensate for not being able to take the bus that goes, or take the train that goes. That means that sometimes we talk about a little bit of different things: whether it's going to be a system that's like this, because then there's actually going to be very big differences because the collective offer in the country will be very different, no matter what we do, it will. Or if you're going to break a principle and say that's not what it's all about, it's about covering a transport need for the person who has a movement inhibition. I don't know exactly where I'm going to land in that case, but there are at least important fundamental clarifications that we have to come to in the future. Then I am absolutely convinced that to the extent that we manage to develop good order routes, especially perhaps in the countryside, but certainly also in densely built strips, a good part of those who today need to meet their needs through the TT transport will be able to get it covered there. And then you'll be left with a need for a TT transport that will be more of a door-to-door transport, which is a special transport. It is also the case that there is a small technical problem in the country, which is that there are very few taxis that are large enough and are able to take these transports. It's a slightly different matter, but it's an important part of this system. So finally, yes, this is a matter that many of us have burned for a very long time and still do. But if we are to get this into the budgets ahead, we must be able to prioritise it against many other measures in the transport sector that many parties are engaged in. And then we'll see, when it carries the heel, if we're able to put this as high as the debate today might suggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e772	As the vote shows, the Central Party supports the proposalers' wish that we develop the TT system to be a better offer for those who need to organise transport. However, unlike the Progress Party, the Centre Party believes that it is important that the TT regime be organised in such a way that there is still room to choose local or regional solutions. Today, the states operate the scheme. I believe it would also be wise in the future to choose a model of operation and funding that takes into account the different needs in different parts of the country. Therefore, I cannot support the introduction of a State responsibility for the TT scheme, but I would like to contribute to a discussion of which guidelines are the best to achieve the desired result. Several have referred to the new Discrimination and Availability Act. It's like one of the success criteria for this law is if we reduce the need for organized transport because we get a universally designed transport service. In areas with broad collective coverage, the need for TT transport can change as we achieve universal design. In other parts of the country, where public transport has a smaller volume, I think that ordering can be an important part of the transport offer, which provides assistance to those who need to organise. Order transport allows more people to use collective services, and fewer people need to order a taxi. In addition, I know from my own municipality that having municipal minibuses that pick up people who ask to be driven to the store or to a barber or playtime once a week works very well. My parents are delighted that they can call once a week and say that now we want to go to Fetsund. Then the bus comes and picks them up, and they get made errands, beside that they also get to meet others at the same age. They are very satisfied with that system and it is highly recommended for other municipalities as well. It is important that a future TT model opens up a wide range of solutions, and that the TT model does not stand alone, but that we look it up against other forms of transport organisation for those who need it. I hope that future TT systems will ensure that it is possible for those entitled to TT travel to use it throughout the country. Today, it is too much to be done within its own country. It's an unfortunate part of the code. I should have liked the Ministry of Transport to see if we can organize it this way, at least within the guidelines that are, that if you have the right to TT transport, you can use it wherever you want.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e783	Municipalities are responsible for local public transport. Within this responsibility, municipalities are obliged to provide organised transport schemes for people who, for various reasons, cannot use ordinary public transport. The aim of organised transport is to make disabled people more transport-friendly and equal to the rest of the population. The Ministry of Transport developed an action plan for the disabled in the transport sector in 1997. This plan also provides guidance for TT transport. The guidelines take into account the case management, user approval and supply content. The county authorities have followed the recommendations of the action plan to a large extent. However, as for ordinary public transport, there are considerable differences in the TT supply between municipalities. Local priorities are included here. Binding national guidelines for TT transport, as I understand it in this proposal, could lead to greater equality in supply. On the other hand, such conversion will have both economic and administrative consequences. The question of national guideline for TT transport was assessed by a cross-ministerial working group in 2005. This group considered it to be both legal, practical and similarity problems in the design of binding national guidelines. One thing is that such a system will have economic consequences. A different approach could be to set a minimum standard for TT transport which is slightly lower than the one available in the best-selling countries today. One would then be able to lift the supply in some county municipalities. On the other hand, there is a risk of a reduction in the provision of services in the counties that currently have the best supply, as a result of which these counties will adapt to the minimum standard. In other words, the issue of binding national guidelines has several aspects. In view of this, I did not consider it possible to present a realistic approach to national guidelines for TT transport, with funding arrangements, in the 2008 RNB, as proposed. I would also like to point out that TT transport is one of several measures to improve accessibility in the transport sector. As pointed out by the proposers, the part of the organised transport related to work and training trips has been converted into a nationwide NAV pilot scheme, irrespective of local priorities. I would also like to refer to the work being done to make the transport sector more accessible through the follow-up to the BRA programme and proposals from the Syse Committee in NOU 2005:8. This work will over time improve the availability of ordinary public transport and thus make it easier for people with disabilities to use ordinary public transport. Finally, I would like to point out the work done to facilitate better public transport in the districts. This work will include: tried out different schemes of booking transport. This is a form of transport that will be particularly suitable for the disabled. Although the availability of people with mobility problems in ordinary public transport over time is improved, I am aware that there will always be groups who will need separate organised transport. So I don't care if it's possible at a later stage to develop the TT supply for these groups. However, this will have to be done within the framework of the management of public transport, and according to the responsibilities we have defined between the state and the county councils, where a majority of the Stortinget wants to give the county more local self-government, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e804	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e808	One of the co-operation parties of the Council of State, namely the Norwegian Labour Party, had as a slogan in the previous election: ‘Everyone should join’. Today, we have about 440,000 people who have a different type of disability, reduced function. Many of them depend on a good transport service. The first question I ask myself then is: When the Council itself says in its reply of 20 May that ‘national guidelines will contribute to greater non-discrimination’ and ‘be more predictable for users than the current budgetary system under the control of the county councils’, why do you not want to have a more equal treatment system? And can the Council of State guarantee here and now that she will sign out on this matter, that is, the proposal that today's government parties promoted in 2004 at the 2009 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e813	To take the last one first, I'm not going to guarantee the progress of this case, but what I can guarantee is that the government will continue its good work to facilitate the provision of public transport for people with disabilities, and that's what we're going to do through different flexible schemes. The most important thing is that the individual is given an offer where the relevant cage, whether it is in town or built, and that we can develop more flexibility in the system we have than what is in force today. This is a system, or an offer, that is important for the individual, and the Storting has just passed a law that makes it very difficult for us to make the transport sector more accessible to everyone. That work has priority, and it will also have priority over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e818	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e823	I'll try to be very short, but I just want to solve two things. The working group referred to presented its position in 2005. The FFO met with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport and the Minister of Labour and Inclusion in 2007. At the time, it was promised that this would be confirmed in the 2008 state budget. So hasn't happened, in my opinion at least. I think that's a shame. And at the same time, so much time is spent in voting from the majority parties to justify why we can't do this - it has such a large cost component with it, it will cost so much money. Is that how to understand that -- who likes to characterize ourselves as the richest country in the world, who will join under 500 billion dollars in profits this year -- we won't be able to afford to spend 1 billion dollars to get a fairer transport offer for the disabled? I don't understand that way of thinking. That is why I hope once again that the Council of State and the Government will sign off on this matter, as we propose, at the 2009 state budget. I fervently ask that you do that, without having too much hope from the Council of State's response in the line-word exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e828	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3948]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e844	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by 5 minutes to each group of parties and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e853	This case is part of a larger aggregate proposition, St.prp. No 45, of which the other nine individual cases were dealt with earlier here in Stortinget. This part concerns governance systems in the state road system after the evaluation report on the crash in the Hanekleiv tunnel was presented by the Government and dealt with here in Stortinget as a matter of its own in the past. The matter has been thoroughly investigated by the Department and refers to how the Department disregarded the internal audit of the Directorate-General for Road Affairs because of its inadequacy and, I would add, bias towards its own management and organisation, and how the Department then engaged the Agenda Foresight & Development AS to carry out a review of the case, because the internal audit's own report "did not answer the questions that the Ministry of Transport wanted to clarify" to quote the proposition. Let me add that one of the reasons why this chapter in the proposition was dealt with separately was that the committee needed more time on the matter, and in this work it has gone relatively deep into the course of events and the documents of the case. On this occasion, I would like to thank the Department for the delivery of the material the Committee wanted to look into. It may have taken some time, but the process revealed personal sensitivity, and the material we received was adequate and clarifying in such a way that there was no need for consultation in the matter. In my opinion, a hearing had been more suitable to damage the case than to appear to be clarifying. Both public and non-public documents clearly show that the internal control body of the State Road Administration has not had the necessary objectivity to ensure the confidence of the Internal Control Institute of the Road Directorate. The Ministry immediately reviewed the internal control of the Directorate of Roads and took the matter into account, which unfortunately necessitated that the director of the road had to be permitted, and then went off at the age limit. Allow me to be a little personal: I think we are more in the committee who feel the need to express that Olav Søfteland was a road director who in political circles enjoyed great recognition as a professional and co-worker in meeting us politicians. He was also an enthusiast, and accommodating, as far as possible, to the many initiatives for important road projects from the quite country with which he was confronted. The majority note in the statement that if the Road Directorate’s own control body and then the management had handled the matter in a more reliable and correct way, yes, the outcome might also be different. I shall not go into detail, but the documents of the case speak their clear language about these matters. The agenda report refers to insufficient management and command line in the organisation and points out the obvious shortcomings that have occurred in the Road Directorate in setting up its own production unit in 1995. The plywood tunnel was known to start in 1996. The Agenda Report is also clear that the reorganisation of the State Road Service in 2003, at the time of Mesta’s separation, has helped to ensure that this kind of ambiguity and lack of reporting systems will no longer be possible, because the expansion department is separated from the State Road Service as its own enterprise. The main conclusion of the Agenda Report is that, following the modernisation of the department, namely the closure of the development department, clear responsibilities have been given, and the Directorate of Roads has become, to a greater extent, an order organisation, with clear responsibilities and management system ‘which is essentially satisfactory’, as described by the Department. The majority of the Committee trusts that the current management of the Road Directorate is working to restore confidence by ensuring that the internal control and reporting body and reports maintain a professional and reliable level which does not give rise to doubt that the cases are properly, factually, objectively and objectively presented. The Progress Party has its own comments, and I expect them to explain their point of view. On the right, we are working purposefully to modernise the state transport administration and the bureaucracy as well. We believe that this case shows that the Bondevik II government's separation of Mesta as its own company was right, and that this is a line we should continue. In the opinion of the Right, the Road Directorate should become a pure-bred planning, ordering and control organisation and all tasks that may be carried out by others should be distinguished. On the right-hand side, we have previously taken the initiative for a separate roadside inspection. We are aware that the department is investigating this now, but we still find it natural, in the extension of this matter, to re-examine our proposal that we have promoted in the position together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. I am therefore addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e887	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e890	The origin of this case has been destroyed in the Hanekleiv tunnel on 25 December 2006. Fortunately, no one was hurt. We can be happy for that. However, the event became a serious disaster. We have had the impression that Norway and the State Road Administration have had the greatest expertise and expertise in tunnel construction and operation. The event therefore sparked a debate on safety and organisation in road and tunnel construction. This is an important debate, and the report ordered by the Minister for Transport provides us with answers to many of the key questions about the routines and communication that have been raised in the debate. At the same time, extensive work has been undertaken on additional tunnel inspections throughout the country. So in connection with the crash in the Hanekleiv tunnel and the active follow-up from the government's side, one might say, as it's often said, that it's never so crazy that it's not good for anything. The government presents a thorough review of the case complex. I think there is reason to point out that the Committee, apart from the members of the Progress Party, commends the Government for this work and the detailed documentation. The progress party does not cost itself a single positive formulation. I would like to highlight the Council's action and efforts in this matter. From the fall she has had a firm grip on repairing and securing the tunnel, strengthening the overhaul of other tunnels, providing extra clearances so that the securing of the cabin tunnel and increasing surveillance are not taken from other road projects, and now, finding out the causes of the crash and initiating improvements in the procedures in order to avoid such accidents occurring in the future. Of course, it is one of the many tasks of the Council of State, but I just want to stress that the Minister of Transport has done his job in a thorough and exemplary way. Through the many reports drawn up after the event on Christmas 1, 2006, the last so-called Agenda Report, which is the background to the issue we are dealing with today, it has been found that the reorganization in 1995 led to a gap in the perception of the building owner role in different parts of the state road system. This gap led to a lack of control in connection with the construction of the Hanekleiv tunnel, which in turn appears to have led to the dramatic crash in the normally so heavily trafficked tunnel. The ratios that are discovered are completely unacceptable -- something that the Working Party and I have pointed to a number of times -- because there have been many possibilities of speaking in this matter, which have been in the media searchlight a number of times after the crash. Now that we've got the report that detects unclear organisation and unclear responsibilities, the media's strong focus on the Hanekleiv tunnel appears to be right, although many have thought in their silent mind that if such a race had gone far away from Akersgate, it wouldn't have got the same attention. In any case, we have been shown that different perceptions of control procedures in the State Road Service have led to the construction of the tunnel in question not being constructed as planned. Fortunately, the report also shows that the Road Administration departments in other counties have understood the role divisions correctly and in line with their intention. Thus, the report does not give any reason to fear a nationwide tunnel damage. At the same time, new organisations have eliminated the relationship that creates ambiguity in Westfold. Following strong pressure from the Government, the road services have come a long way in internal clean-up work and are now establishing better procedures in a number of areas to strengthen quality assurance in road projects in general and tunnel projects in particular. The report states that there is a potential for improving quality practices, and that is the potential that is now to be exploited. In addition, the regulations for road tunnels are tightened, so there is good reason to believe that tunnel safety in Norway is increasing. Of course, it is a pity that the State Road Administration itself could not provide a correspondingly clear report on the organisation of the tunnel construction in North Westfold. But now we've got the facts on the table, and the Vegvesen is doing a good job of improving their routines. And that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e911	The short version is that there is a «uvesen» in the state road system. It has been, and it is unfortunately still. It is unacceptable, and in the opinion of the Progress Party, the Council of State must clean up better. In the light of the accident in the Hanekleiv tunnel, several investigation teams and working groups, as well as the internal audit in the Road Directorate, have looked at the underlying causes of the race and any measures to avoid such events in the future. So, after this has been done in the department's own direction, the department has come to the conclusion that the question needs to be clarified better. An external survey has been carried out by the Agenda on reporting procedures and dissemination of management information during the period of construction of E18 in northern Vestfold, together with a review of similar conditions in the State Road Service of today’s organisation. This last one is probably as important as the actual starting point. Both information and documentation show - as I started to say - that in our opinion there has been a «uvesen» in the state road system, an unculture to give its own establishment simpler rules and less control, as the establishment itself also had production department. Of course, that's unacceptable. I quote from the Agenda Report under the heading «The main message of the report»: ‘In accordance with the guidelines, it was not foreseen to be necessary for the special follow-up of production under its own direction by its own builder. This probably had its reasons for not having to control one's own employees in the same way as private contractors. On the other hand, the guidelines say that there should be no smaller requirements for own production. Simplification of control and follow-up of production will necessarily also lead to a transfer of responsibility. The Road Directorate did not contribute to clarifying this relationship.’ - I strongly emphasize it. This was, therefore, the conclusion of the report. AscendingSort order for mail groups And on the other hand, ‘This provided a basis for different practices. Several informants show that there was a general perception in the department that production should be controlled less than the production under the direction of private contractors.’ The Progress Party believes that this appears to be a strong criticism by the Directorate-General of Roads. The Progress Party clearly believes that this criticism also affects the management of the Development Department, but notes that this management has not changed. The Progress Party has taken note of the Ministry of Transport's emphasis that the Ministry agrees with the Agenda that the Vegvesen has a potential for improvement in important, concrete areas, namely on documentation and quality reporting procedures and assessment of risk conditions in development projects. We have noted what the Agenda has seen of management systems and responsibilities within today's road system, the so-called voluntary culture of compliance with management signals and reporting requirements. The Progress Party assumes that the Ministry of Transport ensures that the necessary improvement is actually implemented and continued. We have noted in particular the statement in the matter itself, which is the basis for the setting here. I quote: ‘Although requirements for quality system and procedures are well described and made known, there is still a part to ensure that systems and procedures are understood, documented and reported.’ The Progress Party believes that the Ministry of Transport also ensures that these conditions are followed up well, in particular with the background that the Directorate-General of Road Development has not changed its management after the Hanekleiv incident. We assume that this is done through external assessments, and that the size is kept properly informed about the work. We believe, of course, that this kind of unculture that we're being documented is unacceptable. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. We still believe that this matter, with all the necessary clarity, demonstrates - and I'm afraid unfortunately - that there is an urgent need to put in place a comprehensive and independent transport supervision, a supervision for the whole transport sector. In the context of independent transport supervision, we propose the establishment of a system for the classification of the national road network. This is closely related. After all, there must be a system of supervision. And we propose extending the legal responsibility of the state in the Road Code. Subsidy, we will support the Right's proposal to establish our own roadside supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e952	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e955	What we are doing today is in many ways a summary and an evaluation of what happened in the Hanekleiv tunnel crash, which created a very large and broad debate about safety in the tunnels around the country. I'm not going to use my five minutes for this. I want to thank the case rapporteur for a very thorough and good job on this matter. It is a job that has resulted in the opposition and position actually being able to stand together and draw common conclusions and look forward to a time when we have put in place new procedures to ensure that the tunnels in the future are secured so that we can have confidence in the operation and tendering of tenders for tunnel construction. I think it is very gratifying that I, as the centre representative, can join both the post of the case rapporteur and the post of the spokesman for the position, Rudihagen, and that we are now united together to facilitate a future of safe tunnel construction in Norway. I would also like to pay tribute to the Minister, who handled this matter and in an exemplary way brought forward a material to the Committee which enabled us to end up as we have now, dealing with this matter. Finally, I would just like to stress that the Christian People's Party is still standing in its position that setting up a stand-alone roadside supervision will create greater safety in the construction of tunnels. I would ask the position to look at the proposal. I know that the minister has said in the past that they have this oversight in the road sector to assess. I hope that we will have a debate on this in connection with the national transport plan, and perhaps see the possibility of such supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e966	Initially, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a good and thorough work. The left is very concerned that everyone should be able to travel safely on our roads, without dangerous traffic conditions that could endanger people's lives. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has carried out a thorough review of the crash in the Hanekleiv tunnel. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee points to the efforts of the Bondevik II Government in this area, when it is pointed out that the Agenda Report states that the separation of production tasks in the State Road Administration has created a clear and unambiguous distinction between the order and delivery role in the road sector. The Bondevik II government received much criticism of the opposition to the separation of Mesta AS - a grip that has subsequently been shown to have given clearer responsibilities, more efficient operations and more money. The separation of Mesta AS has saved the public for billions, and at the same time you can refer to these positive effects here today. I would have liked to have shown a willingness to transfer these experiences to the railway sector, which today are marked by similar role conflicts and unclear responsibilities - without being a topic here today. In spite of the fact that the previous government did some action that has given better organisation and clearer responsibilities in the road sector, it is therefore the case today that the State Road Administration is still responsible for safety, while at the same time being responsible for the economic priorities within the framework of which the agencies are allocated. It is still the case that safety is at risk of becoming a balancing item when the Road Administration buys services from road contractors. Consequently, there is a risk that safety will not be adequately emphasised in new installations, in maintenance and in repairs. I have experienced that the audience has approached me about traffic hazards because they have not come through at the State Road Service. Today’s organisation also makes it more difficult for independent operators and the public to verify the safety performance of the state road system. It is unfortunate that the State Road Service controls itself within an area that requires great openness and humility to the public at all times. Finally, the Left will emphasise the importance of the establishment of independent roadside supervision in Norway in order to strengthen road safety work. This will improve road safety and contribute to more transparency in the road sector. It is therefore good that the Government has set up a selection to address the need, although the Left believes, like a number of organisations, that the need is present. The left had seen that the government's selection had instead explored the authority of the oversight.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e981	First of all, I would like to say that I am very satisfied that a joint transport and communication committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, seems to be satisfied with the job that has been done to go through the management and reporting systems and procedures in the State Road Service. I would also like to thank you for your good words in the debate. The most tunnel-technical aspects related to the fall in the Hanekleiv tunnel sixteen years ago were reported as being in a proposition handled by the Stortinget last spring. My main focus after this has been to get an image of what made these events happen, just why they weren't caught, and whether there's any reason to believe that something similar could happen today. To get a most unsound assessment of these sites, I chose to engage external consultants to look at the management and reporting systems in the vegetation, both in the period of construction of the Hanekeliv tunnel, and today. Although the Agenda report may be said to be critical of the systems of the State Road Service in the 1990s or their follow-up, I choose to focus most on the assessments of the Road Service as it is today. Here, the Agenda assesses the responsibilities between the different levels of the Vegetarian organisation as smart and the reporting chain is clear. Even though Agenda thinks that something similar to what happened in the Hanekleiv tunnel, should not be happening today, they point to some area that could be better, and these I have presented in St.prp. No 45 for 2007-2008. This concerns evidence of what is actually being done, reporting procedures related to the quality of work being done, and the assessment of risk factors in development projects. I am quite happy that a broad majority is satisfied with, yes even saying they are happy, the assessments I have presented, and that the areas for improvement are taken up and actively working on further development. I think such a broad plurality would be a worthy sentence for the political discussion that has been about what happened ten to fifteen years ago, who did what, how responsible was or should be, and who should take his hat and walk. I interpret this broad majority as a desire to go further in the way I have tried to sketch in the proposition, which is about taking the necessary action so that the State Road Service is seen to be even better able to do the job they are actually supposed to do. I have recorded that there is greater discomfort when it relates to the process of self-monitoring in the road sector. At the same time, I notice that there are several different suggestions from the minority on what is the best solution to this. The public selection that has been set down shall be submitted before the end of the year, and when this is done, together with the Government, I will have a good professional basis for evaluating the issue. The case will then be presented to Stortinget in the appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e994	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e998	I have not realized that this matter is a character book for the Council of State, but at least let me say that it is good to have government councils that respond and act. That's what this Council of States does. I agree with the Council of State that the most important thing about the matter is actually the current situation. I'll again quote from the actual proposition, page 3, column 1. After finding that this is a potential for improvement, the following conclusions are made: ‘In this context, it is an important task of the tenants to be attentive to the loyalty of routines and procedures and to ensure that lack of loyalty has consequences.’ I assume that it applies at all levels, that this is not just a top and bottom position, a threatening index finger to the people on the floor or down in the organisations, but that this applies to the entire organisation, including the top management and leadership level of the organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1010	Of course, it applies at all levels. I am pleased that this report concludes as he does, that the State Road Service has undergone a continuous improvement after the time when the basis for the events in the Hanekleiv tunnel took place, i.e. the construction of the tunnel itself. An organisation like the State Road Service is a large and complex organization. It requires clear and good rental at all levels. Of course, it also requires loyalty to decisions at all levels and systems that are verifiable. There is a lot of work to do to improve the systems. I mean, the report is very clear on that. It shall still be in a living organisation that every single day should work with improvements to be even better. I have great confidence that the work done in this particular area of the State Road Service today will produce fruits, and that we will have even better road construction systems in the future – and that is the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1017	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3948]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1035	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by 5 minutes to each group of parties and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1044	The representative proposal, which is repeated in the setting of the Christian People's Party and the Left, is summed up in three points, which I expect other representatives will go in and do more thorough work than I want to do now. In short, one proposes, for the first time, an action plan for better organisation of cyclists in cities and agglomerations, and, for the second, a support scheme, corresponding to the public transport concession scheme, and, thirdly, an amendment to the code for running goods which makes it more profitable to cycle. A plurality, consisting of the parties other than the Christian People's Party and the Left, suggests that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes. But there's reason to point out that a plurality, all the unbecoming Progress Party, which has its own comments, gives the proposal a very positive review. We are a few in that better organisation of cyclists brings great social benefits when it comes to road safety, the environment and traffic management, as well as the benefits of health. We point out that the ratio of the pathogens now is far too poor in most of the country. The risk of accident in cycling is too high. Lack of organisation, confusion and lack of respect for traffic rules lead to dangerous traffic situations for all road users. It is desirable and possible that many of the journeys that are currently being made by car can be carried out by bicycle. State and local authority therefore need to implement a number of measures to facilitate multiple bicycles. This plurality also suggests that there is a need for increased physical organisation for cyclists, better information and training in the traffic rules for cyclists, a holding effect on both cyclists and other road users and a number of other measures. The Labour Party, Right, SV and the Central Party indicate that the Government will submit proposals to the National Transport Plan shortly. This plurality suggests that this plan must contain a bicycle strategy with clear measures. We also state quite clearly that the draft representative refers to several good ideas and actions that the Government should take note of and consider in its work on the transport plan. So there's no doubt that the proposal will be positively met in this setting. For my part, I would like to stress the importance of my own strategy of clear action. Yes, if a choose to call it an action plan, please do so for me. However, it is the annual budgets that are determined whether or not we are doing well enough to prioritize cycling measures. When the Government is about to propose a new national transport plan, it is of course home. It is also a bike strategy in the current transport plan with clear objectives of at 8 pst. of all journeys by bicycle. If I do not quote the climate agreement incorrectly, I think it says the goal is 10 pst. In cities and agglomerations, the goal is to double bicycle traffic, and it is also said that 80 pst. children and young people must go or cycle to and from the school. It is clear that we need to achieve these objectives, to facilitate cycling in a much better way, and to give greater priority to the future. A number of measures are proposed in the NTP cycle strategy proposals. It is not mentioned by a support scheme, nor is it the first-kilometre fare. So I think it's constructive input that lies in the proposal here, which one has to include in the further work on the national transport plan. In other countries, targeted efforts have produced results. In Stockholm, the bike actually has an increase of 50 pst. since 1998. But we also see in many other countries that the number of cyclists is much larger, but there is also another culture of bicycles and another stop for cyclists at the bilist. Don't misunderstand me - I also think that the lists should respect traffic rules and behave properly in traffic. But those stops you meet when you're on the bike path in Norway, you can't find one down in Europe. On the contrary, they're on the searchlist - in Norway, there's the thumb down and the face out of the car to use a bad mouth on the searchlists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1072	Christian People's Party does not engage in industrial mass production of Document No. Eight proposals and recycling Document No. Eight proposals. They come with a few quite few. That means one has to treat them seriously. That's what government parties have done. In this way, the Christian People's Party comes together to a great extent, rather than just downplaying the ideas they have, as one often does with the suggestions of those who produce overcapacity. Then I have to have my standard replica of the old government parties - that is, that SV agreed in connection with the outdoor news a national bike strategy that the Bondevik government and other party were to develop. But I record that they were not overworked when they put in government, by doing something for the search lists. On the contrary, we had to replace the government so that something would happen for the searchlists, as in most other cases. But now I'm on it. There is much more to bet on the lists, but it may be better, and that is the starting point for the old government party Christian People's Party when they present this. I myself have a very good relationship with the two-wheelers, both those who have an engine and those who are not. It's an important and smooth way to get there, the one with an engine is telling you, but the other doesn't. It's a way to stay in shape and a way to get into things that don't hurt anyone -- at least not really hurt anyone, and it's environmentally friendly. To do what the Christian People's Party says - to look at taxation and to see if it is possible to stimulate more people to ride, as they say in one of the points, seems to me to have something in common. There's also something we've discussed inside the Government. We have not come to a conclusion, but it is absolutely a proposal that I think is tricked - based on climate, in the environment and in health. When it comes to getting your own action plan, to get a better understanding of the health list, I would say that it is now doing something about environmental car sales in the Ministry of the Environment - where one says that one should appreciate those who are more committed to the urban environment, who are investing in the climate, who are investing in getting a better environment, who are investing in getting more people on bicycles - we are already in the process of doing so. Then we will have to evaluate the proposal further in relation to the NTP process that the government party is now doing. Nevertheless, the starting point is that getting more on a bike is something that the government wants. There's something a lot on Stortinget really wants. I record that those who are constantly discussing why they are for tolls in Oslo, but against tolls in the rest of Norway, do not engage in getting more people to ride. That's what I thought was a little stupid. It would have been fun if all the parties had been on it. The Christian People's Party has come up with a proposal that is partly already taken care of by the Government, but which one should look at more closely, so that there is a more offensive strategy to get more people to ride in Norway. So there's nothing more to say about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1087	First, let me thank the case rapporteur for an effective and good discussion of a proposal for a representative who came in late. We agree that it is very important to better facilitate relationships for those who want to use bicycles as a means of emergence. It is environmentally friendly, it is good for health, and it is traffic efficient. Today, the conditions for cyclists are too poor in most places, which is also acknowledged by a majority of the committee. Of course, I am pleased that the majority is asking the Government to take note of the good proposals mentioned in the proposal for a representative. But if there's something the cyclists are used to, then it's a nice word that Hallgeir Langeland's representative came up with when it was about the previous government. This proposal for a representative has been promoted because it is still, largely, only fine words in terms of bicycles, and we need to reach a common ceiling in this respect. What we need now is concrete action. There is cross-political agreement on the importance of facilitating cyclists, and I think the positive reception given to the proposal is gratifying. The majority of the Committee describes in its opinion that the Government should take note of and consider measures relating to the national transport plan, and asks for a specific bicycle strategy. It is well and good, but national bike strategy has existed for many years. There is no lack of strategy that is the problem. There is a lack of action and implementation of concrete measures that are the problem, as some have emphasised here. That is why the Christian People's Party, together with the Left, proposes that a separate action plan with concrete commitments be drawn up. National cycle strategy, which has thus existed for many years, and which was last revised in the context of the national transport plan 2010-2019 proposed by the authorities, provides a number of recommendations on actions within the infrastructure area. Most of the measures recommended by transport modes in the national cycle strategy are within the national transport plan, but some of the measures are outside. That's why the Christian People's Party wants a plan that is something more than a strategy within the national transport plan. The scope of action cannot be covered by the transport plan. This applies, inter alia, to: the financial instruments. In addition, the government has shown a lack of ability to follow up the bike strategy, and I'm afraid the cyclists will again ‘disappear’ in the big news. Now is the time to gather, make visible and make an effort for bicycles. In the last 20 years, it has been shown that a bicycle bet must be dealt with on an independent basis and not as part of a national transport plan. A separate action plan is needed to ensure commitment and cross-ministerial action. In this setting, the Progress Party points to a sharp increase in bicycle-related accidents. The representatives of the Party stress the responsibilities of the cyclists for responsible traffic behaviour. In the Christian People's Party, we join the concern about damage statistics. I of course agree that cyclists, like all other road users, are responsible for acting with care. Not least they are responsible for knowing and complying with traffic rules. Interactions with other groups of road users are necessary and it is absolutely necessary to facilitate improved training of cyclists. Then I think in particular about the training we can get in primary and secondary schools. One of the most important things we can do is to improve this by establishing a continuous urban and urban cycling network, where bicycle traffic has its own road networks separated from cars and pedestrians. Finally, I would like to stress the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure a coherent walking and cycling network. It is those who have the key, and the municipalities have to be more accountable than today. Clearer national guidelines are needed. The Christian People's Party is proposing this. We suggest that we look at the legislation within the planning and building law, and whether it will help to improve the development of the bicycle road network. The Christian People's Party also proposes, together with the Left, to introduce the municipalities that can show good results. We therefore propose the establishment of a State aid scheme for municipalities and counties, following the model of the State reward scheme for public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1115	Is it possible that the representative will make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1118	Of course I will. I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has alone, and the proposals that we have with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1125	The representative Jan Sahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1128	Our country, with four changing seasons, is great in many ways, and up through time human beings have found new ways to get along, in spite of weather and wind, into fjords and valleys and over mountains and in the streets. The bike made a lot of noise when he arrived, but it has continued to be a favorite vehicle, even though it is the motorized vehicles that are the most used. With that landscape, the distances and the seasons we have in Norway, bicycles cannot be the most used means of origin. However, the potential is great because even more than now they are leaning on the bike when they are going to work or at football training, instead of sitting in the car. It is about facilitating it, and it is precisely this with how to better facilitate cyclists in cities and towns, which is the theme of the proposal for a representative that we are debating here this evening. A tree or a plant can rot on roots, and fortunately we can't humanize it. But if we sit long enough, it may seem as if we rot there, either in the office chair, in the sofa or in the car seat. Most of us are simply too much, and that's not good for us. Therefore, it is good to see that in a heavily crowded residential area, there are many more people who walk and cycle to everyday places where walking and cycling roads are built. And the more people who walk and cycle instead of running, your less greenhouse gas emissions will be, and your safer traffic will be. We in the Center Party and in the other government parties are pleased that the majority in the Committee joins our goal that state and municipality should be more involved in walking and cycling paths and in other areas. improved training in traffic rules for cyclists. We are well in the process of planning a new national transport plan, and we are in favour of this plan holding its own bike strategy with clear measures. We want to signal that we want to take the ideas from the representative proposal in the work on the new national transport plan, and to make sure that the strategy is not just empty words, but followed by concrete action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1139	Bicycle as a means of arrival is and has been a range of bets for the Left. Former Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm started work on establishing a national cycle strategy already in 2002, a national cycle strategy to be included in the work on the National Transport Plan. In May 2007, that cycle strategy was rolled, but the previous thorough cycle strategy of the Bondevik II Government is still being referred to. National bicycle strategy is to the extent a good basis document for NTP, but it is not directly leading. In addition, many of the measures requested for bicycles do not belong to the NTP. Many have discussed the excellence of the development of bicycle paths. This applies in particular to the environmental perspective, but also to the health perspective. As the rapporteur said, the Government of St.meld proposes. No 34 for 2006-2007, Norwegian climate policy, a 10 pst national bicycle share target. So far, the state Road Service has been working towards an objective of increasing the bicycle share to 8 pst. Despite these political desires, we have not seen any positive developments in cycling betting in Norway. The bicycle share is low, 5 pst., and although the number of cycles increases, the other means of transport increase more, especially the car. Thus, the proportion remains at a low level and well below our neighbouring country - Sweden with 12 pst. and Denmark with 17 pst. These are the measures that are now missing, not investigations and talks. The national cycle strategy contains several proposals for actions that can be undertaken to increase the share of bicycles in Norway, but it requires an overall cross-sectoral effort where several ministries have to be responsible. I want to praise the Christian People's Party for this representative proposal, and the Left supports most of the Christian People's Party's proposals in the vote, but it is such that the concrete follow-up of plans and strategies takes place through appropriations for the annual budgets, and here I do not see that the Christian People's Party is following up. In this respect, I would like to refer to the 2008 alternative state budget of the Left, where the Left proposed 50 million. kr more to bet on walking and cycling routes in addition to the Government's proposals. This is now being followed up in the revised national budget by proposing to increase the commitment to road safety measures and walking and cycling routes by 40 million. kr. I hope the parties who have spoken here today about the importance of better organisation for cyclists will follow up and support the Left's proposals in the context of the revision tomorrow. Every spring we see in every media the Minister of Transport on bicycles in connection with the ‘Cycle to the job’ action, and the promises of a bicycle bet are solved. That's very good, and the left has consequently great expectations for next year's budget. Until now, the Government is firmly committed to the objectives of the action programme, even with Hallgeir H. Langeland and SV in a majority government. According to the grossing-up rate for the financial year 2008, the follow-up rate after three years in government in the number of kilometres of road for walking and cycling is only 48 pst. This is in stark contrast to the promises made in the Soria Moria declaration to increase road and cycle investment and that several working trips, especially in cities, are to be made on bicycles. It is also in stark contrast to the current Prime Minister, who went high on the field in the election campaign, who is now being produced as a bicycle enthusiast and is still depicted in the media - with bicycles.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1157	It is in Document No. 8:121 proposed the submission of a separate action plan for bicycles and proposals for support schemes and codes for running fees. It is important to facilitate increased use of bicycles, not least in cities and agglomerations. This could contribute to the reduction of the use of cars and thus also to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and it could have a positive health impact on the individual, i.e. a win-win situation. I would point out that the proposal for a representative No. 121 on better organisation for cyclists in cities and agglomerations addresses several important problem settings and points to good proposals to improve accessibility and road safety for sick people. It's e.g. clearly precludes the emergence and security of the searchlists that they today have to use to a large extent the same lanes as cars. The potential for more cycling is greatest in cities and agglomerations, and it is greatest in the short journeys that are currently being made by car. Today almost half of all travel is shorter than 5 km, and half of these are carried out by car. The same applies to journeys less than 1 km. In a 2002 report, the Transport Economic Institute has estimated that there is a potential to transfer one third of these cars to cycling, and this alone will increase cycling by 35 pst. I would like to point out that this government has as its goal the most possible choice of bicycles as a means of delivery, especially from and to work. So we want to make things easier for people who are walking and who are sick. In 2008, a total of 590 million will be used. NOK in walking and cycling roads, including 250 million. Tolls. This is an increase of 208 million. kr - or 90 pst. - in relation to 2007. The increase in government funds is 80 million. NOK 34 pst. In addition, the development of pedestrian and bicycle roads as part of new installations on the road network is funded by ordinary national roadside licences and in some cases by tolls. The plan clarification for walking and cycling measures in cities and agglomerations is a challenge. Following the initiative of the Ministry of Transport, last year there was a meeting with the Municipality of Oslo. On the basis of the meeting, a group of representatives of the Municipality of Oslo, the State Road Administration and the Ministry of Transport have been set up to follow-up planning and to ensure that projects are ready for development when the money comes. As the majority of the Committee points out, during the year the Government will present its National Transport Plan for 2010-2019. Here, measures to increase the use of bicycles will be an important area that will be widely discussed. So I think, like the majority, that it would be a good idea to use a national transport plan and not to put forward a separate action plan. I have noticed that the majority have asked for a national transport plan to have its own bicycle strategy with clear measures. I have noted the proposals in the draft representative and would like to take them with me in the further work. The representative Borghild Tenden lifted his bicycle strategy in his contribution to the previous government. I agree with the trend that the bike strategy is good, but it is even better that there was a government shift, so that the strategy is followed up with money. And yes, it's right that the Council of State takes up the bike about the spring and bikes to and from work as often as the Council of State can. And that's actually quite often. After I moved to Oslo, I actually used the bike more than I did at home. Of course, I have a half-hour cycle here, including an extra round to get a little more movement, while I often have to run several hours by car to get to work. I see, as an active cyclist in Oslo, that this city, like several other cities, needs multiple cycle roads. That is precisely why we have set up a working group to plan and coordinate this effort with the Municipality of Oslo. There are several people here who have to do a job to get us started on this important work. The proposals that lie here, in a positive sense, should include us in the further work. In the coming year, we will present a national transport plan, which will of course be discussed in depth by the Stortinget, which will lay down the concrete strategies for increasing cycling throughout the country, but in this context mainly in cities and towns.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1183	It's going to be a string shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1186	I would like to thank the Minister for the positive reception of the draft representative. I think it's a pleasure that we're together to think about facilitating more cycling, not only in cities and cities, but also in District Norway. The Committee has been stopped on several occasions when we have been travelling by bus, including in District Norway, by people with baby carriages and children walking along the road, especially on school roads. There is a strong need for walking and cycling routes. The purpose of the proposal for a representative was, therefore, to delay the mood of an action plan for cycling, because in the case of a bicycle strategy introduced into the NTP, it is problematic to get what goes on in the cross-sectoral, i.e. what goes on in the case of several departments. I would like to ask the Minister about the possibility of getting an action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1197	Like the representative Sahl, I also found it very positive that there is a broad consensus that we should bet on the organisation of cyclists. I think there's something people in this country actually want. We see, too, that more and more people take the bicycle and, to the extent that it is put in place to make it safe. So that's obviously important. It was called school grounds, and then I have to mention something that I didn't say in my post, namely that we have a survey of the costs when it comes to the provision of walking and cycling roads in a radius of 2 km around all the country's schools. We're waiting for that to happen. I stand by what has been the main tone of the setting, namely that we should take foot-and-mouth roads into the national transport plan. We shall do so in good and broad cooperation and discuss how it will be done, so that we can have a good follow-up in the further work on the budget for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1206	I would first like to thank the Council of State for being an avid cyclist. It's very important to go ahead with a good example. So to the question, how can the Council of State explain that the follow-up percentage is only 48 p.m., after three years in government? I was actually surprised that it was so low. How would she explain that? And what does she intend to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1213	The explanation of the follow-up rate - which unfortunately is also low on some other so-called bag posts - is, of course, what we have seen in budgetary speeches on some of the projects being launched. They're partially initiated by the previous government, and some of the current government. In order to achieve rational progress on them, which has been an important point for this government, there is no way to follow up all the other good measures. But that's not the only explanation. It's also so that it's e.g. in Oslo has been a desire to add more projects, and then one has not had projects that have been ready to start. In order to avoid being the case in the 2009 budget, a year ago a working group was set up from the state to deal with the municipality, so that we could have projects ready when we can follow up with money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1220	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1225	The proposal by the Christian People's Party for better organisation of cyclists in cities and towns is an important proposal, which I believe we should take into account in the revision of the national transport plan and the revised cycling strategy that lies there. It's going to work now, and it's going to be adopted next spring. I think it is important to see the transport modes in context when we are going to organise and plan for a transport system that is efficient and ensures road safety and the environment, including transport and road cycling. In the plan of the departments, there is a proposal for a separate strategy for the distribution of modes of transport, which should be organised in such a way as to make collective cycling and walking a real alternative. The Contracting Party has interpreted this in such a way that it considers in its observations on the case ‘a warning against assigning the bicycle as a means of transport a role it will not be able to fill’. They're pointing at ‘the ability of a bicycle to act as an excellent complement to other means of transport, particularly in cities and agglomerations, but in no way can the large groups of travellers act as an appropriate alternative to motorised transport’. That is not what the House or the proposers have thought, I believe, but I do not know what the Progress Party has meant by its comment. We in the Workers' Party believe it is very important to have a national bike strategy of our own, not only to increase the commitment to the development of bicycle routes for both cycling and cycling, but also to increase road safety and improve the accessibility of walking and cycling. It is not least important in view of the objective of that 80 pst. children and young people must go or cycle to and from school. The NTP proposal points to the need for more people to ride in cities, and several factors are important, including: the difference in travel time between car and bicycle is small, the level of car parking fees, collective share, expansion patterns, population composition and, last but not least, weather and topography. The difference in travel time shall be minimised if it can be cycled on a continuous cycle path with a smooth flow. Measures that should therefore be included in such a strategy may include, inter alia: be: building separate walking and cycling routes, and, in the long term, when they are being built, prohibiting cycling on the pavement and on the pedestrian streets and reserving them to continue to make demands for the continuous development of the bicycle routes, not as we see in many places today, that the bicycle routes are alternately built on one side of the road, with dangerous crossings on the road which result in clarifying and operating training in rules on how to deal with drivers and cyclists in order to get more people to choose bicycles and times where possible and arranged for it, instead of using a car; So today we have approx. 5 pst. bicycle fraction. Other EU countries have up to 30 p.m., so we have something to go after. Such a bicycle strategy with concrete actions and targeted efforts is therefore an important basis for reaching the first milestone, which is 10 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1256	I rode as fast as I could to reach this debate. It was almost as if life were going on for a while, but I came out. I would like to begin by commending the proposers for submitting this proposal, also because the feedback that both the Council of State and I receive as ‘Cycle to the job’ ambassadors is that cycling is often forgotten in the debate on transport. For example, when we discuss the environment and climate, we talk about public transport very often, but not cycling. This is also an important component of environmental and climate policy. After all, if we are to take the big picture, three out of four Nordics are concerned that climate change will have serious consequences for life on Earth. Over 80 pst. are anxious that climate change will have a serious impact on the lives of its descendants. It shows that most people are concerned about what's happening to our Earth -- fortunately. People are also quite aware that we who live today have a responsibility for future generations. Nevertheless, it is often difficult to make the right choices in everyday life, often under pressure. It is of course the responsibility of the politicians to take the great steps that can save our planet from congestion and collapse, but at the same time we know that each of us can contribute to great changes through small changes in everyday life. It means something about children getting to know the joy of using their own bodies, experiencing nature and taking responsibility for getting around, instead of being run all the time. The habits we get as small, lay the foundation for us later, and so conscious parents are everyday heroes in many ways. A quarter of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions come from the transport sector and are strongly increasing. Until 2020, emissions will increase by 40 pst. If we don't do anything, and we just can't stand and look at it. Several have pointed out that a very small proportion of trips in Norway are by bicycle. 5 pst. That's what I'm saying. I think the number is 4 pst. -that there has been a decline. In the 10 largest municipalities in Norway, the proportion of bicycles fell in any case. The potential for increased bicycle share is high. Today almost half of all travel is shorter than 5 km, and half of these are done by car. 30 pst. Of the journeys between 400 and 700 meters are by car, so there is a lot we can do. Some of the recordings have come here today in the proposal for a representative; other proposals are from the Cyclalist National Association. This applies to VAT rates, to work to eliminate benefits for employers who provide their employees with free parking and to road packages for stretching extensions that should be imposed to ensure bicycle traffic. We can also do a great deal to ensure that, as has been pointed out, bicycle traffic can be given priority either in front of or in line with cars on public roads, on street grounds and in the crossroads, and that, among other things, we can do so. have to facilitate comments, so that you actually know where to ride and where you have the right to ride.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1273	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3949]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1289	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1298	In Document No: 8:99 a proposal for a strategy for upgrading and expanding hydropower plants is promoted. At first I think there's reason to stress that this is a relationship that already has a lot of attention. The Committee's examination of the proposal also gives a consensus committee the desire to make even better use of hydroelectric power stations than is the case today. The potential for upgrading and extension of existing hydropower plants is about 11 TWh, according to NVE figures. These are projects that are likely to also involve small environmental conflicts and can contribute to a better exploitation and necessary renewal of existing hydropower capacity, which play a very important role in today's power system - not least in view of the regularity of hydropower compared to other renewable energy sources. I think there is reason to stress the importance of a co-ordinated committee being very positive about exploiting the hydropower potential of existing hydropower plants. This means that this work will have a strong focus in the future. The government, through the NVE, has launched work to provide up-to-date information on the actual technico-economic potential. This information will be essential for further consideration and possible assessment, inter alia: by possible measures to trigger investment so as to exploit the potential. The challenge is primarily aimed at finding good incentives for triggering investments. It is a fact, and perhaps a paradox, that after 1991, when the discovery obligation was removed, an approximate investment dryer was created as a result of the market adaptation that followed. The substitute supply obligation, together with the market, has not sufficiently motivated the willingness to invest. The Government has therefore provided in the revised national budget for 2008 for several improvements in taxation that aim to motivate investment decisions. The lower limit of 5500 kVA for the payment of rent taxes on land will be reintroduced into the State budget for 2009, including for new power plants. This represents a reversal of the reduction in the lower limit of the State budget for 2008. At the same time, the revised national budget announces a payment scheme for negative rent that will benefit smaller power companies. Overall, this will primarily stimulate the exploitation of the potential for small-scale power plants, which NVE estimates can be around 18 TWh. Furthermore, the Government will extend deductible costs to include operating costs in the construction period. At the same time as the revised national budget, a proposal is now being consulted which will remove tax obstacles to upgrading and expansion of existing power plants. The proposal provides for an exceptional rule for the coordination of negative ground interest rates between power plants defined as new and old respectively after upgrading and extension projects. Overall, this will mean tax incentives for better use of hydropower resources. The contrasts between the minority and the majority in the vote are that the minority will have a separate issue on the strategy for the upgrading and expansion potential. The majority will discuss the matter further, but do not consider that this should be promoted as a matter of its own. I think it's good reason and not least important that a strategy needs to be seen in a wider context. Firstly, a lot of work has already been done to trigger the potential of existing hydropower plants and small-scale power plants. In addition, the Government has announced that it is now working on its own energy and petroleum message. This Communication will address the relevant question of exploiting the hydropower potential. This includes, inter alia: certified in reply to the Committee dated 9 June of this year. The majority therefore consider that the proposal is superfluous. I would therefore strongly recommend voting in favour of the Committee's position, which calls for the proposal to be annexed to the protocol, and for the issue to be re-examined in the energy and petroleum communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1321	Let me start by thanking the proposers for the opportunity to discuss this issue in Stortinget. It's obviously an important matter. The potential for upgrading and expanding existing hydropower plants is in the order of 10 TWh, with a few changes, and perhaps even greater if you really put all the cloths on. This can therefore be done without building new rivers, but only by upgrading infrastructure and in some cases using a little more water in existing facilities. The case rapporteur included the letter that was sent from the Ministry of Finance on 15 May on consultation. Many of the things the government sketches there are good, and this could be a contribution to realizing some more projects in the area of upgrading and expansion. Nevertheless, the Progress Party, together with the proposers, believes that there is a need for a comprehensive plan. Investigations are very good for the government, but what you need, and it writes a joint committee, is an investment decision. The Committee writes: ‘The Committee would further point out that the O/U potential should be sought through concrete investment decisions.’ Then investment decisions are made based on profitability calculations. The tax consolidation introduced by the Government at Christmas seasons for 2008 reduces the profitability of all these projects. EBL claims that the potential was reduced by as much as in the order of 5 TWh. 5 TWh may replace approx. Ten million. tonnes of CO2 emissions, if it is possible to replace coal power produced in Europe. This tax consolidation is a great paradox. This is a bad business policy, because a sheep invests less in the districts, it's a bad district policy, it's a bad energy policy. It involves a concrete transfer of funds from municipalities and county councils to the state, which means that there is also a bad municipal policy. Upgrading and extension of hydropower plants has been treated over a long period of time. Now it's time to see this important area in a whole way. That should be done by presenting a plan. I note that the rapporteur and the majority believe that this will be dealt with thoroughly in the light of the oil and energy messages coming to the autumn. Of course, I'm glad to see that. But you can start with two simple things: one is to remove the tax tightening that this government has introduced, and the other is to make sure that the upgrading and development of large hydropower plants is also included in the green certification system, which we are all waiting for in suspense. I hope that the new oil and energy minister that we will receive tomorrow will take care of it immediately. However, I am promoting the proposal to which we are co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1342	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1345	I think the case rapporteur had a good review of the case and our proposal, and he was so positive to the proposal that I was almost a little surprised that he did not recommend the Right's proposal. I guess it's an expression that the seemingly relatively broad consensus on this. However, incentives and measures taken must also express that will. It does not, in the view of the Right, do what is now proposed and is most likely to be adopted with regard to the rent tax and the risk charge on interest rates. There we've got numbers from EBL that suggest that this inhibits new investments in hydropower by as much as 4-6 TWh. There is, of course, no good action in this regard. I want to mention a few examples. I had the pleasure of being the case rapporteur for the protection plan in the previous period. Then, among other things, we had: Weaving to be assessed. I know it's a controversial project in the Soria Moria Declaration. Nevertheless, I would like to claim from my side that this is Norway's remotest best environmental project. So it's a hydropower project that could give us 1.5 TWh in a nominal and nice way, and give us good returns in the area where it's located. And after what's happened in recent times, I think it might be useful in that area. Another example is Vik i Matre i Kvinnherad. It was actually expanded. It's about a tenth of the tissue, so you got 120 GWh on an investment of 500-600 million. kr. It is a fantastic upgrade to an old plant and should be a school example of how it is possible to extract more energy at existing hydropower plants. We have great obligations under the climate agreement, and ensuring that renewable energy conditions are established is very important. Then we experience that wind power, especially on land, encounters resistance because of landscape consequences. More and more of the parks proposed and explored are being withdrawn. I also think that we should look at the hydropower. It's a little bit ahead of us before we have the seamills in place. In the Right, we believe that a comprehensive strategy for this potential for upgrading and expansion can be an important step towards exploiting more of this outstanding clean and renewable energy in a modern and gentle way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1358	First, I have to be allowed to inform you that the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has made a mistake in some of the comments in the setting available. The Christian People's Party is in line with the rest of the opposition in this matter. This does not, however, affect voting, since the Christian People's Party supports the majority's proposal for a decision. There is reason to believe that through the renewable directive, which is now being treated in the EU, Norway will have obligations requiring significant increases in renewable energy production. A new report prepared by Point Carbon concludes that Norway will have a requirement to increase its renewable share by about 10 %. 14 percentage points up to approx. 76 pst. This will lead to a major need for the development of new renewable energy and energy efficiency in Norway. By 2020, technologies will have to contribute to a large extent. In this context, it is hydropower, wind power and bioenergy. Increased efforts to improve energy efficiency will also make important contributions. Upgrading and expansion projects, so-called O/U projects, linked to existing hydropower plants have a number of positive aspects and are one of the measures that can give the most effect in the short term. Upgrading and expansion involve interference with watercourses already regulated for power generation. It will usually be possible to use existing infrastructure on the website. Projects will often also make it possible to make better use of existing magazines. O/U projects can therefore in sum give rise to new forces with small environmental impacts per year. kWh, thus reducing the pressure on other projects that could have more negative impacts on nature and the environment. Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, has previously estimated the potential for O/U projects to be in the range of 12 TWh per. years. These are projects that have been assessed as feasible - both technically and economically. Most of the projects will involve a combination of upgrading and expansion, and it would be the extension part that ensures the adequate economy of the project. One of the main measures to maximise the O/U potential is to reduce the concessional duration of NVE. The Christian People's Party therefore believes it is good that the Government in the revised national budget for 2008 proposes to strengthen the procedural capacity of the NVE, but the proposed increase will hardly be enough to avoid the queue of projects that have built up. The Christian People's Party, therefore, in its proposal for a revised national budget, has strengthened the concession treatment further. The ability to realise the potential of O/U depends on a number of conditions. The establishment of a single market with Sweden for green certificates and a good transitional regime until such a Norwegian-Swedish certification market could possibly enter into force will be important. Tax conditions will also be of great importance. In this context, I will refer to the Budget-inner. S. No 1 for 2007-2008, where the Government was asked to: ‘Propose a broad assessment of the incentives for increased environmentally friendly deployment of hydropower and other renewable energy in the 2008 Revised National Budget’. The background for this was the fiscal tightening of renewable hydropower proposed by the Government and adopted in the state budget for the current year. Based on a survey carried out by its member companies, the National Association of Energy Enterprises, EBL, has estimated that the tax changes adopted reduce the potential for new investments in hydropower of the order of 4-6 TWh, which others have also been involved in their contributions. The Christian People’s Party is therefore pleased that in the context of the revised national budget for 2008, the Government proposes to reverse the tax consolidation of small-scale power plants in the State budget, by raising the point of entry for land-based interest tax until it was under the Bondevik II Government. It is positive to record that the Government also proposes some other changes to the power plant tax. Like Left, the Christian People's Party notes that the potential for upgrading existing hydroelectric power plants is great. The government should now start work on realising this potential. However, the Christian People's Party does not see the need for an overall strategy for this, and therefore supports the majority's proposal for a decision in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1382	The hydropower has ours and is still the most important source of electricity in our country. Even if we've exploited a lot of the potential we have before water power, there's still a great untapped potential in this area. It is therefore not difficult to agree with the proposals in the proposal - not least because this is about more production of clean energy, and with the backcloth of climate change, it goes without saying that the more renewable energy we can produce, the more fossil energy we can hopefully replace. In other words, more renewable energy is a means of closing down climate change. The upgrading of pipelines and turbines and the deployment of more efficient generators are effective measures that will bring great benefits. The expansion of existing installations can also bring great benefits with small natural interventions. Many point out that there is also a great potential for upgrading the grid. NVE numbers indicate that the annual electrical loss in the power grid is about 8 pst. of the gross output of power. The letter from the Ministry makes it possible for the NVE to start an important task of updating the technical and economic potential for upgrading and extending the sector. Water power is an important part of this. The NVE further cooperates with selected power companies to find concrete projects that are suitable for power execution. And on behalf of the ministry, the NVE also drafts proposals for guidelines for older concessions, and as part of this, it is considered appropriate to combine revisions of the concessions with upgrading and extension of the power plants in question. In the submission to the revised national budget, the Government refers to renewable energy development incentives, including: within the themes mentioned in the proposal for a representative. Changes in land interest rate taxation provide better conditions for small-scale builders and for upgrading existing power plants. The government is also proposing to strengthen the NVE by providing resources for case management, which will make it possible to realise more renewable energy. Some of the upgrade and extension projects do not trigger the concession requirement and can therefore be realized faster. Last year, for example, five major projects of this type, which together constitute approximately 350 GWh, cleared for development. Thus, the government has both taken effective action and adopted offensive targets for the production of renewable energy. The government has simply set itself the goal of increasing the production of renewable energy, together with energy efficiency improvement, by 30 TWh annually from 2001 to 2016. This shows that what we are discussing today is not in contrast with the government's objectives in this area, rather on the contrary. This is a work The Government is very busy. From the Center Party's side, we are delighted with the commitment that is in this room to generate more renewable electricity, and nothing is better than that the opposition is impatient to reach the goals that the Government has seen and that the Government is well on track to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1397	There is no doubt that there is a high potential for both upgrading and expansion of hydropower plants. Much of this potential should also be removed. In the view of the Left, the limit goes to the protective plans adopted and to interventions representing collisions with important natural and environmental interests. We know basically what is needed to trigger this potential. These are good framework conditions. We therefore do not see the need to create this overall strategy that the proposers put forward. I also do not want to join in and prepare the basis for the rematch that some in the Right and the Advance Party seem to want to take when it comes to the protection plans for watercourses, where one sees large expansions in watercourses that have so far been widely agreed upon to be protected. It is clear from a letter from the Department that a worker is working on this issue, and that the NVE is looking at the potential for upgrading and expansion. I would also like to stress that much of the balance of interests that one must have in the context of development and protection has been made in the preparation of the protection plans. Some of the watercourses in which major intervention has been called for, such as Upper Otta and Sauda, have been treated in the Storting for a few years. I believe that we are not in a situation today that indicates that previous protective decisions are being taken. Rather, on the contrary, we are seeing today major new opportunities for the production of renewable energy sources, for example. related to sea mills and other measures, which have been of great interest to recent times. That being said, it is quite obvious that there is a potential that needs to be explored in this area, which is the subject of the proposal we are discussing today. There is a lot to get from both upgrading and expansion, and there is a great potential for small power plants. It is the view of the Left that small-scale development must take place on the basis of state plans. What's the main problem in this area is that the government, despite saying that it has great ambitions and a clearly expressed will, has done the opposite of facilitating this potential. Firstly, one wanted not to have hydropower in a green certificate market, as a negotiator with Sweden about. So this arrangement collapsed, so that one stood without incentive for those who wanted to invest in renewable energy production, which was enough to trigger projects. We have also experienced in the 2008 state budget that it was added to tax incentives in this area, where one says that one has a desire to stimulate more expansion. I have to say that I noticed in the great enthusiasm of the case rapporteur Aasland had, relating to the proposal to reverse the tax arsons that were made. It certainly does not take much to inspire the red-green politicians in energy policy. So if you go one step in the wrong direction, you get really excited if you go almost back to the starting point. It's not the level of ambition we need in energy policy to achieve the goals we've set ourselves. It has also been a fact that NVE’s treatment time in extension cases has been a major problem. Today, people who come and ask for treatment time for a relatively uncomplicated project experience that the NVE says they can't get answers on how long it will take, but it will take many years. We can't have it in an area where one says one will bet, and where it's a great potential to take out. I would also like to point out that in a slightly longer perspective we can imagine a moderate price increase in electricity as we become closer and closer to the Nordic and Northern European markets. This will make many projects interesting. It is therefore important to combine this with a targeted commitment by the authorities and a willingness to facilitate the development of the framework conditions for this potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1414	As for the proposal itself, I think it from several teams has been thoroughly explained both what needs to be done, and what is being done by the Government, so I'm not going to stay very long on it, because there are just repetitions. Of course, I agree with those who say that it is important to get speed on this, but also that you, like, Gunnar Kvassheim was inside, it looks at the need to secure our natural pearls. Then I fully agree that it is important to put in place detailed plans that look at improvements in the context. The Union for the Protection of Nature in Hordaland has, among other things: pointed out what happens when you have a piecewise and divided approach, where the result can be quite different from what you have seen when you've given the permits for development. As far as enthusiasm is concerned, I think it was basically a relatively blatant remark from the committee's chairman, but we're at least excited, we are, because we've got both extra money for the NVE, 100 million. kr more for public transport and NOK 100 million for the Oslo tunnel. We've got a bioenergy strategy, and we've got new energy requirements for construction. Nature and youth celebrated with champagne, so there was at least enthusiasm! I also registered that the Small Forces Association came and distributed cakes to Åslaug Haga. So there's actually a lot that creates enthusiasm in our series. But I just want to take a little visit to the Right, which is now starting to move in terms of hydropower expansion. I would recommend the representative Halleraker to listen to the former Councillor Kristin Krohn Devold, and not to former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch, in this matter. It was a very good chronicle in today's VG of representatives of the Federation of Nature Conservation, WWF, DNT and NJFF, where they pointed out how incredibly important it is to ensure that we have some natural pearls that the next generation can enjoy. I just want to remind you that it is not long since many of us were standing on the lion's tray and received books that just showed some of the valuable things about Norwegian nature, and also how much has been built down. We actually got rid of these books by a little knee in five years named Viktor. He was properly dressed with a blazer and could slide into good right rows. But he was clear to us, and he asked us on behalf of the next generation: save us something! There is something about entrusting some decisions to those who are children and young people today, and to those who are not yet born, and taking into account that they do not actually have the right to vote and to express their opinion. We have a responsibility to them too. I also think it's going to be the top of recklessness when the Progress Party starts to throw itself at this wave under the cover of being busy with the climate. Everyone knows that's just nonsense and rags. I think, frankly, that they can stay too good not to push the kind of subversive arguments in front of them, but rather be honest about what this is all about for them. I also think it might be good to mention that we have an enormous potential for energy saving and energy efficiency improvement in our country. It was said that we would get a petroleum and energy message for the winter. I think it would be good if we could get a survey of the potential for energy efficiency improvement there, something like that. The NVE has been very active in requesting. We don't have at least one huge potential in turning the consumption away from electricity to heating, so we don't waste our finest hydropower on heating our houses by electricity. Someone has pointed out that it is like washing the garage floor with a five-star jacket, and I think that is a good name. I also think it is important to stress that it helps to keep the Norwegians stuck in a power trap, rather than that we can get cheaper heating if we got up a heating market. That's also part of the picture. When we discuss upgrading and expansion of hydropower plants, I think we should also include energy efficiency and energy saving. We should do that in all debates that we have about our consumption. The Nordics are consuming more and more of Earth's resources, and I think that deserves attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1435	The President heard many expressions - such as ‘freckle’ and ‘customs and clothing’ - which are not parliamentary expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1439	The government is very busy generating renewable and environmentally friendly energy. Hydropower is a well-known and mature technology, and most of Norwegian electricity production is based on hydropower. However, there is a large remaining potential of about 35 TWh that is not protected. Of this, about half is a small force. 7 TWh with hydropower projects have either been requested or notified to NVE, and last year the NVE granted permission to expand 1 TWh. It shows the great interest there is in small power, upgrading and expansion, as well as in new hydropower. Upgrading and extension of existing hydropower plants, much of today’s debate is an important element of the nation’s renewable energy potential, and it is a central part of the Government’s work in the field of renewable energy. Better use of existing hydropower stations and warehouses could increase access to renewable energy without excessive natural interference. The expansion of existing warehouses can also contribute to more regulated electricity, which is expected to be needed as wind power and other unregulated production are developed. On behalf of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the NVE conducts a number of studies and projects related to upgrading and expansion. This includes studies on barriers and opportunities, updating the technico-economic potential, the European impact market, and identifying specific projects that could be suitable for driving. Environmental impacts of rapid water change are also included. The NVE also prepares proposals for guidelines for the revision of older concessions. As part of this, the possibility of combining audit with upgrading and expansion is considered. Such peer reviews highlight opportunities and point to areas that authorities should address. The representatives of Halleraker, Kristiansen and Sanner point to tax rules, concession treatment and the common certification market with Sweden as important for the realisation of upgrading and expansion of existing hydropower plants. The revised national budget for 2008 provides a broad review of incentives for the development of renewable energy, including the themes referred to by the representatives. The government is committed to ensuring that the investment decisions of the power companies are not adversely affected by the design of the tax system. Since the submission of the budget for 2008, the Government has carried out a new and thorough review of this issue. This resulted in a proposal from the Government of the revised national budget to raise the entry point of the land interest tax to 5500 kVA. At the same time, consultations were held on proposals that would remove a tax barrier to upgrading and enlargement. With regard to the issue of the risk premium in the interest rate for the calculation of free income, mentioned in the debate here, it is such that the changes in the interest rate tax introduced in the 2008 State budget mean that power companies are now fully collateralised by the deduction of negative land-interest tax positions. Today's real-estate interest rate tax is neutrally designed and thus does not prevent socio-economic profitable expansions. In the revised national budget, the Government has put forward proposals for increased funding to NVEs to strengthen and streamline concession treatment. Together with the strengthening of the NVE budget, which was already within the State budget for 2008, the NVE’s capacity for concessional treatment is increased by 50 pst. during the current year. While the authorities are dealing with framework conditions and investigations, a number of projects are authorised. Next to power lines are hydroelectric applications given highest priority in NVE. This is in line with St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008. In 2007, five major upgrading and expansion projects corresponding to 350 GWh were cleared for development. Measured in terms of force, this represents approximately one third of all permits granted for hydropower in 2007. The Government agrees with the representatives that better use of existing hydropower plants is desirable and important. The Committee's examination of the proposal for a representative shows a broad consensus on this. In the proposal for a representative, the Government is asked to draw up a comprehensive strategy on how to realise the potential for upgrading and expanding hydropower plants. As I have explained, considerable efforts are being made to facilitate the realisation of good upgrading and expansion projects. The government believes it is important to follow-up on an ongoing basis with the instruments at all times. I can't see that there is therefore a need to move on to a separate strategy for upgrading and expansion. However, as indicated by the Minister of Oil and Energy's letter to the Committee of 9 June, upgrading and enlargement will be a theme of the announced Energy Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1469	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1472	I think it's been a good debate. In this way, I think it can be a good basis for finding good results when we are going to deal with the energy and petroleum message at a later stage. I still think there is reason to reflect on a few small things of what has been going on in the debate. I would like to comment that the Progress Party has now given its recognition and its jubilation to green certificates. That's very good. We agree in Stortinget that we should try to solve it. The progress party has, in my opinion, the market as its master and master. It is then a bit strange to admit that the market to those degrees has not functioned in triggering new investments in the power sector. In particular, it becomes important to reflect on what the Progress Party actually says, when they want to include large hydroelectric power plants in the green certificate system, while at the same time they have now made a proposal that is quite so extensive in terms of new, large hydroelectric power plants. I'm just saying this as a parentheses, because I think it's absolutely good reason to reflect a little bit on it. At the same time, it might be interesting to hear the representative Halleraker say how far the Right is willing to go in order to respond to what has actually been announced by the Progress Party and which they have proposed in this Chamber, as regards the relaunch of large, new hydroelectric power plants in Norway. The right is very good at pointing the web as the solution to much of the power situation in Norway when there are energy debates in this room. So finally, it was said by the representative of Kvassheim that it does not take much to please the red-green in terms of energy, and indicates that the tax system was almost put in reverse when we promoted the revised national budget. No, we're getting further. The tax system, as it has now been set up, will only stimulate small and medium-sized companies to invest in small power. And that's where the greatest potential lies. Therefore, what has now been proposed in the revised national budget is an important step in the right direction to get more of the hydropower potential out of it. I think that's the basis for noticing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1483	This has been a constructive debate which has shown that we want to move in the same direction. But it must be allowed to comment on a few of the posts, and first of all, the post of the representative Kvassheim from the left. When you hear the Left in this room, there's no way how important it is to get new energy and renewable energy, and that the government has to figure out to get to this quickly. But when one comes to the individual projects, the Left Party stands in the first row to fight against the projects that are going to give this renewable energy, whether it's small power plants around our country, line networks or windmills. Even forest roads that allow us to access more bioenergy are, however, when it comes to the individual project. I think it is high time that the representative Kvassheim admitted that the Left's policy in these individual projects would not lead to more renewable energy, but would lead to less renewable energy production. That might be a good nature protection policy. At least it's not good environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1490	I saw the need to speak after Terje Aasland's representative made his statement, because here it is presented as if the Progress Party has a rhetoric based on the fact that the State is not going to participate in the development of business and value creation in Norway. It's not like that. The market is able to solve very many of the challenges in Norway. In the case of the power situation, it is the State that owns a large part of the power. What is not owned by the state is owned by other public actors. The state is also responsible for distributing the power to the actors who use it. So it's like we've come into a situation where we import significant amounts of force much of the year. It's coal power from Europe. It's not a situation we can be familiar with. In the future, export of hydropower will be an important source of income for Norway. It will also be an important contributor to Norwegian industry, for which the Workers' Party has recently become less and less concerned, and concerned. I have noted that. This case is not about the development of new large hydropower plants. It's obvious that it has to be considered very carefully. There's a lot of natural interference. This is about upgrading and expansion, which in many cases represents a much less natural intervention than the construction of large wind farms around, and should and must be included in a green certification scheme, not just because the interventions are getting less with upgrading and expansion, but because in this way you get many more kilowatt-hours for each krone you use.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1501	I received a very specific call from representative Terje Aasland about how far the Right is willing to go in the direction of the Progress Party's position on the issue of expanding large watercourses. To that end, we could at first imagine agreeing to a strategy that we have just proposed here today. It could be an important contribution to understanding what lies within the majority’s potential. That's still possible. I suspect that Aasland also had Kåre Willoch's statements and chronicles in mind, which have been mentioned from this pulpit earlier this evening. Kåre Willoch is, in my opinion, a wise man. He points out that we have a great responsibility towards our climate commitments. He also points out that since the first protection plans were dealt with and adopted in this house, we have had a significant increase in efficiency and a technology development in hydropower development that is quite unique. I referred specifically to a plant that was completed last year, which is a good example of that. It even cleans up old ugly pipelines and gets stuff in a tunnel with modern tunnel technology, removes large, ugly concrete installations and instead builds the power station into mountains, rebuilds turbines, etc. This is done within sound investment frameworks where there is still a good economy again for valuable energy for the community. I'm not so afraid of what I understand that Aasland refers to. Rather, I would refer to the historical recognition that has always been in large hydroelectric installations in this room. There have been completely different parties that have cooperated to get good solutions in hydropower development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1510	There was a pressure and an involvement in the contributions of the Centre's energy policy spokesperson, which meant that it could almost recall a job application. It's possible it wasn't. He's wrong, Agent Sande, when he says the Left votes against all projects. Our participation in the Bondevik II government showed that it was possible to combine a more offensive policy in this area with a good protection policy. The Bondevik II Government adopted a protective plan for 50 watercourses. At the same time, there were changes in the rules that made it easier for those who are going to build out small power plants. They were in favour of tax relief that made it easier for them to build up small power. And this works. During the Bondevik II administration, larger hydropower expansions were authorised than in the previous two periods under the control of the Workers' Party. So the Left in Government means a combination of stimulating good energy projects and having offensive protection policies. I would recommend the central party representative to study further this possibility of focusing on energy policy and good environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1517	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3949]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1535	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3950]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1553	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3950]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1571	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3950]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1589	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3950]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1608	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3950]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1626	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3950]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1644	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3951]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1662	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3951]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1680	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3951]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1698	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3951]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1716	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3951]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1734	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3951]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1752	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3952]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1770	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3952]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1788	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3952]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1807	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3952]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1825	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3952]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1843	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3952]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1861	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3953]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1879	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3953]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1897	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3953]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1919	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3953]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1927	The increase shall now be added to the case No. One-three-three. Since the President has taken part in the debate earlier today, the President will ask for the approval of the Stortingen to depart from the fourth paragraph of Paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure, so that the President may chair the meeting. I see that the wave is not directly taken for it, but at least it has been adopted. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1953	In the course of the debate, 11 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party 8 and 9, by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 10, by Jan Petersen on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 11, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left and Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e1983	Proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size is linked to the future strength structure of the defence as described in the Proposition Table 6.6, with the exception of the number of HV districts. The Ministry of Defence is authorised to initiate the amendments. It's a goal to build a fourth battalion under the Army. The government is asked to return to a escalating plan for this.» The right has notified that they wish to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2002	Proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the integrated department and defence management system.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The size is linked to the strength structure of the Defense and that a 4th Battalion is built under the Army during the period. The Ministry of Defence shall be empowered to initiate the amendments.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2024	With regard to proposals Nos. 1-7, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, the President will first vote on proposal No. 2, since, in the debate earlier today, it was expressed a desire to do so. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Defence Joint Operation Headquarters and Landsdelskommando Nord-Norway shall be closed. A Joint Defence Operational Headquarters shall be established at Retan, near Bodø.’ The voting boards showed that 51 votes were cast and 37 votes against the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 22.36.48]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2037	I think we have to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2043	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2055	It is then voted on by the other proposals of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2110	The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2113	Christian People's Party, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2118	- and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2131	It'll be over the Roman numerals II, VI, VII and IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2158	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2171	It'll be over the other Roman numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2692	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Giltun, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 2 and 3, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left In the course of the debate, proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is advised to facilitate the development of educational material with a focus on human rights for use by health professionals in the care of demented, mentally retarded and mentally ill.’ The President will propose that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2724	Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government is asked to draw up an action plan to reduce coercive use in the field of mental health protection. The action plan should follow up the mental health follow-up plan and clarify the use of available resources in healthcare. The action plan should explain how, in cooperation with the community health service, individual health undertakings can use methods that have experiencedly reduced the use of coercive measures. Mandatory interaction between specialist and municipal health services should be considered.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2732	We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2737	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e2761	During the debate, Mr Eriksson put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e3720	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the 2009 State Budget, to draw up national guidelines on the quality and quantity of the TT scheme and to propose a financing mechanism to ensure the TT scheme in line with the national guidelines.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e3749	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2-4, from Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party First of all, we are voting on the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e3787	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a stand-alone roadside supervision.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e3820	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Jan Sahl on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 4, from Jan Sahl on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that municipalities are given a clearer legal responsibility for improving the organisation of cyclists, including through specified requirements for continuous cycling routes, and to present this to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e3844	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e3888	During the debate, Mr Lien put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up a comprehensive strategy on how to realise the potential for upgrading and expansion of hydropower plants, and to present it to the Stortinget by the end of 2008.’» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e3915	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government is asked to design and implement a universal design standard for railway stations which also takes account of train operators other than NSB AS’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e3934	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government requests universal access to all by purchasing new trains and by upgrading existing materials through its framework agreement with the NSB and tenders in train traffic’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e3953	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to review all projects within the railway system and to ensure that they meet the universal design requirement’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e3972	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that information addressed to the public is included in the description of physical conditions in Section 9 Obligation for general organisation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e3991	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that information and communication technologies in working life and education are covered by Section 9 Obligation for general organisation.’ [[ICT]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4010	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: «The Government asks the Government to ensure that universal design requirements are incorporated into public tenders.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4029	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure, as soon as possible, that all films and all television broadcasts are texted for hearing-impaired purposes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4048	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that glass surfaces on buildings are marked in the interest of the visually impaired by 1 January 2011.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4067	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the universal design deadline for new buildings from 1 July 2009 will be considered as an exact deadline.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4087	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government requests that the possibility of relying on a disproportionate burden be removed after the deadlines for each category of construction, site, outdoors, transport and ICT have been set and reached. Public-sector measures do not initially have the right to rely on a disproportionate burden.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4106	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government is asking for the assessment of alternative financial instruments and the level of financial support for the universal design of existing buildings/installations and outdoor areas aimed at the public. It is assumed that the aid scheme will not fully finance actions and that payments will not be made until the activities concerned use their own funds for the actions. It is assumed that the aid schemes shall not cover ordinary maintenance or refurbishment costs.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4125	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the universal design deadline for information and communication technologies is set at 1 January 2019.’ [[ICT]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4144	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party, on the proposal of Mr Kenneth Svendsen, from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals so that the time limit for the organisation of existing buildings, installations and outdoor areas etc. for universal design, set to 2025.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4163	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party, on the proposal of Mr Kenneth Svendsen, from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that workplaces for disabled persons are organised on the basis of support schemes funded by NAV.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4182	There is a vote on the proposal of Mr Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norway ratifys the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as soon as possible and Protocol No. 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights concerning Discrimination.’ [[EMK]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4201	There is a vote on the proposal of Mr Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 10 June 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the introduction of one general universal design deadline for existing buildings added to 1 January 2019.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4220	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr André N. Skjelstad, on behalf of the Left, submitted by the meeting of 10 June 2008 of the Odelstinget: ‘The budget requires the Government to facilitate a system of exemptions from normal depreciation rules and to allow expenditure on universal design to be charged directly over the profit and loss account in the same year up to a fixed limit of, for example, 1 million. cents per year.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4239	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr André N. Skjelstad, on behalf of the Left, submitted by the meeting of 10 June 2008 of the Odelstinget: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that the principle of activation is reflected and that public and private undertakings must apply for a derogation if the requirement is to be waived.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4258	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr André N. Skjelstad, on behalf of the Left, submitted by the meeting of 10 June 2008 of the Odelstinget: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the universal design of existing buildings, installations and outdoor areas from 1 January 2020. Existing means of transport shall be universally designed by 1 January 2025.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4277	There will be a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 June 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government to settle a compulsory civil marriage and to return to Stortinget with this.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4297	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Trond Lode on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and himself sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 11 June 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that healthcare professionals who, for reasons of conscience, wish to do so on a case-by-case basis are able to be exempted from carrying out or assisting them in the event of assisted fertilisation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4316	A vote is taken on the proposal of the representative of the Grand Parliament, Olemic Thommess, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 11 June 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose that self-employed persons, regardless of whether additional insurance has been taken, be entitled to: - 100 pst. coverage of care allowance from day 1 [[up to 6 G]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19-2.ana.ud514e4343	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
