ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e24	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a draft representative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e27	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives Carl I. Hagen, Kenneth Svendsen and myself on the law amending the law of 6 July 1957 No. 26 on the coordination of pension and social security benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e32	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e46	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e55	SV is pleased that we are now addressing a change in the Child Protection Act in which we strengthen the rights of lone minor asylum seekers. Norway has been criticized by the United Nations for discriminating against these children. The proposal was promoted several times in the previous period, and there was a majority in favour of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers under the care of child protection at the end of the previous ageing period. SV is pleased that the Government is following up this and the Soria Moria statement. The Committee is very much in agreement to strengthen the rights of these children, and we are together about a great deal. It is children and young people who have come to the country without parents and superiors. There are children with different backgrounds and life experience. But regardless of their background, they are in a vulnerable situation as a result of leaving their family. They need protection, care, security and close follow-up pending treatment of the asylum case and subsequent residence or return. In the 2006 budgetary procedure, it was decided that, from the autumn of 2007, the protection of children should take over the care of lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15 in the period leading up to their residence in a municipality or return. The responsibility for the group over the age of 15 was to be transferred to the protection of children by the non-resident authorities and in the budget for 2008 it was set at 5 million. NOK to start work on the transfer. It was assumed that responsibility for the group of lone minor asylum seekers over 15 years of age was transferred to child protection as soon as practicable in 2009. A new Chapter 5a on care centres for minors is now adopted in the Act on Child Welfare Services of 17 July 1992 No. 100. Responsibility is proposed to the State Regional Child Protection Authority. The Committee stresses that care centres should be special child protection institutions for lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 18 regulated by the Child Protection Act. The measure covers up to now only those under 15 years of age, but all lone minor asylum seekers under 18 years of age are to be offered a residence at a care centre. In order to ensure the legal certainty of children, guards shall be appointed on arrival in Norway. The National Regional Child Protection Authority shall be responsible for the establishment and operation of the care centre. The current provisions for child protection institutions shall apply to the exercise of the rights, supervision, quality requirements and the approval of private and municipal actors. All unaccompanied minor asylum seekers shall enjoy the same rights as other children in Norway without parents or guardians. Single asylum seekers who, in the context of the registration of the asylum application, are considered to be under the age of 18 shall immediately be allowed to stay in a care centre. The children need to be individually assessed in order to meet the individual’s needs for adapted measures. Within six weeks of the child’s arrival at the care centre, the Regional National Child Protection Authority shall take a follow-up decision. The decision shall be a single decision following the rules laid down in the Act on the procedure of administrative proceedings of 10 February 1967 and shall be subject to appeal to the State. Proposals for decisions shall be drawn up in cooperation with the child and the breed. The obligation of professional secrecy and the requirement of a police record for those who are required to perform the service or work for a care centre are proposed as being the same as for the ordinary child protection institutions. The care situation of lone minor asylum seekers over the age of 15 must now be closely monitored pending the transfer of responsibility for this group to the protection of children. If a child does not want to stay at the care centre, the municipal child protection service must assess the decision on the placement according to the provisions of Chapter 4 of the Children’s Protection Act. Lone minor asylum seekers shall be heard in line with other children under the care of child protection. If trafficking in human beings is suspected, care centres must immediately notify both local police and child protection in order to assess the child’s risk situation and the need for action. If children disappear from a reception, investigations and search operations must be carried out immediately. I would also like to stress that the Committee believes that there should be a requirement for a police record for single minor asylum seekers. We ask the Government to consider whether it is possible to introduce a requirement for a police certificate before the work on the new law is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e83	Young people coming to Norway alone as asylum seekers and refugees are definitely a very vulnerable group, which needs very special help and follow-up. We don't know what they have in their luggage of traumatic experiences and impressions. Only being separated from parents and carers is in itself a heavy burden for a young child. These kids need protection and are also very vulnerable to cynical traffickers. Since December 2007, single minor asylum seekers under the age of 15 have received an offer and have been taken care of by the child protection centre of Eidsvoll. From Easter another centre has been established in the Skiptvet in Eastfold. The Odel Sting to be adopted today is a new chapter, Chapter 5(A), care centres for minors, of the Child Welfare Services Act. This implies a statutory responsibility for the protection of children by the State to provide a housing and care service to minors in the form of a stay in a care centre for minors. Until now, the responsibility and quality of the offer made to lone minor asylum seekers in receptions has been very little regulated by law or by rules or regulations. The same applies to the legal certainty of these children during their stay. For several years, there has been strong criticism of the situation of lone minor asylum seekers in state asylum recipients. The fact that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers on reception do not have the same quality of the offer as children in child protection institutions has also been criticised by the Forum of the Convention Group on Children in Foreign Affairs. In the 2005 UN Children’s Committee it was stated in the country report made by Norway that reception provision should be improved both in terms of resources and the competence of employees. They also considered that the offer made to these children should be at the same level as in institutions in the field of child protection. With regard to the 2007 budget, the majority of the Stortinget decided that the child protection authorities should be responsible for minor asylum seekers under 15 years of age and then take responsibility for them under 15 years of age during 2009. The budget for 2008 is set at 5 million. to prepare for the takeover of the oldest children group. The aim of the acquisition of child protection is to provide these children with a housing and care service that takes care of their very special needs, and which is also as good an offer as that given to other kids for whom child protection is the responsibility. We know that the majority of lone young asylum seekers are granted their asylum applications. It is therefore important that these young people receive, as early as possible, an offer that can help prevent psychosocial problems and crime and also contribute to a good growth and housing situation in Norway - or a best return to their home country for the minority who are not allowed to stay. Through the consultation process, there has been a debate on how to transfer children on arrival in Norway to care centres. Is to be done by a single decision, cf. Chapter 4 of the Children’s Act, or shall they be transferred directly to a care centre? The Labour Party agrees with the Ministry that this is a group which is distinct from the situation of other children being protected by child protection. These kids have come to the country without parents. Their history and individual needs are completely unknown. They have no or little knowledge of the language or the country. They have no local connection, and they are all in the country temporarily pending the examination of their asylum application and the decision as to whether to stay in the country or not. Ergo, for the vast majority of these kids, an immediate location in a care centre for minors upon arrival in the country will be the very best. Where individual decisions are to be taken first, young people must wait before receiving an appropriate offer. By an individual decision, municipal child protection services must first use time and resources to examine and assess whether individual children need to be offered and then take decisions. A placement in a care centre, in conjunction with the adoption of a follow-up decision within six weeks of the child’s arrival at the centre, will provide the best care, follow-up and legal certainty for the young. By the law we adopt today, we will take a long step towards securing children who are very vulnerable and vulnerable, good and safe conditions after arriving in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e98	It is good when something finally falls into place, and we can say that concerns this matter. In its last ten years' budget proposals, the Progress Party has proposed that single minor asylum seekers should be under the responsibility of child protection, and now, unfortunately not for all minors yet, and not in that way the Progress Party would have wanted, but this is a significant improvement. I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has worked out a broadly coordinated draft of the Committee. What we find to be the greatest defect in this proposition is that it's not equal to the law in Norway. We are clearly discriminating against the children who come here as single minor asylum seekers. We do not give them a good enough offer, and the law on child protection services applies to children up to 18 years of age, but not to lone minor asylum seekers. This puts these young people at risk, especially when we know that they are not allowed to live in asylum receptions, but can go to family and friends. Last week I attended a seminar in Riga on trafficking in human beings, on behalf of the Nordic Council. The head of the Europol Human Trafficking Department, Steve Harvey, said that the trade that increased most was trafficking in children - trafficking in children. Why? Well, that's because governments all over Europe are now focusing on trafficking women into the sex industry. But children who cross the border are not followed up in the same way. They are often placed in open reception, where they can escape to the person who trades them, or the traders go out to be family, and then no one misses the child. The worst thing about this is that it happens in Norway too. It's been pointed out by the United Nations Children's Committee that we're violating human rights, and we're breaking the Children's Convention. Then it is that I have to ask SV in particular, who, together with the Progress Party, have fought both for the asylum seekers and for the other vulnerable children: do you have a conscience for this? Do you have a conscience to know that children are exposed to trafficking in human beings in Norway? How can you have time to wait until 2009? Maybe it'll be a year, maybe more. How many children will disappear and be sent out to the sex industry and others, before you take the responsibility you have now, seriously and ensure that these children are kept safe as long as they are in Norway, whether they are to be sent out or remain? Last year, nine children disappeared, no one knows where they've gone. Additional eleven have come to terms again, but nevertheless there are nine children for whom no one can prepare. It is, when it comes to the matter, this government's responsibility to ensure that nine children do not disappear from state reception in Norway. The Progress Party proposes to change Section 5A-1 of the Act to say that children are going to care after their age has been determined. The wording of the law is now to be offered. If the child does not wish to do so, it may be present, following a single decision in the field of child protection, together with family or acquaintances who are already in Norway. It's for the same reason that I mentioned earlier, namely trafficking in human beings, that I want to change Section 5A-1. I don't want to accept that we leave children's fate to chance. I decided, when I was in St. Petersburg, that I would do everything in my power to fight the trade of children, and I do now. In St. Petersburg, I was at an orphanage for children who had been trafficked. There were children down to three years. They had been sold by their parents and found running around St. Petersburg on their way to the sex industry in Europe. I have to ask the government parties to make sense and not wait a year or two. The fate of children is not waiting. There's a lot of good else in this proposition. The guards have come into place, and we're on the right track. But I had hoped that we would receive support for the proposal that those between the ages of 15 and 18 should also be in the care centre by the end of August 2008. I hope that the Council of State has heard my contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e121	Would the representative, Mr Woldseth, like to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e124	I would like to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e129	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e132	Lone minor asylum seekers are a highly vulnerable group, with additional need for protection and care. The right considered that this would be best achieved by appropriate receptions of asylum. When the majority of the Stortinget would change it and shift responsibility to child protection, we take note of it at this crossroads and support the proposals the proposition makes. We hope, of course, that a child-restraint that has already been tried and tested has the power to carry out this rather demanding task for such a vulnerable group. In this context, I would also like to encourage when this work goes on, that time and effort are spent on how to set up care centres - it is suggested that there will be more of them - but that there is also a special follow-up of the municipalities that get care centres added to them. Now it's the first thing to do at Eidsvoll. I think that the municipality of Eidsvoll feels a great responsibility, but also as a demanding task. Questions have been raised about the legal certainty of these children. We agree with the Government's proposal for this and believe that legal certainty is well maintained, even though of course we should follow this further. We also agree that there is a requirement for a police record to be filed. We note that this question will be raised in connection with a new law on defence, but I am probably in favour of the rapporteur's view on this and hope that the system can be started before. I don't think there's any reason to go deeper into the individual points. The comments have taken care of what is the Right’s position. We support the Government's proposal and believe it meets the needs of these children within the framework of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e145	Lone minor asylum seekers are a particularly vulnerable group, with special needs. However, they are primarily children and young people who are entitled to protection and care in the same way as Norwegian children and young people. That is why I am very pleased that the responsibility for this group is now to be transferred from foreign agencies to child protection. Unfortunately, at first it only applies to them under 15 years of age. The care situation of lone minor asylum seekers over 15 years of age must be closely monitored pending the transfer of responsibility for this group to the protection of children. I am concerned about both care, legal certainty and training for the single minors aged 15-18 today. Cost calculations by the Ministry of Finance show that the unaccompanied minor asylum seekers will be significantly more resourced by a transfer from the non-resident authorities to the protection of children. The Christian People’s Party therefore made proposals in the context of the 2008 state budget to transfer responsibility for the lone minor asylum seekers over 15 years of age from the foreign authorities to the protection of children from 1 September 2008. We believe that such a transfer is necessary in order to ensure that children are properly cared for, rather than today's solutions, where capacity is detonated and the manning and resource situation at reception is unsustainable. Then to the question of whether a single decision should be taken before the lone minor asylum seeker is placed in a care centre. We have been in doubt on this matter, but have concluded that we support the Government's proposal. However, eight consultation opinions, including the opinion of the NGOU network, express concerns as to whether the best interests of the child are protected by direct placement in the care centre. The Christian People's Party agrees with these hearing bodies that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers have at least as much need as other children for an individual assessment in the form of a single decision. I would therefore like to stress the importance of adopting a single decision under the Children’s Protection Act Chapter 4 within six weeks of the child’s arrival at the care centre and that proposals for decisions are to be drawn up in cooperation with the child and the spouse. A single decision is necessary in order to ensure that single minor asylum seekers have an equivalent level of care to that of other children under the care of child protection. In this context, it is important that the needs of the child and not whether or not the institution is state-owned, which is crucial to the provision of the child. In that context, I will bring out Cocoon Resources Center in Farsund. The Cocoon Centre for Child Protection and Ethnicity has built up a private institution and wants to offer victims of trafficking, single minor asylum seekers, children who are subjected to forced marriage or sexual mutilation, and children who have fled from war and have major traumas. Despite many messages from different teams who want to make use of the offer, they do not have an operating agreement with Buffetat. Children and young people who are victims of trafficking in human beings will receive an offer from Cocoon that meets their individual needs in terms of safety, security and well-being. The children and young people who come to Cocoon could have experienced both war, poverty and distress. Some may have been on the run, perhaps for several years, and they may have experienced care failure and abuse, both physically and mentally. Children and young people who are at risk or victims of coercion and sexual mutilation, violence and sexual assault, trauma and crises will be able to get an organized offer at Cocoon. I hope the Council of State together with Bufetat will review this special institution and get the 20 employees now on leave back to an important job. The situation of single minor asylum seekers is worrying. Verger is currently receiving inadequate training and follow-up, and the good follow-up of single minor asylum seekers is very varied. The guards must, among other things, be responsible for: contribute to the preparation of proposals for follow-up decisions by the single minor, and the Christian People's Party therefore hopes that the Government will soon be able to establish a new employment law that will provide a better protection for lone minor asylum seekers. Finally, proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. This proposal is almost in line with the proposal previously made by the Christian People's Party. When this proposal comes to voting in Odelstinget, the Christian People's Party will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e168	As relatively fresh in this room, I would like to praise all those who have been on for many years to ensure that the children of asylum in Norway have the same dishes as other children. I'm glad to be part of a political plural that's made sure that single minors under the age of 15 now are the responsibility of child protection. I want to align myself with the drivers so that the transfer of those between 15 and 18 years of age, before the end of 2009, will also be as good as possible. Together with us, stakeholder organisations must continue to focus on this and continue to press people and authorities. I think those who have created the slogan "first child, then refugee" have in a good way captured the essence of what this is all about. Many might have said that it has taken so many years to recognize this which should be open - so many political debates and so many changing political pluralities. I choose to put that ball down and find out that we are taking a historically important step today. The challenge is to make sure that the political plurality that is always at stake helps to build on the foundation that we are now laying. The single minor asylum seekers are a group that shouts loudly, has good negotiating cards or runs down Stortinget's doors. Then it will be our duty as elected representatives not to forget them when every year there will be a priority between all good purposes. In future, in order to secure the rights of minor asylum seekers today, it is a matter of continuous prioritisation and work on the content of the offer. As the Council of State, I would like to stress that we need to take into account the special situation and needs of young people. We shall provide a quality offering which shall be as good as that offered to other children by the protection of their children. The creation of a care centre is a big and important step in the right direction, but we know that we're not in the right direction. In many ways, we have now added the decisive frames. In the next few years, we will make sure that their content is good. Today we know that too often it takes too much time from a youth to Norway to age. This means that there is too much tension in the age group that is currently being placed as single minors. We must ensure that care centres live up to their name, including: by ensuring a rapid introduction between the protection of children and young people, and a safer and much faster age setting that relieves those who are not young, thus protecting those who are. Young people need to have a stable relationship with adults who can follow them up. The protection system of the day must be developed further. The concerns of young people who disappear every year from reception in Norway are great, and I hope and believe that care centres represent safer settings for young people, so that the disappearances can be reduced. Too few of those who disappeared are found today. Police, UDI and child protection must make it possible to cooperate in the best possible way to resolve the disappearance issues. I'm pointing to the challenges because we've been neglecting this group of kids for too long so that we can now get on the laurels. At the same time, I would like to stress that the challenges do not overshadow the fact that the legislative changes we are adopting today are historically important, and that I am proud to belong to the political plurality to which this was given.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e186	Yes, it's an important and vulnerable group we're talking about, perhaps among the most vulnerable we're responsible for. There's a lot of consensus about what's to be done today--to honor those who should be honored, I'll come back. I want, when I have the opportunity, to focus on all those who disappear out of this system, and the way that they disappear is taken seriously. I have been contacted by young people who have had contact with children in reception. The child has disappeared, and they have gone to the police and told them that a child has disappeared. There has been an alarm all over the police chamber, until suddenly it has been notified that there was a young person on an asylum reception. Then it's not very important anymore. It says something about the priority of kids in this country, which we can't actually accept. Actually, getting your attitude on this is pretty important. It's not just the horrible things that the party's representative came in on, but sometimes kids panic because they can't stay here anymore and run off. We have e.g. in Oslo found apartments with up to 20 Vietnamese youths living in a very small one-room apartment, because they have run off because they thought they were not allowed to stay. We have many examples that it leads to cruel fates, sail if it's not the worst human traffickers behind them. Another important challenge of initiating this law is to have competence in what these kids should meet. I'm probably also a little bit skeptical to think that gathering everyone in one place is the best solution. It is a challenge back to the Government, and also to build up skills in support of young people with traumatic experiences. A few years ago, when I was at work as a school agency here, we conducted a survey of kids with war experiences in Oslo School, and what problems they had. It was found that problems related to violence and detoxification were almost absent, while concentration problems and problems of association were much greater, and it requires competence. So I would like to boast of SV and SV's case rapporteur that they have done this good job. I actually think SV should have boasted about that. What I'm a little sorry for is that the SV's fractions in other committees dealing with the same group have not had the same stays as the SV's fraction in this area. The fact that we took a decision in the Foreign Affairs Act a few weeks ago, where immigration policy considerations were not just over the best of children - for I can understand that - but that they also put immigration policy considerations ahead of what is child-friendly, which is the interpretation of the Foreign Affairs Act, does not actually make it easier to be young in these receptions. It's not just about those who can disappear because they're exposed to human trafficking, but it's about all those who run away because they don't think they're allowed to stay. I wish that SV had the same impact in the government in these areas that they have had in this area. So I just want to point out that there is a mistake in the comments from the committee. Under point 2.8, which goes on defences and police attestations, the Left shall not be included in the remarks in other paragraphs. The reason is that we're skeptical about believing that a police certificate prevents child abuse. On the front page of the newspapers today, we have one of the worst assault stories we could possibly imagine. This man probably had a police record. There are a lot of people who would have got a police record, but who do horrible things to children. A police record is no certainty, plus that we in the Left believe that when you're not capable of working with children, you have to be judged by it, and not by a slightly awkward relationship with what police statements are. Because a police report stops very little, says very little, and it cannot achieve the goal either. I would like to stress that there is in no way a desire to spend longer on the system around the ages for these kids, because what I think has taken a long time. This needs to be taken forward, because it is an important part of the legal certainty of these kids. Then you'd better find other ways to qualify people than by a rail safety, which is a police record. Then I would like to say in the same way as the Christian People's Party that when the matter comes to Stortinget, we want to vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e205	The President has noticed that there is an error on page 17 under point 2.8, second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e208	A number of individuals, non-governmental organisations, trade unions and political parties have been involved in the situation of children at government asylum receptions for a number of years. They have made an effort to represent these children and have committed themselves to their situation in the political discussion. There have been networks with the Bar Association, Save the Children, the Children's Ombudsman and many more. We have had constructive cooperation with these groups, and I believe that this has helped us to find good solutions. We have not agreed on everything, but then there is also an important law we are going to deal with today. Lone minor asylum seekers are a particularly vulnerable group, many of which have been involved. They need additional protection, care, safety and close follow-up. In transferring care responsibilities for these children to the protection of children, the Government has been particularly concerned about taking into account the special situation and needs of children. The aim is to provide care to lone minor asylum seekers who respond to this need. It shall be of good quality and equivalent quality to the provision provided by the protection of children already living in Norway. The aim is to ensure that their legal certainty is ensured as well as legal certainty for other children. A longer-term objective is for the children who remain in the country to become active, qualified and independent participants in society. Strengthening the provision of these children could help prevent psychosocial problems and crime. The offer shall contribute to a good and safe life situation and shall grow up in Norway, where appropriate the best possible return to the country of origin. The government has chosen to set up special care centres for single minor asylum seekers. The government has also chosen to promote this bill as a new chapter of the Children’s Protection Act. The law shall regulate both the care of lone minor asylum seekers and the care services provided by care centres. The legislative proposal also includes the necessary amendments to other provisions of the Child Protection Act which contribute to ensuring that children’s needs and legal certainty are met as much as possible. The government has submitted a step-by-step transfer. Responsibility for them under 15 years of age has already been transferred, with the aim of transferring responsibility for them between 15 and 18 years of age during 2009. This step-by-step transfer provides an opportunity to gain important experience from the start-up and operation of care centres for them under 15 years before the transfer of responsibility for them over 15 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e224	In 2007, nine children disappeared from reception. We also heard hearings on this matter, that the police are not investigating disappearances from asylum recipients. In the new section of the law, Section 5A, there is still an offer to stay at the care centre. There's nothing to do. Then I would like to ask the Council of State the following question: Who is responsible for those who disappear in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e233	I have noticed that we have received a report that shows that children disappear from reception, and that these are matters that have to a small extent been followed up. We do not have an overview of what has happened to the children who have disappeared from reception. I do not know that this has taken place from the newly started centre at Eidsvoll. I think it is important that we now spend time preventing such events and also following up those that have disappeared. I, together with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, want to ensure that representatives of the police, state and municipal child protection and the foreign authorities put in place a common strategy to prevent such things from happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e240	I would like to ask the Council of State about this with competence building, not only in the area of child protection, but also in view of the fact that some of these can be placed in foster homes. We spoke on a matter earlier today about the recruitment of foster homes. It is a special challenge for a foster home to be able to have competence in dealing with children who may have had tough experiences, who have at least been through tough breaks in their family relationships. What is the real plan of the Council of State to ensure that this build-up of competences takes place, so that we spread that competence to the other units that these children meet, for example. to foster homes, schools and others?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e247	Through the offers we are now building up, we are getting more and more expertise in how to deal with this group. This is a group that we have not sufficiently taken into account at the existing receptions, so at Eidsvoll we are now considering the continuous situation and want to gain experience from this work. This applies not only to the institution but, for example: also in relation to forget, on which the representative was involved in his statement. I see that there is a need to take action to strengthen the protection function. I also fully agree that it is desirable that the work on new protective legislation be completed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e252	The Council of State said in its statement that this is happening step by step. Now one in the first place takes children up to 15 years of age. That's very good, and we agree with that. But then we're a little bit worried that it'll take some time before the next step comes into place. It is right, as the Council of State said, that a person wins competence, but I would point out that one can also gain competence by initiating actions today for this group who is between 15 and 18 years old. Many media headlines have shown that there is a need for immediate action against this group between 15 and 18 years of age. I am very concerned that there will now be cooperation between those responsible under the foreign agencies and those who will now take over the responsibility. Can the Council of States say that immediate action is being taken against this group and that one is working together towards what will happen in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e259	We are fully focused on transferring responsibility for them under 18 in 2009. We want to gain experience from the projects we now have, in order to extend the law to those between 15 and 18 years of age. I am therefore pleased that we have agreed to transfer responsibility for them for less than 15 years, and now we believe that we are acquiring more expertise in how to extend this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e264	I just want to make it clear and confirm from the Council of State that, together with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, she is taking responsibility for the children who might have to disappear in 2008. And: Is it okay that Norway breaks the Children's Convention and human rights for one and a half years, or perhaps until the children between the ages of 15 and 18 are accommodated in a care centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e272	Everything that is the work of the Government is about following the Children's Convention. After all, we've been in the rush to transfer responsibility for those under 15 years of age to Child Protection. There was one thing in the Storting about this, where we agreed with the Left and Christian People's Party and agreed to this. So that the government's policy is aimed at strengthening children's rights, both for them under 15 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e277	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e282	I want to highlight two points that I didn't say anything about in my first post. We in the Committee are quite clear that further efforts must be made to step up efforts to establish a more accurate age setting for lone minor asylum seekers, and that the response time for these tests must be reduced. Clearly, it is unfortunate if there are no children placed in a child care centre. It's absolutely necessary that we get a good age test in place, so that we know that these children are under 15 or under 18. It's a pretty big uncertainty when you sit in a reception waiting for an old age test too, so it's important to provide for this work and get it in place. It's best for everyone. As regards the individual assessment of the individual child, we have also clarified that the care centre is one thing, but these children should, in line with other children, be assessed according to their needs. Other child protection measures may be more targeted, and foster home placements may also be most appropriate for these children. It's very important to clarify, because they're going to have the same legal certainty as other children. As for the representatives of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, who say that these children are going to a care centre from 2008, it would have been very desirable. That's why we've granted $5 million. This year, in order to start planning and put these care centres in place. There is no care centre there on 1 August 2008. Then I wonder how the Progress Party should be able to put this in place in practice, when these care centres are not there. We know that we made an effort last year to get those children under the age of 15 in place by 1 October 2007 - 1 September, it was probably first. It was exposed, because it was practically impossible. What we also know now is that more children are coming to Norway, and now they have had to set up a new care centre for them under the age of 15. I am very pleased with what the Council of State has said, and I am very pleased with what this government is doing. Of course, no children should stay away from reception without anyone investigating this and finding out what it is. They have to be searched. I would also like to thank the Committee for being so much in agreement. We care about this, we all want to get this in place. We now need to get this right in a good way, so that these children have the same legal certainty as other children under child protection in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e297	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e305	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e313	During the debate, two proposals were put forward by Mr S. Woldseth on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to transfer the care authority, as soon as possible and by the end of August 2008, from the non-resident authorities to the protection of children in the case of children between 15 and 18 years of age. ‘... This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e404	For § 5A-1 there is an aberrant proposal, no. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: « § 5A-1 Residence at the care centre State Regional Child Protection Authority shall provide children who have come to the Kingdom and have applied for asylum without parents or others with parental responsibility with a residence in a care centre for minors. The stay shall apply from the transfer of the child from the alienation authority to the regional regional child protection authority until it becomes resident in the municipality or leaves the kingdom. This provision applies to children under the age of 15 when the asylum application is being promoted. For children over 15 years of age, the provision applies from the time the King decides. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e579	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e589	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29-lower.ana.ud1e601	There is no record. This means that the matter's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
