ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e55	The representative of Vigdis Giltun, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e63	On behalf of the representatives Ulf Leirstein, Bård Hoksrud and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on better and simpler company car taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e68	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e71	On behalf of the representatives Torbjørn Andersen, Tord Lien and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a comprehensive plan for CO2 management.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e79	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning sitting - if necessary - continue beyond the regulatory time, at 9 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. - No objection has been raised against the President's proposal, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e97	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Advance Party 20 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Center Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Council of State Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e104	There are 249,000 children in Norwegian kindergartens. There are 619 000 students in primary school, and approximately. 200,000 are given care and care by their municipality. It's miles of municipal roads. It's culture houses and cultural schools, business schools and moving here projects. There are several thousand local people elected in over 400 municipalities and 19 county municipalities. The issue we are dealing with today, the municipal bill, is all about all this and much more. Norway is a diverse country, with varied challenges and with varied municipal structures - from the Utsira island municipality with 209 inhabitants to the metropolitan Oslo with 538 000 inhabitants. The average municipality in Norway has 10,500 inhabitants. The main elements of what we are so proud of in the Norwegian welfare community are the municipalities that operate. Ensuring good funding to meet the diverse structure and challenges faced by municipalities is demanding. Giving room for local priorities is crucial for our democracy. The attitude is that almost a mass of people look at local democracy and the tasks they do locally, as the cornerstone of both our rule of the people and our welfare society. The attitude shows that the job done by municipalities has a broad political upturn, and that there is a great deal of understanding that municipalities need a continued growth in their income to meet increased demands. As the rapporteur-in-Office, I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the importance of giving municipalities freedom of action over the means they are given. Everyone in the Committee outside the Advance Party refers to trust in people locally. The main theme of the 2005 election campaign was well-being, distribution and local economy. This is the third municipal proposition we're dealing with. What's the number? Real growth in the municipal sector has been EUR 20.8 billion in 2008. There's been a conscious bet, with a clear rise in the first year -- a lift Right, Christian People's Party and Left said no to -- and with a subsequent stable development. Growth has resulted in over 24 000 more annual works in the municipal sector. 26,000 more children have had kindergartens. It's been several hours per hour. pupils in primary school, and there have been 11,000 new annual shifts in care. The funds have led to a huge welfare promise. The last two years have shown that municipalities are doing their job, but there are still major challenges. The Committee points out, inter alia: on the major maintenance set-up and the need for better mechanisms to stimulate good municipal maintenance. The main challenge for municipalities is that we serve so differently in Norway. In the areas around Stavanger, Oslo and Bergen, there are many high incomes, partly very high, while domestic people earn very little in proportion. When almost 50 pst. the income of municipalities is tax-based, it is necessary to have a cohesion between municipalities. Tolga in Hedmark, for example, has a tax level of 63,9 p.m. in relation to the average, while the Bærum is at 146,4 pst. in relation to the average for the period 2003-2005. Smoothing is required. This year's municipal bill and our treatment today have taken the distribution policy between municipalities seriously. We're doing something more than just putting more money into a system that has a too poor distribution profile. In this year's treatment, we take action that is leading a policy that balances the differences between municipalities. This is done by reducing the proportion of municipal income that comes from taxes, by making corporate tax state-owned and by strengthening the degree of cohesion between municipalities. With these grips, we take it seriously that regardless of whether you live in a municipality where people earn badly or in a municipality where people earn a lot, you have to have a good local welfare offer. In addition to increasing the degree of cohesion between municipalities, the majority of the Committee considers it positive that we are now addressing the different challenges we face in our country by introducing a growth grant to those municipalities that have a very strong growth rate, with the challenges it presents, and that we are using the income system more actively in district policy. The work on this proposition has provided the basis for a new grant in the 71 district municipalities of South Norway receiving this new grant. This is a big boost for district policy. This year's municipal bill provides the basis for a growth in the free income of municipalities of DKK 3.5-4 billion, and total growth of NOK 7-7.5 billion. This provides an opportunity to continue stepping up local provision, which is absolutely necessary if we are to achieve our objective of better social and geographical distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e121	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e124	Unfortunately, the centre party does not appear to be a champion of local democracy and self-government. On the contrary, the centre party has launched an attack following an attack on the local decision-making authority. The centre party is clearly opposed to local democracy in planning and construction matters. We are looking at this in particular at the new draft Law on Planning and Building. Is the democratic understanding we have seen from the Central Party so far in the period, representative of the political spirit of the Central Party in local politics?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e129	The most important thing to stimulate active local government is to give local politicians economic space to do the job they're going to do, and that we trust that people locally are just betting on local welfare. Therefore, this government has prioritised giving municipalities increased free revenues, without labels. There's a very clear distinction in the hall -- really between the Advance Party and the rest of the parties. While the rest of the parties want the funds to be free, and believe that there are a lot of sensible people around in all local governments, the Progress Party believes that we should earmark the funds here from the house. I think it's a little strange that the representative Thomsen uses this as an attack, when the whole attitude of the Progress Party has shown the opposite of trust, namely distrust, by earmarking for kindergartens - we already do - to schools and care for the elderly. So I think it's a bit of a strange approach when the Progress Party throughout the setting has helped to weaken the space for action of local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e136	The reply from the Party of Advancement illustrates that the central party in government is strangling local democracy in two ways. The first way is the one that the Progress Party here takes up, is to reduce the ability of municipalities to control their own areas. But, on the other hand, the changes in the income system adopted today also represent major restrictions on local selfgovernment. Municipalities have less influence on their own income. As Professor Borge, the country's leading professor of municipal economics, it says: the municipalities are becoming more concerned about looking to the state. This has also been a matter of concern to the Centre Party in the past. If a reader reads the chapter on local economy in the Central Party’s mainstreaming programme, one sees that it is permeated by an idea that the municipalities will not only manage their own income to a greater extent, but that they will also be more able to manage their income. Among other things, the programme states: ‘We will strengthen the sector through more free financial resources, primarily by increasing the proportion of municipalities in the taxpayer.’ How does this agree with the Government’s now downgrading the taxpayer’s significance by evading the objective of 50 p.p.p. of municipal income? come from tax revenue?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e154	In all cases, there are many considerations that need to be weighed against each other. We've seen the numbers in the rise time we're in now, that the distribution of income in Norway is very different. In some areas of the country, you serve very well, for example. in the home district of the representative of Höie. In my home district, Hedmark, the tax level is much lower. We've gone into this thoroughly and we see the bias distribution it's going to be if we don't have a good balance. We see that, for example, One of the inhabitants of Us in Hedmark, which is about 70 p.m. the level of taxation, the provision of services is much lower than, for example, the provision of services. a resident in Stavanger. And we cannot defend that. When we've looked at the realities, look at how this turns out, we've thought it was right to have a greater degree of equalization. Local authorities should be given more free resources and priorities, but they should have about the same opportunities to give local priority to both Os and Stavanger, so that wherever you live in Norway, you should have a good opportunity to get a good service offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e161	In the past, the centre party has been very concerned that one has to resume the maintenance work in Norwegian municipalities. It's about school construction, and it's about churches. It's about having a successful arrangement, an interest-rate compensation scheme, which enabled many municipalities to renovate or renovate their school buildings, build out, take care of their churches. Now a joint committee has said that someone wants this scheme back again. Nevertheless, the government parties hesitate to agree to our announcement of the interest compensation scheme, in this context for 2009. So my question is a direct yes or no question to the representative of the Central Party. Is there going to be a proper rate compensation scheme for school buildings and churches in the 2009 government budget? It would have been very nice with a yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e170	I'm happy to say yes, but the first thing we have to say yes to and rejoice over is, as the municipal bill shows, that maintenance in the municipal sector has increased. But the aftermath is enormous. Especially in school and church buildings, for which both the representative Tørersdal and the representative Schlagsvold Vedum have an involvement, it is a great aftertaste. That is why I think it is right for the Government in the further budgetary work to consider whether to reintroduce an interest-rate compensation scheme, whether it is the most effective way to increase maintenance. But there, as in all other matters, there's a lot of consideration to take, so there's going to be a balance back and forth. That it might be one of the possibilities to increase maintenance next year, I think, but we haven't drawn any final conclusions if that's the most effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e175	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e179	We promised 10,000 new annual works in the care sector, and the new COSTRA figures from the SSB show that the number of annual jobs in care increased by over 11 000 in 2006 and 2007. This means a strengthened offer to older people, to demented people and to people who need daily services. We're in the path -- more than in the path. We promised full babysitting. We're not in target yet, but almost 250,000 children had kindergarten at the end of last year, and almost 400 of the country's municipalities had full coverage. Only in 2007 there were almost 15 000 more places. It is also very positive that the proportion of minority children in kindergartens is increasing. Now over half of all immigrant children under the age of five have a place in kindergarten. We're on track. The care sector and kindergartens are two good examples of good cooperation between the Government and the municipalities in achieving important common decision-making objectives. But the needs and ambitions are great. Therefore, the Government continues its efforts in the municipal sector. This municipal proposal is not like other municipal proposals, as it contains important changes in the income system. And that's what's needed. There are large differences in local government assumptions in order to obtain tax income. In this way, there are also large differences in the local authorities’ assumptions in order to provide a good service to the population. While we want to make the differences smaller, the right-hand side talks primarily about the importance of competition between municipalities, and about the fact that today's tax redistribution is already radical -- too radical. However, municipalities do not compete on equal terms for residents, jobs and income. Suffering from both income and expenditure compensations, we are not redistributing enough. The income differences are too large. With the Government's proposal for changes in the income system, we're doing something about this. We are taking important and proper steps for more distribution - which most municipalities serve - to strengthen district municipalities that have special challenges, and for a more equivalent service provision here in the country. With the Right arrangement for the new income system, however, more than 300 municipalities would lose. These are municipalities that are initially tax-deprived, and that would get even worse out with the Right Model. Right goes the opposite of what the government is doing -- more money to tax-advertising municipalities, less to tax-weakness. The more tax revenue means, the greater the difference! That's why the lot goes in order for the tax revenue to mean even more than today. It's a conscious and wanted policy. And it's a reverse distribution policy and would, for example, be. hit the municipalities that--and now I ask the Right Representatives to listen carefully--Harstad, Lunner, Lower Eiker, Enebakk and Holmestrand, all the municipalities ruled by the Right. What is the message of the Right to their own rapporteurs in these municipalities? What is the reason why the Right does not listen to its own people-elected people, who want more income-dithering, some far more income-dithering than what the Government has proposed? Among other things, our committee has been traveling and visiting Harstad. Ideological differences are good when it comes to distribution policy. We clearly see that in this matter as well. We think more soothing gives more justice, but it's demanding, yes, probably quite impossible, to create an income system that's completely fair. Sense of several important considerations have been taken into account in the new arrangement of Regeringa - I am thinking about the consideration of both municipalities with growth and municipalities with decline in the population, which require their own, grants to district municipalities in South Norway, capital grants, etc. - there is still a need for considerable resources to exercise discretion. The majority of the Committee will pay particular attention to low-tax municipalities in South Norway that are not allowed to participate in the district grant. All parties to the Committee, except the Advance Party, ask the Government to pay extra attention to the situation in these municipalities. This is a recognition that these municipalities, of which several are regional centres, have particular challenges and that there must be an extra focus on the economic situation of these municipalities by the state. Oslo receives its capital grant. It is a recognition that Oslo has special tasks, challenges and expenses related to the fact that this is the country's capital and deciduous largest city. This also offsets some of what Oslo has to contribute to as a result of increased defrosting from 2009. From the outset, Oslo accounts for more than half of the contributions to tax evasion in this country. Many municipalities would probably want even more, but we have to conduct a responsible policy, and not do as the Progress Party, which would give higher interest rates and a powerful click in this way for the municipalities. We are offensive, and we have a responsible arrangement. We have $3.5 to 4 billion in free income. In total income, we're talking about 7-7.5 billion kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e207	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e210	I think the representative Hagebakken should be careful to estimate that the economic policy of the Progress Party would lead to high interest rates and higher costs for municipalities. On the contrary, the calculations SSB has done on our alternative state budget, the exact opposite. It is with this government that the interest rate has increased and thus became an additional burden and cost for Norwegian municipalities. I find it very interesting to record how very high and dark the representative Hagebakken appears on behalf of the Government when he boasts of their commitment to municipal economics and Norwegian municipalities. This was the first election ceremony before the 2005 elections. Stoltenberg promised a dramatic rise on behalf of the municipalities. This is also clearly stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. So it's a clear election promise the government hasn't followed up. How can the representative Hagebakken explain and defend that the government so obviously is now breaking its leading electoral promise to give municipalities a better economy, when we see that it is the true opposite that actually happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e217	Now it's about to act as high and dark as the Progress Party in general does. Firstly, the central bank manager is on my side with regard to the assessment of the economic policy of the Progress Party and how it would affect the level of interest rates and thereby for Norwegian municipalities. It has not been long since I heard the rapporteur in the Hitra municipality saying that the interest rate increase represented by a further 15 million. kr. Then I dare not think about what would be the outcome if the policy of the Progress Party was implemented. And I believe that the shipping of, as I said, many municipalities would want more, this is an offensive arrangement from the Government. There is no government that has ever given municipalities such growth as the Stoltenberg II government during a four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e226	The Chairman of the Committee, Tore Hagebakken, is well aware of the situation in Kommune-Norway. We are now faced with the fait accompli of what is the so-called multi-annual escalation plan of this government for the local government sector. In a comment on this year's presentation, the Center Party's Odd Arild Kviløy, state politicians and former Vice President of the KS, says that it is: «of course, only four billion more to the municipalities will weaken the credibility of the Government». ‘If we end up with four billion, there is no boost for the municipal sector;’ says SV rapporteur Christian Hintze Holm. KS leader Halvdan Skard, party trap with Hagebakken, says that this will involve cut, and it will not be revised, i.e. for 2008, we start 2009 with NOK 2 billion less than what we should have had. When one now sits with the fasit, and the government promised a multi-annual escalation plan for the municipal sector, Tore Hagebakken agrees with his former colleagues that the result has been cut, cut, cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e245	It has not only been cut, cut, cut, but the development of costs, increase in interest rates, pension costs, etc. I've made sure that part of the growth is eaten up, I'm fully aware of that. Nevertheless, we are left with a significant growth in free income. We have to remember that the growth in total revenues that we are operating with for the current four-year period is 8 billion higher than what the Bondevik government stood for in its four-year period. In the case of free income, the difference is 5 billion in our benefit. So it's at least a significant improvement. And we see among other things. in the care sector that we reach our goals quickly, so much money has come along well. But we have ambitions for an even better welfare offer, which is why we are setting a fresh rate now. We also have ambitions about a new four-year period, so this has good prognosis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e252	The Christian People's Party is concerned with good mental health protection. Despite a stepping-up plan for mental health, there are many unsolved tasks. There are unresolved responsibilities between the levels of administration, between the specialist health services and the municipalities, there is a lack of competence, there is a disagreement about the organisation, and we have a piece left before we can say that one has got this in place. The evaluation of the mental health escalation plan does not take place until the next summer. Based on these unexplained circumstances, the Christian People's Party believes that it is necessary to continue a stepping-up plan for mental health, and we believe it is wrong to include these ear-marked funds in the framework now. Does the Workers' Party not see that it may be wise both to complete and extend the escalation plan and to postpone the inclusion of a view of what the evaluation of the summer shows?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e261	Firstly, the Workers' Party, like the Christian People's Party, is very concerned that we should have a good mental health service. We believe that it is a good idea, as new measures come into place, that one should put it into the framework transfer, because it is an important basis for our local democracy. But for us it is even more important to achieve our political goals than to integrate, so I think it is important to look closely at what is the situation before a final decision on how to design it. I look forward to a dialogue with the Christian People's Party on that, but the starting point is inclusion in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e268	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e271	The government parties continue to argue - and this is what we hear in the debate - that after the government's accession in 2005, it has been a historic uplift for municipalities and the local economy. One would like to claim that the income of the municipalities has been increased, not as much as Stoltenberg and others have claimed in the public space, but it is very small if expenditure increases more than income. That is what is happening in the whole country, in the municipality of Norway, where local politicians must give a strong priority to an economically difficult and pressured situation. Then there is little use if the growth in income is large as long as the growth in expenditure is even greater. The government's financial structure plans for next year, adding up to an increase in free income of between DKK 3.5 and 4 billion - substantially below what KS recommends - to meet the costs that municipal politicians out there feel on their bodies. This does not appear to be particularly credible. Prior to the 2005 elections, the government promised a big uplift for the municipalities. That's the true opposite that's happened. If you look at the figures for the municipalities' share of the income in mainland Norway, you'll see that the proportion goes down, from 17.3 p.m. of gross domestic product in 2006 to 16.9 in 2007. The figures are clear - the government has not delivered on its foremost election promise, which was the strengthening of the municipal economy. Then we have also been presented with a new conversion of the income system when we deal with the municipal proposition. The revenue system begins gradually to become relatively resourceful, complex and advanced. Only symmetric income balancing, expenditure balancing, North Norway and Namdal grants, small municipal grants, district grants South Norway, population grants, basic supplements, growth grants, capital grants, discretionary grants, etc. are mentioned. The income system is very complicated. For the 430 municipalities out there, it is not easy to adapt a system from a matrix you set up in the Ministry of Local Affairs to the actual conditions you experience in the individual municipalities. The system has been made more complicated and intrigued as time has passed since the introduction of this income system in the early 1980s. Sometimes you have to stop a little bit and think about it. Is it that the income system is simply not good enough in relation to what you think it should accomplish? Is it possible that the income system is mature for the scrapheugen? Yes, the Progress Party believes. Regardless of whether other criteria and weightings are applied in relation to cost-balancing and new regional policy grants, this system is not going to be good enough. It'll always be winners and losers. It's not necessarily that the winners are the winners, and the losers are the ones who should have been the losers. That is why the Progress Party has taken the consequences. We want to phase out the entire income system and replace it with something new and far, much more fair, namely, unit-price financing, which is a system where you pay the municipalities, the service providers, what it actually costs to provide the service that the Progress Party believes the citizens have a right to. It is not fair and proper that the quality of the service you receive as a citizen in Norway, i.e. basic welfare services provided by municipalities, depends on where you live in Norway. If Olga needs a sick home, it is not fair and fair that if she lives in a rich power community, she will get a very good offer, while, if she lives in a poor low-income municipality, she cannot get a sick home place at all. This is a system that doesn't feel fair. It's clear that we would have accepted that the municipal economy would turn out in relation to, for example, the local economy. Legal certainty and in relation to our access to police resources, and thinking that the local economy should be crucial for health insurance rights - in power stations, you would get better health insurance rights than you would get in a poor low-income municipality - would, of course, not have been right. Some services are fundamental, and it is at least the view of the Progress Party that those services should be ensured in an equally good way in the whole country. You'll never be able to do that, either way, with today's income system. No matter how enraged you try to make it, you'll never achieve it. The only right thing is to create a system where the state directly pays the cost of a nursing home, directly pays the cost of each school place, for child protection - completely basic social services. It is also strange that this government is willing to legislate for the right to kindergarten, but is not willing to do the same in terms of entitlement to hospitalization. It shows that there is a difference in the level of services required and the level of access to which services are to be provided in the whole country. The progress party has taken the consequences. We are once again proposing - I don't expect us to get a majority this time - to introduce price finance to ensure all good services. But we also realize that when we have to operate within today's system, which is not fair, we have to add more money to next year's budget, in order at least to ensure that municipalities can meet the cost increase with a corresponding increase in income. Therefore, unlike the Government, we choose to listen to KS and to the signals coming from quite a country, from Kommune-Norway, and we propose an increase to the municipalities in the 2009 budget at a place between 2 and 3 billion kroner in addition to the government's arrangement. This is probably what needs to be in place to meet increased compensation of employees, interest rates, increased construction costs and, in particular, the maintenance allowance experienced in the municipality of Norway. It is absolutely necessary to put this increase in place, but I regret to see that the Government has failed in its prime election promise from 2005. So I just want to link some quick comments to the setting. First of all, the Progress Party is pleased that the other parties, including the government parties, choose to express that, unfortunately, the proposition did not impose equal treatment on the municipalities of Nord-Troms. That's great. The Progress Party also expects to find a solution to this problem in the context of the next State budget. Then I also want to point out a mistake in the setting. The Progress Party is also behind the proposal on corporate tax, together with the other opposition parties. I'll bring this up with the suggestions we're on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e297	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e303	On 24 April this year, the Progress Party voted to abolish the possibility for municipalities to have property taxes. We know that for 2008 the property tax represents income for Kommune-Norway of NOK 6 billion. In this arrangement for the municipal proposition - and the Progress Party has its own financial policy - they operate with a compensation for this of between 2 and 3 billion kroner. We know that 70 pst. of local government expenditure is related to care, health and schooling. My question is then: Which of these areas does the Progress Party believe that the municipalities will cut when there is a deficit of up to DKK 4 billion in the sector if the Progress Party had managed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e308	Of course, it is not that we believe that it should be cut at all in the basic welfare services, and at least not on the basis of the premises made by the representative Hagebaken. We find that there is no majority in the Storting to wind up property tax laws, and then we relate to it. The day that we get a majority for that in the Storting, and we get to wind up the property tax, of course, we have to compensate for that. We do this best through just a piece of price finance, which I talked about in my post, where the municipalities get paid directly from the state for the costs of operating the basic welfare services, because unlike the Government, we do not accept that there should be a difference between where you live in Norway, on the quality you get of the individual basic welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e313	The amundsen made it an important point that today's income system is "intense" - that's what he used - and that's why we need a new one, we need a price system. I assume that the unit price system also has to be somewhat ingenious, because it can't be that one just sends the bill to the state, and then the state refundes. There must be a system to be developed, and it can also be made irritating, I assume - I expect that he can confirm it. But that's not what I'm going to ask. What I'm going to ask for is specific, goes to something the Progress Party writes in the setting. The Party notes that they ‘have a different municipal political origin from that of the other parties’, i.e.: all the other parties. And then they write: ‘The public shall therefore not take on tasks which individuals, businesses and individuals can do as well or better.’ This is understandable, maybe. We're in the situation that the Progress Party may be in government position after the election, and then it's important that a try to define. Is there, as the Progress Party sees it, some task today that the municipalities are doing, and that they are obviously not going to do, given that others can do it better or do it another way? It's important that you try to be a little concrete and say what you're thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e325	Of course, it is not that the Progress Party has any thoughts about privatising basic welfare services. On that point, I can reassure the representative, Mr Reikvam. But, and that's what we're very clear about, we want to make sure that even private people can provide care for the elderly, can provide school services, can provide a number of the basic welfare services that municipalities today not only finance, but also produce. That's where the difference comes in, because the Progress Party believes that yes, it's a fundamental task for taxpayers and Norwegian society to fund the basic welfare services, but that doesn't necessarily mean that the municipality and state have to produce them. Everyone is entitled to these services, but it may be that private providers can do a better job than the municipality and the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e330	The Progress Party will have a fairer system. They're looking for a piece of price finance. They want to pay what it costs - the state has to pay what it costs. Then my question is: is there a reimbursement scheme, that you can send the bill, or is there a price equal to that of all municipalities in Norway? Is the representative aware that it costs far more for a hospital or school place, for example? in Utsira, where there are 209 people, or that it is e.g. in the North Trøndelag, where there is a high distance between the inhabitants, does having a medical care system cost much more? So my question is, is it equal to the price you want? If the answer is yes, a housing pattern will change altogether. If the answer is no, it's my claim that we'll get an agile system to figure out what this piece price really is going to look like. I'm very excited about the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e335	This, of course, is not the way the representative Tørresdal tries to show it, that this is a very sensible system, and at least not when you compare it with today's income system for Norwegian municipalities. Yeah, that's right, we want a differentiated system in our unit price. That's why we call it "differentiated price" and we have clearly formulated that in our program. Because we take into account that costs are disparately distributed in the whole country, and there will be different cost factors that play into different parts of the country. That is why we also want a differentiated system of the unit price. But it's not necessarily the way this gets really complicated. If you're going to compare it to today's income system, that's what's involved in the direct cost-balancing, which is going to be comparable. What is part of today's income system is far, far more than that, and so there will be far less bureaucracy and a much fairer system of the Progress Party's policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e340	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e343	We are now dealing with the last municipal proposition that applies to the government period of the red-green government. It's going to present another municipal proposition, but of course it's not going to apply under this government, after all the political solstices to judge. But at least it's a time to make up the status and see how evolution has been. With regard to these four years that we can now look back on and into, there is no doubt that one started very well in 2006 with a significant investment in the local economy. No one can take away from this government. Perhaps in the light of the post-war period, one in the government parties would say that one in 2006 took too much Møller’s tran and took too much, because the consequences were obvious that one did not have the opportunity to follow up in the years that followed. As a result, local government expenditure also grew sharply in 2006. The growth of the municipal economy had a good reason to believe that municipal politicians would continue into 2007 and 2008. But it didn't. The consequence is that the municipal sector has now been through two very tight years, with municipalities in 2007 having had a reduction in their free revenues, and one is likely to experience the same in 2008. The 2007 result also shows that for the first time in several years, a result is below the national target of 3 pst. This gives us a clear indication that you have to cut the cost. The second image that's important to include in this is that it can easily create different impressions using different numbers. In particular, the figure is NOK 20,5 billion, which is an attempt to use as a proof that the government has invested something violently in the local government sector, but of course it only shows a part of the picture. What really tells us about a government's willingness to prioritize the local government sector is the sector's total share of its economy. For these amounts, even though the social shock is greater each year, it is the piece of cake that determines whether a sector is a priority higher or lower than other sectors. In this way, the figures tell so far that the income of the local government sector as a percentage of gross domestic product in the two years we know, 2006 and 2007, has been either in line with or below what was the situation in all four years of the Bondevik II government. But here's the decimals. What's really the answer is that the willingness to prioritize the municipal sector's share of the social shock has been the same under the Bondevik II government and the Stoltenberg II government. In that way, there's no difference. It also reflects that, with the exception of 2006, which was an exceptional year, there has been broad political agreement on the overall financial framework for the municipal sector. One now sees that it's approaching election years by some parties breaking out and promising a little bit more than the government, but besides that, there's actually a broad consensus on the overall framework. What is not agreed, and which has really been the main discussion, has concerned itself with the expectations that this government has created, which it has not been possible to meet. You can, for example: take the main content of the press release from the Government on the two-year day of 17 October 2007. Another press release says: ‘A multi-annual escalation plan for economic imbalances was presented in the 2007 municipal proposal and followed up in the 2007 government budget. The Government will ensure that the local government sector is mainly financed through free revenues.’.» I don't think anyone would have thought that when the government talked about a multi-annual escalation plan for the municipal sector, it meant a escalation plan that meant a two-year reduction in the free revenues of the municipalities -- this in a situation where the municipal politicians have experienced that every state council in this government has met them consistently and almost weekly with a breach of promises, of course, and blacked out that these breaches of promises are the municipalities responsible for, because they have got so much money. That's what over these three years has undermined the trust in local democracy, but fortunately it also looks as if it undermines the confidence of the Government. This communicative proposition is also very important because it deals with changes in the income system. The aim of the work that was started when, after pressure from the opposition, a cross-political sample was launched to work for a simpler and more predictable income system. What the Government has presented implies that one has received a significantly more complex income system than one had before. One has launched district grants to the municipalities of South Norway, small municipality grants, regional grants for Namdalen, growth grants and capital grants as new grant elements in the income system. Now more than 300 municipalities in this country receive some kind of special grant after this change in the income system. It is clear that this undermines the full trust in the income system and that more and more municipalities believe that they are being treated unfairly, for example. all major cities in South Norway, which receive neither capital grants nor part of regional grants, such as: Bodø and Tromsø sheep, two strong growth municipalities in the country receiving district grants. The income system currently presented to the Storting is therefore a non-sustainable income system which is not broadly politically anchored. Thus, the Government has failed in total with all the objectives of this income system, with the exception of one point: they have achieved a stronger balancing. But when the government decided that the swimming pools were to be filled up, I don't think anyone perceived it as having half-full swimming pools throughout the country, because that's what's going to happen. One has also proposed abolishing the corporate tax regime. For us who believe that a significant part of the welfare policy in this country is that one also has a value creation that can finance the good social arrangements on which there is a broad consensus, this is a clear attack on future well-being. A future well-being is that one has municipalities that are positively oriented to business, which are positively oriented towards business start-ups and which participate in an international competition to get businesses to Norway. I wonder who the government has listened to when they abolish the corporate tax system. Is it business itself, NHO - that asks the Government to maintain the corporate tax system? They say in their hearing opinion: «Frequently small enterprises in the community that both create jobs and contribute to the well-being of Norwegian communities. When it becomes more indifferent to the local economy if the business community is doing well or not, the local government no longer has any reason to be concerned with industrial policy.’ Or is that the municipalities they've listened to, where the central government of the KS says: «The municipal company tax of the day should be maintained because it is an important tool for municipalities to have the necessary attention to local business development»? Or is it Professor Borge, the country's leading expert on municipal economy, who says that what the government has proposed means that municipalities look up against the state for more money, instead of looking down against their own municipality and business locally, and that this will weaken local value creation? It is quite obvious that the change in the corporate tax system will weaken value creation in the future and mean less social shock for all of us. It is the greatest threat to well-being both locally and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e381	The right proposes changes in the income system that result in the loss of more than 300 municipalities. In contrast to the Workers' Party, Right-wing money is redistributed from tax-weakness to tax-forced municipalities. Right stands for a kind of inverse Robin Hood policy where the Right takes from poor municipalities and gives to rich municipalities. I therefore allow myself to ask the following questions to the representative, Höie: Why does Right money transfer from the taxpayer to the taxpayer municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e388	First, I must ask the Labour Party, which has now made this claim, to document it. No evidence has been provided that the Right’s Alternative Income System implies that 300 municipalities lose compared to the current income system. The truth is that there are 87 municipalities losing with the changes proposed by the Government. But for the inhabitants, it is relatively uninteresting that the Right Party and the Workers' Party count advisers who lose out on changes in the income system, because the inhabitants are people who live in the municipalities. The truth is that more than half of the country's inhabitants live in municipalities that lose on the Government's proposals for changes in income systems. It is the big municipalities that lose, the big municipalities with the big tasks, that take on tasks not least to combat poverty, combat drug problems, because it is these municipalities that take the greatest promise in terms of these challenges. The government's approach to the income system would reduce the ability of these municipalities to make a promise to the poorest in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e394	The gifts of grace are fairly evenly distributed here in the country, and the representative Höie is a representative of it today. If we look at net operating result, in 2001 it was 0.9 pst., in 2002 0.6 pst., in 2003 0.6 pst. and in 2004 at 2.2 pst. - Very bad. What was it in 2006 and 2007, the first years we had the governance? Then it was at 5.5 pst. in 2006 and 2,6 pst. in 2007. There was a clear change, a much, much better financial situation in the municipal sector than in the previous government, and the number of municipalities on the ROBEK list has also fallen at the moment. Why has this happened? Point two: what is the right doing in its option? Well, it's reducing the balance from 60 to 55 pst. It's keeping the corporation tax, and it's having a higher tax rate. What municipalities are the losers, and who is the servant? Well, it's the municipalities of District Norway that lose, and it's the central, big municipalities that serve. Does the Right have one good measure for the district municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e403	Unlike the Center Party, Right believes that many municipalities in District Norway are very good at creating nutritional development and growth locally. There are not least very many industrial municipalities, municipalities that have been good at facilitating industrial development, which are losing out on the government's plans. The contributions of the representative, Mr Vedum, give the impression that it is the Right who revolutionises the income system with its proposal. It's quite the opposite of reality. Our proposal for the income system is largely based on today's income system, with some simplifications, but it is not least a continuation of the local tax revenue option for municipalities. This is because we have an optimistic belief in the future, and not least an optimistic belief in the ability of local politicians themselves to have a positive development locally, while the Central Party stands for a centralist policy in which all the good will come from the state and the local space for action is to be trampled on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e410	There'll be a lot of fat words going around in the hall. Bent Höie started his post that there might not be the big differences between the different parts of this setting, and I agree with Bent Höie that so far. I would probably wish there had been greater differences, that we had seen more clearly what the differences really were. Nor does the right have any suggestions as to what we can expect is the income framework for municipalities next year. One suggests that they will be in the order of magnitude on which the proposals of the Government Parties are based. Besides that, I had not said anything. What I would like to ask him is that the representative, Amundsen, presented - at least in part - to the conversion of the Progress Party and their system. We know that it may happen that the Right Party and the Advance Party will come into some position in cooperation after the 2009 elections. Can we count on the Right to approach the system of the Progress Party in a compromise, in cooperation, or is it a completely unmistakable idea for the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e419	I understand very well that the representative Rikham had wanted there to be greater differences between the Right and Government parties in the framework, because this myth that the government parties have tried to create, that the Right stands for a starvation of the local government sector, must now be dead once and for all, when the Right has stood for the same framework as the Government in the last three constitutions of the local economy, including next year. So I hope that the representative of Reikvam can take this further in the debate, and that we will not hear that kind of statement. There is a broad consensus on the proportion of the social shock to the municipal sector. What is at issue is how this share is to be distributed - whether one on the one hand believes that tax revenue should be kept more locally, or whether all the money should be mainly centralized and distributed. Such a model will essentially mean that municipalities become social clients of the state, where happiness is to demonstrate the greatest possible poverty. In this respect, the Progress Party goes significantly further than the Government. It is a pity, but I see that the Progress Party also agrees that company tax should be kept locally, and that is the broad political consensus on that in the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e426	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e429	Let me first be allowed to pay tribute to the rapporteur for a well-worked job. He has managed to stamp the majority parties on this setting, and he deserves it. He also deserves praise for the post he made today. It was a well-reflected and wise article. The debate has also demonstrated populism in its most extreme form. When we ask the Progress Party what kind of framework they're seeing next year, it says that KS has said NOK 2-3 billion in addition to what the Government's proposal is. Well, that makes sense. And when we ask the Progress Party about what's going on in property taxes, that they have proposed to remove the local authorities' ability to collect property taxes, and that it will mean that they will lose NOK 6-7 billion in income, the Progress Party simply answers that it will finance the state. This shall be compensated by the State. This is populism in its most extreme form. To stand on the platform and just toss out numbers like NOK 2-3 billion plus NOK 6-7 billion, simple and simple, is not the way to run a coherent, sensible and reflective economic policy. Then I would like to refer to the revised budget, which will be dealt with here in Stortinget on Friday. There, 1.3 billion kroner have been added to increased income for municipalities. This means that they retain their increased tax revenue in addition to what was estimated in the budget. This will largely compensate for the increased costs incurred by municipalities in the preparation of wages and other increased costs for which the initial budget estimate had not been well enough. That's good. But then we are in the situation that the cost increase for municipalities is likely to be higher. Wages and salaries are likely to be more expensive than those estimated in the revision and it is therefore important that they be kept under review and reviewed in the context of the 2009 budget. If the municipalities were to get in a situation -- I say if, because we don't know what the income is in 2008, and we don't know exactly what the cost is -- where they get an increase of $1.5 billion in compensation of employees and an increase in pension costs, and that doesn't result in an increase in income beyond what we estimate in the revision, this can cause problems. It is important that we keep an eye on this and are prepared to see if this needs to be compensated in the budget, because, as I said, it would be problematic if we were to get SEK 1.5 billion in expenditure in addition to what is currently in the budget. What's in this setting is a conversion of the income system. Bent Höie used the word revolutionaries. This isn't a revolution, it's pretty small changes. He should be aware of that. There are some adjustments in some areas, but there are important and correct adjustments. One increases the symmetry part from 55 pst. to 60 pst. This means that a re-benefit from those who have high tax incomes to those who have low tax incomes. One, changes something on the district grant -- based on the Sørheim committee's suspension. But if we look at the overall redistribution that is in the Sørheim Committee's position and compare it with the income transfers that are in the municipal sector, this is relatively small and almost marginal changes. But anyway, it's important, because one transfers from the municipalities that have the most, to those that have the least. So one makes some changes to the district grants, but one does not follow up the Sørheim Committee’s position in its ultimate consequence. Nevertheless, there is a relatively small change, because some municipalities in South Norway receive district grants. Then there's also a change in the tax rate, in that part of municipal income that's going to go through taxes. Today, the tax share amounts to approx. 47 pst. I guess there's a 50 pst measure in the past, but what's in this new arrangement is that the tax rate is going to be 45 pst. That's the goal-- a reduction of 2 pst. in relation to the level for 2008. Calling it dramatic or a revolution is a pretty powerful exaggeration. But that's right, because one secures those municipalities that initially have the worst income base. So you don't do anything with the discretion. That's what you should have done. We should have gone in and looked at them, because when we make these adjustments on the income balancing side, it should have had some consequences for the discretionary means. I just want to encourage the Government and all of us in the further work to also consider whether these changes that we are now making should have had some consequences for the discretionary framework, and whether it was right and reasonable to reduce the discretionary means. We could have done that in a reasonable way. So I want to encourage the government to look into whether we have a proper framework for the discretionary means. When we're out visiting statesmen, it's quite obvious that the way they distribute beauties to municipalities is quite static. It's pretty much the same amount every year for the same municipalities. A good part of the discretion is going this way. If that's the case -- and I choose to believe in the statesmen -- these discretionary means should already have been inserted into the income system and distributed through it. So there's a lot of good reasons to see if it's not time to reduce the discretionary powers. In the end, when we talk about municipalities and the municipal sector, we talk about the local economy, and that's fair and fair. I also notice how the entire market language addresses the debate. Here we talk about producers, consumers, etc. This is market language in politics. Clearly, the way we use the language has implications for the political decisions we make. It is not good how the market language takes full hold in the political field. I also record that there is no one in the debate on municipalities and local economies who is discussing and problematizing democracy, the role of the municipality - not as one that is solely to provide welfare services, but that is in a way the pillar, the foundation wall, in our democracy we are talking about. When we know that we're in a situation there just about 60 pst. And I use the word "gudge" to participate in municipal elections, we have a problem. Then we should use that opportunity to discuss how we're going to deal with this, and whether we can do something about this. We're getting a local democracy message where we're going to pick up some, probably little spots. But the fundamental problem with regard to local democracy is what tasks and the role of local government and county council in our democracy. This role depends on what kind of resources they should have, how much of the community's resources they should allocate, and their responsibilities in this allocation process. If we don't realize that, if we make this a market, to a question of distributing a few dollars, and don't see this in a democracy perspective and look at the role the municipalities should have in our democracy, it might be right for us. We've had the report from the power investigation, and it's been clear and clear that we're losing a lot in relation to our people's government, our democracy. I probably wish that when we discuss the local economy and the way in which we distribute public resources, we would also have put it into a democratic perspective and had it with us. Democracy, the rule of the people, has a self-esteem, a value in itself. If we don't realize it, what I'm saying can go wrong is that we're at the next choice, and if we choose then, maybe not have 60 pst., but maybe just 40 pst. digestion. Then we all have a quite comprehensive problem. I sincerely hope that when we are going to discuss the local economy and democracy in the future, this perspective has with us, and does not make this just a matter of market, consumers, users, demanders, etc. It's essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e460	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e463	SV has no counter-parties against lawmaking the right to children's playground. Nor does SV have any counter-parties against lawmaking the right to fruit and vegetables in certain schools. On the other hand, SV has great difficulties in being involved in the legalisation of the right to a sick home place. Isn't this an SV paradox? Or does SV think that enough time and money will be spent on the elderly in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e468	I think Åge Starheim is raising a problem that is a natural continuation of what I ended up with, that goes on democracy, democracy, and rule of the people, and that has to do with legalizing. The report from the power investigation concludes that politicians give up power, among other things. through legal proceedings. SV has participated in giving people rights through the law, to primary school, to secondary school and to kindergarten. Clearly, this is problematic. We're going to be willing to discuss how far we're going in legal proceedings. The longer you go to court, the more you depoliticize. It's a dangerous development. So I'm willing to discuss whether we're going too far towards giving people rights, at the expense of the political decisions. But I defend the right to primary school, to secondary school and to kindergarten. I think it's so essential. But we don't want anyone to have the right to eat oranges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e473	In the previous election campaign, SV believed that poverty could almost be eliminated with a pen stroke. The Soria Moria Declaration promised that poverty would be eliminated. But since then, the number of poor people has just increased. Now housing support is one of the most effective measures to prevent poverty, and the previous government had more measures to improve housing support every year. It has continued to do so in this period, but our proposals have not received a majority. The red-greens didn't want to be part of it. An example is the revised budget of the year, where we added 60 million. kr. When the government parties do not choose to support the Right proposal or to propose their own improvements to housing support, it is tempting to say that the Government does not abolish poverty because it lacks the will to do so - because it cannot be the ability that is lacking, when the money is really there. How will the representative Rikham explain the increase in the number of poor people in Norway? And what is the background to the fact that the government parties do not want to support the Right proposal for improvements in housing support?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e482	When it comes to the number of poor people, I have to admit that I don't have the data and the numbers in front of me. I just have to accept the claim from the representative Holmberg that there has been an increase in the number of poor people. I don't think that's good. Let me underline it: I don't think in any way it's good that the number of poor people is increasing -- if the claim is correct. So over to action: I think we should have come further in some areas. The housing aid is one of the areas in which we will continue to work, with a view to creating a housing aid scheme that covers several areas and is more accurate. I am becoming more and more convinced that housing support is probably the best response to poverty. It's probably some of the things that are most accurate, and that will include the groups that we want to include. So going through the housing support system, finding better and more accurate schemes and expanding the framework, I still think it is important, and at least some of us will be in favour of the 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e490	It's cross-political joy that we're about to reach the goal of full child care coverage, and it's been successful to achieve such a broad political consensus. But we've also been able to incorporate the earmarked funds into 2011 so we're sure it's in place. That's wise. But what the Christian People's Party and the opposition are concerned about is that when you do this, you have to ensure at the same time a government funding system for private kindergartens. We know that if they are not secured, the full babysitting will be relatively short-lived. And if we are to achieve full child-care coverage, we must have a diversity of both municipal and private kindergartens, and they must be able to have the same quality and be able to drive - so that is not the end of full child-care coverage, but the beginning when we incorporate it and ensure it for many years to come. That is why we want a state funding scheme for the private sector in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e497	This is a mistrust of local politicians. It's a little strange that it's going to come from the Christian People's Party, which normally hits its chest and says that they have confidence in the local politicians, and that they want local politicians to distribute the resources. When we include the nursery allowance - the 20 billion kroner that are currently earmarked as earmarked funds - in the framework of the municipalities, I feel a hundred percent sure that the municipal politicians will follow up. They are much closer to the problem, they are the ones who are going to get babysitting in Sandnes or where it may be, and they are the ones who are responsible for this. And I feel like a hundred percent sure they're doing much better than what I can do here in Oslo. So I have full confidence in the local politicians. Get this into the framework grant, and they will allocate resources to municipal and private kindergartens in such a way that they can meet the obligation they have to provide kindergartens for all children. In fact, I have that confidence in the local politicians. I have much more confidence in local politicians than I have in Bjørg Tørresdal in this specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e504	The cord shift is over. The representative Bent Höie gets the floor to bring up suggestions that he forgot to include in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e509	I regret that I forgot to address the proposals that the Right has alone or where we are co-sponsors, which have not already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e514	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e517	The main message of the Christian People's Party in this matter is: the municipalities must have more! For the government has created expectations -- about a better school, about quality in care for the elderly, about local economic space. The list of promises is long. The government is adding up to a growth of between DKK 3.5 and 4 billion in free income for municipalities in 2009. This needs to be considerably increased if local authorities are to be given room to improve the quality of school and care for the elderly. The growth forecasted in the municipal proposition will only be sufficient to maintain operation and to cover increased expenditure related to population development and increased labour and pension costs in municipalities. The Christian People's Party believes that an increase of DKK 1-1.5 billion in free income in addition to the Government's proposals must be made to meet some of the expectations in the municipalities. There are major challenges in mental health protection, despite the escalation plan. Among other things, it is mentioned that many municipalities, especially small municipalities, seem to strive to recruit and retain qualified personnel and ensure a professionally sound offer. There are major unresolved problems arising from grey zones and unexplained responsibilities between administrative levels. Therefore, it is important that municipalities receive professional and practical support from the specialist health service to provide comprehensive and complex services. We need an action plan for people with severe, long-term mental disorders, both in terms of housing, treatment arrangements and the organisation of interventions. Based on these challenges, the Christian People’s Party believes that grants for mental health work should not be included in the community’s framework grant, but should be continued as earmarked grants until the evaluation of the mental health programme is available in the summer of 2009. Both Mental Health Norway and the National Association of Survivors of Psychiatry support the continued designation of the grant. The Government proposes a number of changes in the income system for municipalities. We believe it is a weakness that the cost keys were not reviewed in the context of the proposal for a new income system. It makes sense to look at both the cost side and the income side when making changes. There are different political views about what is a fair income system. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the aim of the changes must be to ensure equivalent welfare services throughout the country. The Christian People's Party supports the continuation of today's District Policy Grant, and that the Namdal municipalities receive the same grants as the Nordland. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party welcomes the introduction of a new district policy grant to municipalities in South Norway. The Christian People's Party is concerned that all municipalities in the action zone are treated equally, and we are concerned that the situation of tax-impaired municipalities in South Norway that do not participate in the new district grant is given special attention. The Christian People's Party will not call the proposed changes a new income system. No, rather, there is a greater degree of distribution of the revenue proposed. Income is moved from tax-rich municipalities to municipalities with lower incomes. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the symmetric income equation is increasing from 55 to 60 pst. in line with the proposal of the Sørheim Committee. This will contribute to the smoothing of undesirable differences in the provision of services. The Christian People's Party wants to maintain today's system of municipal corporation tax. Company taxes can stimulate local economic development. But the scheme has some weaknesses. We should have a system where one sees larger housing and labour market regions in the context, and where several municipalities receive and distribute corporate tax together. The conversions adopted today by the Stortinget have a major impact on many municipalities. This applies in particular to large municipalities, and to tax-rich municipalities. The government is trying to decorate the figures by adding the increase in free income in 2009. I believe in the old word: honesty is the longest. The changes we are making today mean that municipalities that are losing out on the conversion of the income system need to prepare for a slightly tighter economy in 2009. It's about creating realistic expectations. Finally, the big difference in the understanding of an income system is between the Progress Party and the other parties in the Stortinget. The single-price financing could be discussed up and down and down. What I understand is that the Progress Party proposes in its differentiated unit price model, is a system where this unit price is to have 430 different rates, because there are 430 different municipalities in Norway - all of which have different assumptions and thus different costs of providing proper, fair welfare services to their own. I would recommend an income system that leaves that responsibility to the local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e543	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e546	The Christian People's Party supports the government parties at most points in terms of changes in the income system of the municipalities. Both in terms of the tax share of the total income and the symmetric balance, the Christian People's Party and the government parties agree on a stronger distribution profile. And that's very good. In terms of regional policy instruments, too, our parties agree. But at one important point, the Christian People's Party is weakening the distribution profile. This concerns the continuation of municipal corporation tax. Does not the Christian People's Party see that there are large differences in the local authorities' assumptions in order to obtain income from corporate tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e553	The Christian People's Party is concerned that corporate taxes can stimulate local business development and provide an additional stimulus for local politicians who want to facilitate business. It's important. At the same time, the Christian People's Party sees that it is not always entirely accurate. Therefore, we want municipalities with a common living and working environment to receive corporate tax together. One lives in one municipality, but works in the neighbouring municipality. We want the company tax to be returned to the municipalities that are a resident and working community and that it can be distributed locally. It is about stimulating the development of nutrition throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e560	When one listens to the representative Tørresdal today, it seems that she is pleased that she did not get a majority in favour of her position on the income level of municipalities in 2006. It is at least clear that she is satisfied that it was the arrangement of the red-green government that was adopted at the time, for she must have a very strong concern for the finances of the municipalities. But now we're in 2008, and we're going to make a setup for 2009. Then there are two things -- at least -- that amaze me in the politics of the Christian People's Party. One is at counting time, why the Christian People's Party does not see that it is an advantage that the counting time is in July, so that the municipalities have predictability in terms of planning and having good and tidy economic conditions. The second is corporate tax. The Christian People's Party tends to say that they are concerned with distribution and cohesion. However, when it comes to practical reality in the community structure, some of the most important element that helps all municipalities get a more equivalent basis for running a good local welfare offer is removed. How will the representative Tørresdal explain that she wants more uncertainty - by having a counting time on 1 January? And how will she explain the distribution profile of the two measures I have mentioned lead to?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e571	The Christian People's Party sees the advantage of predictability in creating the municipal budgets. We are also aware of that in the setting. We see the advantage of that counting date. The disadvantage is that the municipality of growth loses a lot of money - they don't get paid for the people they need to provide welfare services to. Our solution would be - if we had been able to decide on our own - an early counting date, but with a greater compensation for the growth municipalities. Then it would be ok with an early counting date, for one would give the compensation through a larger growth grant. So that would be a good arrangement. With regard to the redistribution of corporation tax, it is that the Christian People's Party is involved in many aspects of the income system where we redistribute more. But I think one goes too far in the redistribution, because all the changes you're making go beyond the same municipalities. Incentives to industrial development are also important, i.e. both redistribute tax revenue and stimulate economic development. At one point, the Christian People's Party disagrees with the Government, because we want to stimulate local nutrition development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e583	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e586	The left is in line with the Government in terms of growth in the income of the municipal sector for 2009. Although the Left is an opposition party, we will act in a voice and give praise to the Government for the income growth of the municipal sector in recent years. But it's just that the income is just one side of the accounting. The second is the cost. Although income growth under today's government has been at almost NOK 21 billion in the period until now, expenditure growth has been higher. In the municipality of Gjøvik, the municipality of the head of the committee, the councillor estimates that the salary increase in 2008 will be 6,5 p.p. The 2008 government budget included an estimate of 5 pst. The Councillor estimates that the additional cost in relation to the budget will be 10 million. kr. In addition, pension costs, rising borrowing rates, the need for additional loans for development, etc. Expenditure is growing faster than revenue. The left's answer to that is not even more money than the government's promise. On the other hand, we are concerned about improving efficiency. 1 pst. Improving the efficiency of the local government sector can bring a profit of about DKK 1 billion. We must therefore be willing to look at the structure, organisation and production in order to maximise the impact and make the best possible use of Community funds. During today’s government, about all experimental activities and modernisation have stopped. In this way I refer to a great and important attempt in my own state, the Moor and the Romsdal, the unitary attempt. The municipal sector in Norway needs testing. We need modernisation and optimization. In this context, I would like to refer to the Left's proposal to give the municipalities the right to choose to receive all funding from the State as free resources, without any designation. I am fully aware that this is a radical proposal, but it shows that we are taking the municipalities and local politicians seriously. We also want to strengthen the basis for the free income of municipalities by maintaining company taxes and providing a freer local taxpayer. The government is going the other way. So a little bit to the income system. The left is disappointed that the Government has not presented a more complete proposal for a new income system. There is a very half-hearted reform when the cost keys are not included. It is the costs of operating the municipalities that make up the large differences. The cost keys are overripe for revision. Nevertheless, this work is now being postponed until 2011. Nor does the government say anything about the basic grant and the disaggregation grant to the municipalities. These grants are central to the municipal structure. Many suggest that there are many municipalities that want to join together voluntarily, but do not realize it because they lose income. We have to dry to take the structural debate as well. As regards the proposed changes to the income system, the Left Government follows on from part of the proposals. This applies, inter alia, to: the balancing of income. It is necessary to ensure that the required welfare tasks can be carried out on the same basis as possible in the municipalities. Therefore, it is important to increase the balancing of income. The left wants to maintain corporate tax. We believe it is an important tool for municipalities to have the necessary attention to local economic development. In addition, we consider it a contribution to keeping tax revenue at about 50 pst. of the income of municipalities. The left considers that municipal transfers should continue to be used as a regional and district policy instrument, and that in the current situation, it is right to provide such support to more than today to maintain the housing pattern and diversity that characterise our communities. We therefore follow the Government's proposal to add 380 million. kr more in the pot. The left is critical for the continuation of the North Norway grant in its current form, only calculated from the population. In maintaining this, it would have been better for the North Norway grant to take into account both the municipality and the population, such as the southern Norwegian district grant. Then one would rather have adjusted the bets. Then you would have got a more transparent and equal system. It would also become more robust for municipalities that have a decline in population. Furthermore, the left considers that distance and small operating disadvantages should be compensated in adjusted cost keys and higher basic grants to the smallest municipalities. We therefore ask, together with the Right, that the Government introduce a new district grant together with the review of the cost keys for 2011. Finally, I would like to include the proposal from the Left in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e621	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e626	Several of the Left's proposals for changes in the income system would have resulted in the municipalities of North Norway remaining with less money. In particular, the Left opposes the liquidation of municipal corporation tax, and the Left wants the tax's share of the total income to be 50 pst. And not 45 pst, for which the government parties are in favour, would have led to significantly smaller amounts for most municipalities in North Norway. The reason for this is that the municipalities in the north mainly serve the lower share of the tax and the liquidation of municipal corporation tax. How can the Left, who is concerned that people should be able to live and live in District Norway, advocate such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e633	In the left, there is an inherent belief that the individuals living in the different municipalities also play a vital role in their own welfare society. I would like to point out an example, namely the furniture industry on Sunnmowers. It was completely unnatural that what was going to be Norway's largest furniture environment -- they didn't have trees, it was far from the markets -- but there were some people there who had energy and the will to get things, and we see the result of it. The left is very concerned about the need to stimulate its own development and welfare society through it. If that incentive disappears, the municipalities can easily become state branches, and that's the left hand side. We have great faith in the people who live in individual municipalities, and it is important that it is stimulated for its own activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e640	The response for the municipal sector is more efficient, said the representative Kongshaug; the municipalities need to improve. That's quite typical, because that's the way we're all: it's the others that have to be more effective. We're pretty good ourselves and we're working well. But there is obviously a great potential for efficiency in others. And it's well possible that it exists. It is well possible that schools can become more effective, that those working in the care of the elderly can run faster, etc. It's possible. I don't rule it out, but it's a little too simple to say that efficiency is the answer. What made me ask for the floor was that Kongshaug simultaneously used the unitary attempt in More and Romesdal as an example of how this government has stopped efficiency measures. I haven't seen it as an efficiency attempt. I have seen it as an attempt at democracy. It's a little bit important that the left agrees with itself. Is the attempt at unity in More and Romesdal primarily an attempt at efficiency, or is it a attempt at democracy, where a person tries to democratize and improve what is involved in popular rule, democracy, etc. to do? It's a little bit important that the left agrees with itself about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e647	I do not agree on the access to the question. It's not a either-or. In the case of the More and Romesdal districts, it is an important attempt at democracy. It's clear. We want as many decisions as possible where discretion is exercised to be made by elected bodies. That's where I think SV and Left agree. But we must not underestimate that there is an efficiency gain in bringing together different municipalities and county councils, which often carry out parallel tasks, and which most people do not see the difference. This undermines the legitimacy of both the county municipality and the county council. So it's a boat and a boat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e652	The majority also signaled a positive attitude towards the unit members in the setting, but that was not what I was supposed to take a line about. What it has been difficult to get in the position is what the Left really believes in district policy. One thing is that one kind of agrees with the Sørheim committee, but now the government has put forward a proposal. We have written majority comments that have been supported by that proposal, because we mean, among other things. that it is correct that the 71 municipalities in South Norway receive a new regional policy grant and that it should not be a dwindling for the other municipalities that have already had regional policy grants in South Norway. When one reads the position and has followed the debate, it is difficult to know where the Left really is in this landscape. Traditionally, I believe that when it comes to the piece, the Left will support it in the government budget for the autumn, but I want to challenge the representative of Kongshaug on this. Where's the left? Will the Left vote for the proposals outlined by the Government when it comes to the end of the harvest? And: When you want to continue the municipal corporation tax, what does the Left think about the distribution profile on it as bad as it actually is?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e659	I want to repeat what I said in my post. The left considers that municipal transfers should continue to be used as a regional and district policy instrument. This is important because the municipality is often the largest and most important job - also the place of competence - in many district municipalities. So a strong local economy and targeted regional policy instruments through the municipalities are good district policies. So once again at the corporate tax. I cannot understand that the Centre Party will not help to stimulate municipalities to develop their own working lives and jobs. I see that it can have a centralizing effect on the funds, but it's possible to do something about the system and the redistribution. But we must never take away from the municipalities the incentive and the joy it is to create our own jobs and generate our own income, which the corporation tax provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e666	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e670	The government has provided significant funds to the municipalities. The municipalities have responded by implementing a historic lift. I am impressed by everything the municipalities have been given in two years: 24 000 new annual works, 26 000 more children go to kindergarten. There will be new opportunities in 2009, with DKK 7-7.5 billion in increased frames, of the DKK 3.5-4 billion in free income. New figures for the first quarter of 2008 show that growth is continuing this year as well. That's very good. At the same time, 2008 is a demanding year. It's important that the municipalities don't bet on ability. It is important that municipalities take the responsibility they have for using the funds as effectively as possible. The quality municipality programme is a hub for both quality and efficiency. I am happy to tell Stortinget that 34 new municipalities were included in that programme yesterday. There is a scheme where elected and local leaders work together, both to reduce sick leave, to take care of those added and to ensure better quality of services. Then the government has proposed changes to the income system. We're assuming we're going to have an equivalent welfare offer across the country. We don't want to accept too many differences between municipalities and too many fluctuations in supply over time. Today's income system invites you to do so. We have seen the need for a smoother distribution and for greater stability and guidance in the municipalities' incomes, as well as the need to meet different regional challenges in a better way than today - both for district municipalities, for growth municipalities and for Oslo as the capital. A more even distribution of income is achieved through a lower tax component, the liquidation of municipal corporation tax and a stronger income bias. Greater stability and foresight are achieved through the liquidation of municipal corporation tax, the reduction of the tax component, the liquidation of the current system of updating population figures in the middle of the financial year and the introduction of a new transitional system - the guarantee of income. Regional challenges are addressed through a new district approach to municipalities in South Norway. Municipalities in Namdalen are receiving support as municipalities in Northern Norway, municipalities with a particularly strong population growth are growing, and Oslo is receiving capital support. High growth in free income in 2009 means an increase in the framework of the vast majority of municipalities, even after the conversion of the income system. I register a dividing line through this hall when it concerns local welfare services. The Right Party and the Progress Party are no longer talking so much about efficiency and modernisation, unlike, in fact, to the Government, which has a strong commitment to that very thing. They write -- one must almost call it a small, pale note -- that they're concerned that the government doesn't do enough in that field. And then they ask the government to launch an information campaign for challenge law in the municipalities. It is a scheme that I understand that former municipal minister Erna Solberg left away in 2004. I don't understand why it's going to happen again. So the government is busy that it's going to live people all over the country. They shall also have the option to choose where they want to bow, and they shall ensure equivalent welfare provision. I'm surprised that the Right has an involvement for the same frames as the Government, but they'll primarily take care of the largest cities. Such a policy I hope, for the sake of people and land, will not be brought to nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e687	It's going to be line change. The first replicater is Per Willy Guttormsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e690	I don't think the president meant the skater! Of course, it is wrong for the State Council to claim in its statement that the Progress Party and the Right are not concerned with the modernisation and efficiency of the municipalities. This is very clear from our comments - not least in connection with a much-needed change in the municipal structure in Norway, where perhaps the main need for this area is. I record that the Council of State again chooses to boast of the increase in income for Norwegian municipalities. She does, at the same time, let's say that the cost has actually increased more than the income. KS has said that income needs are higher until next year; in 2007, they see a significantly reduced operating result in Norwegian municipalities. It's not like the Council of State is trying to produce it. How can the Council of State think that the Government is standing back with any kind of trust, when it says that it is betting on the municipalities, while the sting of the opposite is being experienced in the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e701	I think people actually see both the 24 000 new year's work so far and the 26 000 kids who are now being accommodated in kindergarten. In our setup, there's room for what one calls demographic costs, that is, there's going to be more kids, there's going to be more older in this country. There is room for several years' care and care, for day-care activities for demente, for increased resource input at lower levels in the core and to follow up the NAV reform. I must be allowed to say that I do not register any people's demands towards a new municipal structure. The Government is open to voluntary initiatives taken from below in that field. There's a wonderful contradiction to the Progress Party's penchant no. Earlier today, they were too much local self - control.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e708	Since accession, members of the Government have traveled around the country and the beach with promises that it leaves to the municipalities themselves to honour. I can mention some examples: Trond Giske has promised more money for sports, more facilities, less hard work, lower hall rental, etc., etc. Jens Stoltenberg said we would get the world's best school through increased municipal economy. The current Minister of Local Councillor Åslaug Haga said that homeless people should get better follow-up because the better local economy now provides increased room for action in order to work systematically with the problem. Elder care was to be extended, schools and other public buildings were to be maintained. There really hasn't been a way of making promises. Today I heard on the radio that the municipal minister is now asking the municipalities not to promise more than they can fulfill themselves, as well as to dampen the people's expectations. Has the Minister of State given the same message to his colleagues in government? Can she guarantee that we will not now hear more such promises without bringing fresh money to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e715	My message on the radio today is that 2008 will be a demanding year, it is important that the municipalities keep with the funds they have, so that the deficit at the end of the year will not be greater than they expected. At the same time, there are new possibilities in 2009 in the 3.5 to 4 billion dollars that are coming. I'm very pleased with an offensive government on all that's going on in the community. The cultural lift has brought hundreds of millions into the municipalities every year, the school is strengthened, both with hours and with quality. We have taken important steps for the homeless, and we are ahead of new ones. In total: The government has delivered, we will continue to do so in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e722	There are two questions for the Council of State. One is about what we heard today's news this morning, where I realized that the Council of State asked rapporteurs around the country to subdue the expectations and cancel some of the Soria Moria promises and expectations that had been created. Was the message that one has realized that costs have risen so much that there is no room for action for further ambitions? That's the one question. I was surprised at the message. But was it because one has realized that the pressure of expectation created by the Government was too high? The second question is about something the Council of State did not mention in its statement: Will the interest compensation scheme, which we have repeatedly requested, come upon which the representative Battle Violence Vedum replied ‘maybe’? Can the Councils answer yes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e729	First to NRK today early: I think I have also made it clear in my post that I share the concerns of the municipalities for 2008. So I encourage them to be very careful about how they use the funds - of course, both in 2008 and 2009 - but mainly now in 2008. The quality community programme is one offering for both better quality and greater efficiency. Then there will be new opportunities and more resources to strengthen with additional annual works in 2009. So to the interest compensation: my entrance to it has been: it's better with a bird in hand than with ten on the roof. It is better with increases in free income than with interest-rate compensation. But as the vote also shows, this is something we will see in connection with the 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e736	It turns out we're busy with many of the same things here. The school-building interest-reimbursement scheme has proved to be a very popular scheme. Unfortunately, the Government has now terminated it. We have a lot of school buildings around the country screaming for refurbishment and maintenance. I can only refer to all the worn-out schools we have in my home country, Finnmark. Maintenance has not been given priority over the years, in a state where, in human memory, all the municipalities have been run by the workers' party. How does the Council of State responsible for the municipal sector feel that the labour environment law of the pupils should be taken seriously in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e743	The representative is quite right that there is a huge lag in maintenance. It's probably not fun to be reminded of it, but it's clear that there was a recent period of several years when the municipalities were starving, and at least it wasn't maintenance that one looked at first. From the Government's side, we have established a cooperation project with which we are very pleased, the KoBE project - Ko stands for competence, BE for better property management. It will help to improve the response of local authorities. So I have to say, the foundation for a better working environment in schools is of course a better local economy, and the government has delivered it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e752	The representative, Hagebakken, pulled out all the new hands in the care sector. We've heard that from the government parties. I have been sent a number material from the County of Sogn and Fjordane, which I then checked among the municipalities. Eid municipality in Sogn and Fjordane is listed in the KOSTRA reporting with 153 settings in the care and care sector. In the annual report from Eid kommune, the municipality is listed as 96. There is a difference of 57 years' work only in the municipality of Eid. The County Council has previously recognised that there are similar errors for many other municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane. I've also pointed out this earlier in this room. Is the Council willing to go in and check the correct figures, as reported in the annual reports from the municipalities, against KOSTRA?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e762	I stick to the overview that we have been reported on a country-wide basis. I don't have a reason to doubt it as far as it goes. If these are still questions that relate to unanswered individual municipalities, there's probably a reason for that. Of course, I will be willing to go into it. So I have to say, this is a little bit amazing. I'm not going to take the Progress Party for what is now Right's involvement in the municipal sector, but when it comes to the Progress Party, both Siv Jensen and Per Sandberg stood here in 2004 and 2005 and was very pleased with the framework that the then government presented. So now today's government is already pointing to 24,000 more annual works, and we're announcing new possibilities for next year. We are not in the target, but in the Progress Party: enjoy the improvements that are now!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e771	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e774	The municipality proposal for 2009 is a good document that points forward for the municipalities that provide very many of our welfare services. Since the autumn of 2005, there has been a good development in the local economy, and many statistics show that we are on the right track. The target of 10000 new annual works in the health and care sector is more than met. Since the red-green government joined in the autumn of 2005, there have been more than 11,000 new annual works there. We also have a record expansion of kindergartens and are soon on target in view of the fact that all children should have the right to a kindergarten. All of this is very good, and I'm proud of the results we achieve in terms of municipal welfare. One area that concerns me is the development of the primary school. We have seen that there has been varying investment in schools in different municipalities. Although the decline of the school has stopped under the red-green government, and we see a weak growth in teacher's density, we have challenges in school. The common school has many qualities, not least by the fact that children from all social classes and regardless of the thickness of their parents' wallets go to the same school. It gives us a society of many advantages and qualities. Norwegian children have a good sense of democracy, and they thrive in school. There is little bullying in school compared to other countries, and Norwegian students have a good relationship with their teachers. But we have challenges with regard to the level of knowledge in basic subjects such as Norwegian and mathematics, where international studies and national tests show that we have a way to go. The main concern is related to the reading skills. Very many go out of primary school without having enough reading skills to do in high school, and end up there. So this fall, we're introducing five new hours in elementary school, just to strengthen the important subjects of Norwegian and math. I am very pleased that the municipal bill for next year has set aside 430 million. to follow up on the municipal obligation that will strengthen Norwegian and math education in the first four years of school. It is also announced that the full-year effect of NOK 1 billion from 2010 will be followed up. That means 2,000 new year's work at school. This is good, and I trust that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, as I know is busy with the school, will follow up the expectations we have for the municipalities that the quality of the school needs to be strengthened. I assume that all the municipalities will end up with the objectives of the new quality report for the school, which includes: read: «All children leaving primary school shall master basic skills which enable them to participate in further education and working life.» Other areas are also important in terms of quality of service development. It was therefore gratifying that last week four new centres were launched to carry out practical research and development in the care sector. In 2006, the first centre was established at the University of Gjøvik. Now there are four more - one at the University of Agder, in cooperation with the University of Telemark, one at the University of Bergen, one at the University of Nord-Trøndelag and one at the University of Tromsø. That's good! Municipalities have undertaken to cooperate actively with these centres in order to improve care services in municipalities and to be able to recruit, and not least in order to retain qualified personnel. It shows an offensive attitude from the Municipality of Norway, which I appreciate. Finally, some words about changes in the income system, which both the committee leader and others have made clear. I think it's a big step in the right direction to smooth out the differences in Municipality-Norway. We need to be very respectful of the challenges that cities and press areas face, but we have also seen how the differences have increased in terms of the ability of municipalities to provide citizens with the services they are entitled to. In particular, I am pleased that the Namdal municipalities are now receiving North Norway grants, and that municipalities with special challenges are receiving a district grant. This will improve the ability of municipalities both to provide welfare services and to be the community developer a municipality is expected to be. This is how we ensure that all citizens and businesses receive the services they require, regardless of where they live or are established in the country. It is important that we maintain the pattern of living in our country, that we facilitate active agriculture and forestry, and that we can operate fish farming where conditions are good for this important industry. Furthermore, it must be possible for Norwegian industry to produce paper and advanced installations for the oil industry as well as new technologies for wind power generation at land and sea. Then the municipalities must be rusted by having a good school, a good care and good kindergartens, regardless of their geographical location. I think that's what the changes in the income system contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e796	In his contribution, the rapporteur of the Centre Party said that he experienced and felt that the municipal sector had been able to expand the municipal services at a great pace, and that the staff of the municipalities and county councils had increased sharply. But in Hordaland -- in the councilman's suggestion -- it's put up to cuts that will hit the high school, road maintenance, dentistry and culture. The county administration will also have its frames severely reduced. In high school in Hordaland, the proposed cuts will lead to a reduction in intake, while each school may reduce its budgets. There's something that doesn't match the experience, feelings and reality of the government parties. I - and not least KS - disagree that the government has improved the financial situation of municipalities. I want to show that the municipalities received a significant promise in 2006, but since that time it has been going down sharply. It turns out that, among other things, because the Government has blocked in its estimates of cost growth and demography by each State budget and revised national budget. The Progress Party, in its 2007 and 2008 Alternative State Budget, advocated an increase of DKr 1.4 billion and DKr 0.6 billion respectively for the municipal sector compared to what the Government did in that period. I would also like to point out that the Progress Party in the revised national budget for 2008 and 2007 went in for 2.2 billion kroner and 1 billion more than the Government did. They also promised full child care coverage from the government, but only 80 pst. children have been offered a children's playground. I have noticed that the government, with its estimation of new kindergartens, once again heavily bombs. It is quite clear that the government has no good plan, and certainly no good action, to increase the development of new sites. The rate of expansion has stagnated for several years. The main reason for the low level of development is the unforeseeable nature of the framework conditions, and it is likely that there may be a slow procedure in municipalities, especially in relation to private developers. The Progress Party has great faith in the Municipality of Norway, and being able to develop democracy is important. That is why we want to look at Denmark, which has recently implemented a comprehensive reform. The number of municipalities that were reduced from 271 to 98 in a short time. The Progress Party now wants to consider implementing a similar reform in Norway. It should be possible to halve the number of municipalities, while at the same time reducing the counties. Unfortunately, many of today's municipalities are too small to increase, well-known local self-government and to provide good services to the population. So we want to use carrots to get the municipalities involved in this reform. I would like to make it clear that the party of progress is not a member of the association of municipalities with coercion. The aggregation shall be voluntary. In many places aggregation will not be possible because of topography, and therefore there will still be many small municipalities in Norway after this reform. I would like to stress that the role of local and local democracy is to ensure the freedom of choice and the ability of individuals to influence as much as possible decisions relating to themselves. At the same time, I see that because of, among other things, economies of scale are appropriate for some clearly defined public tasks to be addressed and financed by the State. The Progress Party wants to strengthen the economy of municipalities and believes that there is a particular need for increased efforts in the care of the elderly. The party notes that there is still a long way to go until an elderly body that shines. Prior to the wage settlement, the KS considered that the municipal sector would need DKK 5.7 billion in increased, free revenues in 2009 to finance services for an increasing population, to meet the needs of school and care for the elderly and to invest in maintenance. I would like to point out that the high wage growth implies increased resources for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e822	Today we have to deal with the municipal proposal for 2009. The government contributes to a real growth in the total income of the local government sector of DKK 7-7,5 billion. This will give the municipalities more room for action, and we are proud to note that, so far, during this great period, we have strengthened Kommune-Norway with approximately DKK 28 billion. This has been absolutely necessary after several years of starvation of Norwegian municipalities. We still hear voices in Kommune-Norway that you need more money. I understand that, and we take that seriously, but as a responsible government, you can't just spend unlimited money. Interest rate increases are a danger to municipalities, and we need to pursue a tight fiscal policy that does not increase the level of interest rates further. Increased construction costs are also a problem that many municipalities face. This is also important to bring with you in the big picture. But as I said, this government has invested heavily in the municipalities, and we will continue to do so. It's said about the community proposition that it's boring and heavy reading, which very few really care about. To some extent, it is in many ways true, but it means incredibly much to actually all the inhabitants of Norway. The community proposition means a lot to the municipalities of Norway, and the municipalities are the biggest welfare producers we have. Municipalities focus on key areas that directly interfere with everyone's life, such as kindergarten, school, public offices, health services, nursing homes or nursing homes. The Progress Party also kicks the government that one does not have a plan for the expansion of kindergartens, and claims that the government is doing a lifting break. More errors can be done with respect to not reporting. Under the red-green government, the municipalities have set a world record in the construction of kindergartens. There has been a great deal of expansion, and the goal of full kindergarten coverage is not far away. In 2006 and 2007, we have had a growth in the number of full-time jobs in almost 34 000. This is a formidable number, and I'm sure those who have enjoyed these places have accepted them well. We had at the end of 2007 a coverage of 84.2 pst. So we're not yet in the goal. The government is going to be betting on this field, and the goal is absolute within reach. I am very pleased with that, and I am proud of the efforts the Government has made in this area. It means a lot to those families that struggle to get their everyday lives to go together, and that need a safe place for their loved ones. We're of the opinion that it's not going to be the wallet that's going to determine what kind of services you're going to get through life's migration. We are followers of a strong and well-developed public welfare society where human warmth comes before capitalist cold. I register that the Progress Party also wants this time to give more money to the municipalities - more money than the Government adds. We know the consequences of the large-scale use of money by the Progress Party, whether it be full financing of road development, or, as we heard today in the debate, compensation for the municipalities that have property taxes, which the Progress Party wants to remove. I note that the economic ball of the Progress Party is getting bigger and bigger. The central bank manager has said that the use of oil money in the order of the Progress Party will lead to even higher interest rates. The consequences of the Progress Party's policy will be felt both by the people of most and Norwegian municipalities. But one thing the Progress Party avoids telling is how the Kommune-Norway should look in the Progress Party. The newspaper Kommunal Report 12 June shows what is in store. 270 municipalities are going away, and that by coercion. That is the goal of the Progress Party. Now I think this party should be honest and tell the Norwegian people which municipalities they want to remove. I expect the Progress Party towards the 2009 elections to travel on a major Norway tour and to inform you about where the new municipal borders will go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e837	We often hear that government councils and members from the government party stand up in the media and tell the people what their bets are, and how many millions and billions are to be spent on the different government councils' areas. The Committee has been on several trips around the country and has had contact with many local politicians, including local politicians from the government parties. The signals you received about the state of Kommune-Noreg contrast strongly with the self-criticism you have heard from the red-green ones in this room. It's easy to stand here and tell Soria Moria adventures and hold party speeches, and beat around with billions, without raising your eyes and seeing the reality and the need out in the municipalities. Increases in costs and needs in core tasks in municipalities are growing more strongly than the government will take over. We in the Progress Party have seen and heard on these comitations about the need and take into account that more money has to be given to the local government sector. Therefore, in our comments, we have taken the height of what must be delivered to the municipalities in order for local politicians around the country to be able to provide a service to their citizens who are in line with what we have expressed at a central level. We did the same thing a year ago. The result of this ointment was the Tore Hagebakken representative: ‘So I have to say something about what I choose to call the ‘population billion’ from the Progress Party. After the red-green government has strengthened the local economy and will continue to do so, so that in 2008 we are almost 20 billion kroner above what was level in 2005, so the Progress Party comes and says that they are going in for a billion more dollars. And when you then know the past of the Advance Party in the area of municipal economy, it appears like a clean tactical manoeuvre a few months before the municipal elections." What happened then? Yes, when the local politicians from the government party were to manage their municipal budget for 2008, and cutting-off proposals with a threat of intensification before the care of the elderly and schooling came on the table, the government party, including Tore Hagebakken, realized that the Progress Party was right and that more money had to be given to the local government sector. It was not until the turn of the year that the Council of State signaled that the municipal sector needed more money. When the representatives Hagebakken and Schlagsvold Vedum stood in this room a year ago with their show-off lists, one would almost believe that they had traveled around this country with skyscrapers and plugs in their ears. When it comes to the conversion and efficiency of the public sector, the Progress Party has not recorded any efforts on the part of the Government that we thought there was any reason to boast. Although the whole Committee, in a comment, stresses that the overall challenges for the municipal sector in the future are great, and that there is also evidence that there is a need for continuous work on renewal in all parts of the municipal sector, so my Progress Party that the Government shows little willingness to convert and improve efficiency in the public sector. The government party unhesitatingly boasted of what would be the great lift for the elderly and caregiver, simply agreed on the old-age guarantee. Based on the big words used by the government parties about how this agreement would ensure the elderly and caregivers a full-fledged public service, a belief would be that the government party's local politicians would kill themselves to put this guarantee scheme into practice in their respective municipalities. The truth is, nothing has happened in the municipalities when it comes to the old-age guarantee. The Progress Party's local politicians have now begun to call for action. One thing is certain, and it is that there is a cross-political agreement that a strengthening of fire services must exist, but there must be funds from the state, which was not the case. Missing funding from the state of this guarantee is also the explanation of why the government party's local politicians do not mention this guarantee in a single word. I dare say that it must be very difficult for the Government to detect a single municipality that has implemented this guarantee. This guarantee is as hypothetical as the number of hands before care and care as the Prime Minister boasts so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e870	In line with the proposal, the Committee has taken into account the proposal of the Sørheim Committee for a new income system. That means that the symmetric tax revenue balance increases from 55 to 60 pst. within three years. In addition, the entire corporation tax is made state-owned. For Oslo, this represents an income loss of about 500 million. kr. In fact, Oslo shall contribute more than half of the redistribution – or the committee referred to as ‘equalising undesirable differences in the service provision’. Even before the proposal from the Sørheim Committee came forward, Oslo has contributed more than half of the tax equalisation. If this had not been taken into account, Oslo’s population would have been hit very hard: care for the elderly, kindergartens, school services, youth services, the provision of services to people with a minority background and entirely necessary measures against vulnerable groups, which tend to attract the capital from other parts of the country. They thus become a responsibility for Oslo City Parts and the Municipality of Oslo. Oslo has special tasks that cannot be carried out in today's income system. So it's very positive that we're adding 300 million. SEK for a capital grant. I would like to pay tribute to the Council of State and, in particular, to the head of the committee for both listening to us from Oslo and taking into account the realities we presented to them. In fact, Oslo has three roles: Oslo's role as the capital responsible for everything from plots to embassies, to the preservation of national cultural values Oslo as the regional centre for more than one million people Oslo as a city community and municipality to provide services and secure work and housing for the capital -- I think it's 560,000 inhabitants now. Oslo's population is a very complex group, but it also makes the city an exciting place to live. Growing up and living in a big city offers a wealth of opportunities, but at the same time it requires the state and local authorities to recognise that the urban community is a collective institution with a high need for public services. Oslo has residents from all over the country and a very high proportion with a migrant and minority background. In fact, an increasing number of the country's children are growing up in the Oslo region, overall. I refer to documentation in the capital message that was processed earlier this year. The Oslo representatives of the Labour Party have asked the Swedish Research Department for a statistical overview of the proportion in Oslo of some costly or what we may call vulnerable groups. I'll give you some examples: Oslo has 12 pst. Of the country's inhabitants, but we have 35 pst. by all non-Western immigrants, i.e. 107,800. Think about that number a little bit. I believe that we all - not just the municipality of Oslo - have a responsibility for these becoming operational in the Norwegian community, that they are learning Norwegian, getting school and getting to work. So to a completely different group, Oslo has 33 pst. of the country’s injecting drug users, a total of 3 000. They're not all from Oslo. Many of them originally belong to other municipalities. We have 23 pst. Of the homeless, and we have 15 pst. of all psychiatric patients, treated in Oslo. It's actually 25 000 children and adults. And 16 pst. of all those who have been punished for crimes resided in Oslo. Oslo had 84 pst in 2007. of all street prostitutes in Norway. This afternoon, Oslo City Council deals with detailed plans and measures to get prostitutes out of prostitution and into education, rehabilitation, work and housing, and here there is a broad consensus in Oslo City Council today. We know that there has to be an active interaction with government. But anyway, it's Oslo municipality that's doing this today. If Stortinget had only dealt with the recommendations of the Sørheim Committee, it would have made it very difficult to provide a service offer, among other things. to the groups that I have mentioned, and then I have not mentioned either the elderly or kindergartens, the usual services. Therefore, the capital grant is a way of resolving this, and then - eventually - it is important that it is not a one-off or transitional arrangement. There must be a fixed grant in the income system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e906	The municipalities of the country are very different. Some are large, some are small. Some are coastal, some are inland. Some have population decline, some have population growth. Some are nutritious; some are poor in nutrition. That's how I could still have. Therefore, it is difficult to pursue a municipal policy that captures all the different challenges. Traditionally, there has been a strong focus in Norway on district problems and municipalities that are struggling with relocation. It's been absolutely necessary. But I would also like to stress that municipalities with growth in the population have challenges. New roads shall be constructed, water and sewerage networks shall be developed and kindergartens, schools and care services shall be developed as the municipality moves into the municipality. Let me mention my own municipality of residence, Skedsmo, as an example. From 2007 to 2008, the population of the municipality of Skedsmo has increased by between 1500 and 1600 inhabitants, i.e. 200 more primary school students in a single year, while the same increase in demand for kindergarten places. Clearly, this is demanding for the municipal politicians in Skedsmo. It has not been as easy to put the challenges of growth communities on the agenda. It has in a way been a truth that the country's growing regions live on its green branch, and there they have obviously lived well, as many have perceived it. It is often referred to as Bærum as an example. Examples can be used, and examples can be abused. This is also a friendly recommendation to the rapporteur to consider the appropriateness of using Bærum as an example. The carrier is in a very special situation, perhaps partly comparable to Asker and Oppengård. But there are no other municipalities either in Akershus, in the lower part of Buskerud, in Eastfold or in Westfold, or of the municipalities around Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim that are in the same situation, and these are municipalities with some inhabitants. The county council in Akershus, for example. is so to say on every overview we get, at the very bottom of all the municipalities in terms of the size of the free income. Sometimes the municipality spreads up to the second last place, but usually it's on its own. Some municipalities have growth in the population while at the same time being low-tax municipalities. Clearly, this is challenging when it comes to providing a good service to the population. I am therefore very pleased that Regeringen, as the first in history, is now launching a separate grant for municipalities with large growth in the population, the so-called growth grant. I am also pleased that a lemper is somewhat less likely to trigger such growth grants in relation to the Sørheim committee. With the new scheme, if the population growth is more than one and a quarter times the national average over the last three years, and one does not have tax revenue of more than 140 pst. of the national average. We are close to sea, and to refer again to our own state: if we base population growth from 2002 to 2005, 10 of Akershus' 22 municipalities will receive such growth subsidies - not a very large sum, it's far from enough, but it's a small step in the right direction. I am also pleased that the majority in the vote says that one should pay extra attention to the situation in low-tax municipalities in South Norway that do not receive a district grant. I look forward to that. Some say that the income system for the municipal sector is very complicated. It's not that hard. After working on pensions and questions related to popular security, I have learned that there is a lot of politics in the details. One has to get the details to get the whole thing. This is also the case with the income system for the municipal sector. Now we're discussing one of the pillars of the income system, the income bias. It's just as important to look at the cost equalization. The so-called cost keys, a set of objective criteria, are used to offset the difference in the expenditure needs of municipalities. There's a lot of politics here. I'm looking forward to getting rid of the cost keys and the cost bias. There is also a need for changes here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e928	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e931	I am pleased that the Government so clearly focuses on strengthening welfare services throughout the country. There is no doubt that this can only be resolved through a strong public sector and common welfare mechanisms. Without a strong public sector, we have no opportunity to have equivalent living conditions across the country. I notice that someone thinks it's much more important to count the number of heads and then look away from the number of kilometers. The Progress Party will have a single-price financing, and then we know how the districts are going. They'll be the big loser. I see from time to time in the press that a setup is made to show what each municipality uses, for example. per 1 % Students at school, and trying to show differences based on it. Everyone must understand that it is more expensive per person. builds up the operation of municipal services in areas with large distances and scattered settlements. A municipality which, due to large geographical distances, has to have several cross-border schools must necessarily use more per. pupils than a municipality that can gather everyone in large central schools. The same is true of several other municipal services, and so is the case of counties with large geographical areas, which are to be served by transport and education, etc. Therefore, unit-price financing is so terribly wrong. I am very pleased that the North Norway grant is being continued. This is an important subsidy in order to provide the inhabitants of this part of the country with equivalent municipal services to the inhabitants of the rest of the country. However, I see that many small municipalities in South Norway have some of the same challenges as municipalities in North Norway. That is why I would strongly support the proposal for a new district grant. This is an important cohesion and no more complicated than that. As former rapporteur in a district municipality, I know what this is all about. In the case of the municipalities of Nord Troms, there are strong reasons why all these municipalities should be included under the action zone. This requirement has been on several governments' tables. I am therefore pleased that there is now full agreement in the Committee that this must be looked at in greater detail. I believe that this needs to be put in place in the 2009 budget, because this is also about being able to provide equivalent services across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e946	It has been interesting to follow the debate on local economy and distribution. As far as care services are concerned, neither I nor anyone in the Centre Party's big business group believe that the municipal sector works optimally everywhere, in the sense that there is no potential for improvement quantitatively and qualitatively on services in many municipalities. In newspapers and through radio and television, we are reminded of the lack of follow-up and discharge from the local authorities towards those who are caring and their relatives. Many report lack of quality systems to ensure good care and capacity problems to provide users with a sufficiently good range of care services. This is not the way the Center Party wants it to be. As a result, the Centre Party has followed up the promise of strong growth in the local economy, so that the care sector has actually been able to increase the number of annual work by 11 100 in 2006 and 2007, and the vast majority of employees have a health and social background. This is a good start, and shows that the government actually delivers in this area. Furthermore, it is estimated that in the period 2008-2015 there is a need for a further 12 000 annual work in hospital homes, for activity and home services. So the continued strengthening of local government finances is a prerequisite for people with care needs to be able to live a good life. This responsibility will be taken by the Center Party. Furthermore, the Centre considers that the interaction between the local health service and the specialist health service needs to be improved. We believe that responsibility for this interaction should be legalised, and that municipalities should have a greater responsibility for the grey zone between the hospital and the municipal health service. The principle of subsidiarity is important when quality is good. Care for serious sick and dying, whether at home or in a nursing home, requires the organisation and strengthening of staff resources both quantitatively and qualitatively. Agreements between the State and the Municipal Councils in order to enhance the quality of the care sector are important contributions in this area. Furthermore, I would like to point out that a few weeks ago, the Stortinget passed a law extending the patient Ombudsman scheme to municipal health and care services. We believe that this is an important contribution, in order to increase the focus on quality in care services around our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e964	The rapporteur pointed out that Norway is a different country, and that is a fundamental recognition that needs to be taken over when discussing municipal economics. The vision and the idea of an equivalent service offer in all the municipalities of the country make it challenging to create a system that captures everything absolutely. Growth municipalities, relocation municipalities, municipalities with large distances, municipalities with large social differences - everyone has the different challenges. All municipalities have something that characterizes exactly them. So equivalent service offers do not mean that you can set a price per unit. head and think you're on target. Smoothing is important and correct. Let there be no doubt about it. At the same time, it is not to conceal that as Oslo's representative, I have been concerned that Oslo's contribution to redistribution is going to be even greater than it is today. It is not always easy to understand that the major urban challenges are special. I think, for example, It is difficult to understand without having seen it, what it means for everyday school life when primary school students have dozens of different nationalities. There is no other municipality where the social differences are larger. It is worth taking into account when discussing differences between municipalities. Crime, prostitution, drugs are also problems we have to deal with on a completely different scale than all the other municipalities in this country. Crime, prostitution and drug traffic are seeking to reach the city. It's a responsibility we take, but we need an understanding of what it requires of resources. At the same time, Oslo has special tasks as a capital, as an engine and as a host to large state businesses. The capital supplement of 300 miles. kr is a recognition of exactly that. Both the government council and the government fraction deserve praise for having seen this. We are pleased to have such an addition from Oslo, which compensates to some extent for the increased contributions made by Oslo to the balancing of income. Then I can't help not commenting on the concern of the Progress Party for local democracy, while at the same time the party is to silence the municipality for tasks. Each of us is going to find someone who offers the services we need, and then the bill is going to go to the state. That there has to be a crazy bureaucracy out of such a system, is now one thing. What's much more serious is that this essentially means that you can put the municipality down. Privates shall provide the services. The state has to pay. The role of the municipality, the local government, the local authority's own ability to make priorities, local politicians who actually have responsibility for their citizens in their own municipalities, will be completely confused, but a huge NAV office will get most municipalities with such a model. It surprises me that this idea creates such enthusiasm in the ranks of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e975	The local government sector represents a significant share and is an important part of public activity. In many areas, it constitutes a very effective management of Community funds and provides good quality services to its citizens. The municipal sector is also facing major challenges. Life expectancy rises, large depopulation in parts of the country and large population growth in other parts, labour struggles and increased demands for new services are among some of them. Another and very important challenge in the municipal sector is the quality of school content, school construction and indoor environment. National leaders provide frameworks for schools, but the performing part is largely up to the individual municipalities and municipal politicians. Left wants to prioritise national resources differently from the Government. We don't want to expand the hours in elementary school by five hours a week. We think this is the wrong priority now. We'd rather use the resources to make sure that already existing hours provide better learning. The left will therefore use more resources on a teacher's promise and to introduce a year of competence for teachers. Several counties, on the initiative of the Left, have investigated what it will cost to introduce a year of competence, which shows that this is fully feasible. We notice that the government is now coming gradually after. Recruitment of teachers is another challenge that requires a national priority on the one hand, and a five-year teacher training is one of the instruments. In addition, the Left is engaged in teacher training at universities, which is more likely to recruit to secondary school. The search for the classical higher education subjects at universities is strongly declining, not least for real and linguistic subjects. It is a national task to look at incentives to strengthen the search for and quality of education of teachers in high school. It's a fact that the average age of high school teachers is high. Many teachers will be replaced in a few years. Another challenge in high school is the great dropout of students. Here it is necessary to focus on implementation at a lower level than study and professional competence. We have to provide better facilities for those who cannot follow the norm of school. This includes, inter alia: to bring more practice into the education cycle and to strengthen counselling services both in secondary and secondary schools. An overall committee is also behind the view that many school buildings do not meet the requirements of the law on working conditions for students, and that this affects learning outcomes and well-being for very many students. The entire Committee stresses the need for priority to be given to this part of the learning environment. In view of this, it becomes strange when the Government liquidates the successful school building interest compensation scheme two years early. In its 2008 alternative government budget, the Left has prioritised DKK 2 billion for this scheme. Finally, I would like to mention the fact that Sami-speaking students have not yet received a single textbook adapted to the Knowledge promise. Here we have a common responsibility to clean up. The left now has a 2 million priority in its alternative budget. kr to such a learning material coordinator.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e988	I want to start with a never-small history of daily life in a local community governed by the Advance Party and the Right. It has happened that the daughter of an elderly, needy lady seemed to the mother so twisted on her hair after she had been given help showering. Then she asked the home service if they could not roll up their mother's hair after the shower. The answer she received was as follows: Unfortunately, it was not allowed to do so, because they had no decision on it. That's how it works in Oslo. The answer, of course, is a product of the so-called order/executor system that is idealized by the right parties, and now has ridden Norwegian municipalities as a farsot in recent years. In many municipalities, nurses have moved into offices, where they are now sitting and making decisions according to specific guidelines. In other words, there are more to manage and fewer to care for. Similarly, important areas of activity are distinguished from their own municipal enterprises, which are next to be exposed to competition. The right-hand parts call it efficiency improvement. The result will be red tape. At the same time, we record that area by area in this way is moved out of popular control, i.e. the management of important municipal services is transferred to the administration and to the market, of course. I think we should be far more interested in how the municipalities organise and carry out their activities. In the civilised Larvik, property operations are now to be separated as a separate enterprise, not because property operations then become much better, but because the operation itself is moved out of the municipal budgets. Such structures are most often a reflection of the views of the right-wing parties on municipal activities in general. If, against assumption, they were to recapture the bulk of the population next year, we would have to expect new rounds of competition and privatisation and starvation of the municipalities in order to force them into municipal mergers, i.e. the well-known Erna method. Here is the Progress Party and the Right. It is now time that the Vice-President of the Progress Party Per Sandberg will soon tell us which 270 municipalities he will remove from the Norwegian municipality map. Sandberg has, as you know, been in Denmark and let himself be inspired. He says to Municipal Report that many of today's municipalities are too small to local self-government. He added that he would now use both carrot and whip to get this. I think we now deserve a more detailed explanation of both carrots and whips.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1001	I have, in the Central Party, made myself the spokesman for the conversion of company taxes that is now carried out according to the Government's proposal and after the majority of the majority in Storting, as it is at least in the position. My position has been taken from local conditions in a press region. In the Capital Region, we have a common housing and labour market. There are 23 municipalities in Oslo and Akershus that are struggling to cooperate on land and transport planning. Now each municipality has its own success in the struggle for the "fattest" business start-ups. When that's true, the result is all too often bad solutions environmentally, because we use areas incorrectly and generate commuting we could avoid by better locating new activity. The 13 Roman communities, in cooperation with Akershus County, developed a joint district plan some years ago, where they came very far into coordinating their solutions on housing and industrial development. The distribution of growth and nutrition from the point of view of the overall benefit rather than the individual municipality alone was taken into account. This, of course, broke when the corporate tax was again done by municipal authorities. The fight for the good income of the richest enterprises became, of course, more important for each municipality than a coordinated housing and industrial development policy and environmentally friendly transport and land planning. I therefore see it as a wise decision, from the point of view of a press area, as the capital region, to go back on it to the good idea that municipalities should be stimulated to think about dynamic industrial policy by gaining profits through nutrient taxation. But the good idea does not work when environmental and transport considerations are included, such as some later to believe, according to their comments in this setting. Then to a completely different point: the NAV reform. The municipalities are central to the implementation of the greatest welfare reform in decades, which we are now in the middle of implementing. In the Central Party, we believe that the place of the municipalities in the NAV reform is very important. It is and will be challenging to find the balance between municipality and state in the management of the activities to be carried out by the NAV municipal offices. We must succeed in that. It is the municipalities that are closest to the population and that have the tradition of developing solutions that are adapted to local conditions and to the individual's situation. The introduction of the qualification support programme for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance is one of the most important reforms that this government has implemented in its efforts to combat poverty. However, since this measure is introduced in parallel with the establishment of the NAV offices, we will have to wait until the end of 2009 before the whole country is covered by the scheme. So it's not like the opposition gives the impression in its comment that the qualification programme has been implemented across the country. It won't be until one and a half years. Neither do the same parties assume that the social assistance costs of the municipalities resulting from this programme will be significantly reduced. Municipalities continue to contribute to the funding of the qualification programme, taking into account the level of social assistance. And then, in addition, comes the state with what's going to happen to get the qualifying benefit of 2 G.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1016	You can only be surprised to hear the representative Gullvåg and the way he paints black. He brings forward individual municipalities that must have been run by the Right Party and the Advance Party, and immediately in the same sling he withdraws the discussion of both the ordering function and an underlying stopwatching. The representative of Gullvåg is very wrong. What the Right and Advance Party do is put the individual in the center. By having free user choice, each patient is given the opportunity to choose not only who comes home to them, but also what to do. The question here is really about how we see the individual, whether we should be politicians sitting in a local government hall or here at Stortinget and deciding that everyone should have the same offer, or whether the individual patient or user needs other kind of help, and can decide the use of time themselves. So let me go back to the local economy. The scene is the same this year as it has been before, but the rhetoric is substantially changed. Now the red-greens have gone over to talk about equivalent services and all sorts of fine rhetorical desires, instead of - as one witnessed in the previous magnification period, at the beginning of this period - the revolution: more to the municipalities. You've now gone away from it, precisely because you realize that you've created an expectation crisis. What the municipalities are suffering from right now is red-green rhetoric, where on the one hand you say that you have granted NOK 21 billion more for all the good purposes in the municipalities, while on the other hand KS and the municipalities themselves experience something wrong with it. KS believes that there has actually been a real decline in free income over the period 2007-2008. The question is, when drawing out red-green rhetoric from 2004-2006: what has happened? - Obviously a breach of promise. Let me just add that it must be a paradox, not least for today's government, that so far the Bondevik II government has prioritised the municipalities higher than the Stoltenberg II government, measured as a percentage of our total expenditure. Let me get to the corporate tax and local self-government last but also local taxpayers. On the KS side, in the same way as on the Right, one has a wish for the local taxpayer to be about 50 pst. The government has now adjusted it down. This means that municipalities are put in a much worse position to solve their own problems. It is difficult to see that there are variations between municipalities and that municipalities can choose different solutions. Mangfold is not a threat. It creates actual development and progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1036	In this debate and in the vote, we are presented with the theories of the Progress Party on how we should do this, namely through price financing. Then all problems would be solved. It's nice to have visions, but sometimes it makes sense to look at what's happening in reality where the Progress Party gets power. They have now gained power in Norway's sixth largest city, Fredrikstad. There they have promised to remove the property tax. They said before the election that they knew how to do it, but they wouldn't tell it until after the election. Now that story is gone in the blue. On the other hand, we have had a curtailment in the guise times, and from the fall it is forbidden in Fredrikstad to sell food between 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. So in FrP-steered Fredrikstad you can go into 7-Eleven and buy a whole piece of bread and a package of grill sausages, but not a pickled round piece and hot sausage in pocket. Here in the Chamber in the last period, where the Progress Party settled the budget with the Bondevik government, there was no more priority for the municipalities. It was a few hundred million kroner a few times, but the great promise of the Bondevik government's arrangement in the previous period was when the Workers' Party made budgetary settlements with the government. Then there were 2 billion more to the municipalities. Then we're in the fight for reality. We now hear that a rise in municipal incomes of nearly 21 billion in real growth, which has never happened before, is now to be explained away. Yes, I also meet the rapporteurs who say that the money has gone away. If that is the case, it is essentially important to call an auditor. What has happened is that we have received 25 000-26,000 more annual works, 11,000 of them in the care sector, and 26 000 more kindergartens. It's clear that that will increase the cost. It is quite right, as has been said in the debate, that we have also had a cost increase that has been stronger than expected. But we must not forget that if the payroll is more expensive than the basis for it, it is the municipality's own responsibility. You cannot deprive the municipalities of the responsibility that they must also keep track of the expenditure side. With the situation we're in, it's right that it's still crowded. When we put on and stretch out the lifeline a couple of dots and then keep putting on, it's tight. But it is--nearly said--become more of us! So this trick is that the share of gross domestic product has fallen. Now, as it has become the goal of how liberal or how urgent it is in the municipal sector. Bent Höie said that the share of GDP is about the same now as it was under the Bondevik government. Yes, but GDP is several times higher. And it's going to swing along with the oil price. It is still tight in the municipal sector. It's going to be tight, because the challenges are growing. It is a common challenge, but the answer is not in a hocus-pocus scheme of price financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1053	When I was born, in 1973, about 3 pst. by Norwegian children in kindergartens. Today is 96 pst. of the children in a kindergarten before school starts. This is a revolution -- both in view of kindergartens and in the possibility of having a kindergarten. This revolution would not be possible without SV. There is a maximum price in kindergartens of NOK 2 300 per year. months. The price of a municipal space is reduced by 34 pst. since 2002. Just a few days ago, Stortinget adopted the right to babysitting. It's now under law. This is incredibly important for our parents and for our kids. Kindergarten is good for the kids. This year we will spend 21 billion kroner on kindergarten. We do that because not only do we build out, but we also focus on the quality and content of kindergartens. The municipalities are the very heart, the hub, in the welfare state of Norway. And it's important that we strengthen the local economy. I'm very proud to be part of a majority government that prioritises the municipalities and that gives the municipalities space for action and the ability to run good schools and good health and care services. It's true that the country is far, and most of it's north. There are some challenges that you have in the north that you don't experience so many other places. I am pleased that the Municipal Committee says in its position that the municipalities in the Nord-Troms Action Zone are treated differently with the Finnmark municipalities, and that they are asked to look at this in greater detail by the Government. This, I believe, is a very important note, because these North Troms municipalities face the same challenges and have the same industrial structure, the same distances and also the same as the Finnmark municipalities have. It is right for the Municipal Committee to ask the Government to take a closer look at this with regard to the 2009 budget. If you do something about this, it will have significant effects and ring-effects for a number of municipalities in Nord-Troms. Some municipalities are care municipalities to a greater extent than others, and I am extremely pleased that the Government says that the 2009 budget will return to a number of the municipalities that are called host municipalities, and that the host municipality grant will again be earmarked. I'm glad you're coming back to this in the 2009 budget. This is important, because this is justice in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1064	The size currently covers the municipality's 2009 proposal, including a new income system for municipalities. The government continues to show a strong willingness to bet on the municipalities, and I, as a centrist and a settler, am satisfied with the grips made in the new income system. The principle of stronger cohesion is necessary to enable district municipalities to develop their service provision in the future. For Uppland, the proposal implies a positive outcome for all 26 municipalities in the county. In fact, Uppland municipalities have a total growth of 169 million. kr next year. Nine municipalities are covered by the new district grant, and seven municipalities are still receiving regional grants. Overall, the municipalities of Uppland also serve the corporate tax equalisation mechanism, which is included in the proposal. There is therefore reason to pay tribute to the Government for taking courageous action to ensure viable communities throughout the country. However, this does not mean that we can say that we have now solved the challenges of the municipal sector: the cost growth is strong, there are increasing recruitment problems in care and school, in too many municipalities, the development of economic activity is idle, areas such as youth, leisure and culture are still balancing posts when budgets are to be nailed, and population decline is still real in municipalities that have had population growth as their top target for several years. In the Center Party, we are committed to giving municipalities great freedom to solve their welfare tasks. It is provided that the municipalities show the will to think new, to cooperate across the municipal boundaries, to apply new technology and not to do things the way it has always been. The challenges of the municipal sector are not solved through the economy alone, but through innovation, cooperation and pragmatism. Society is developing rapidly, and I am becoming more and more uncertain as to whether the municipal structure of my home country is optimal in addressing the challenges of the future. I think this is going to be a big and necessary debate in the future - a debate that must go local, and not least be decided locally. Regardless of this, I am convinced that the promise made by the Government for the municipalities over the last three years has resulted in the municipalities having a surplus to carry out development work to a greater extent than before. That is what must be the country's foremost role in municipal policy, namely to create a framework that ensures that all municipalities are motivated to develop for the benefit of their citizens, and to build together a good and modern welfare society. Here, the government has arranged for just that. Now it's up to the municipalities to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1077	I have followed the debate with interest. I have recorded that the tone among the representatives of the government parties in this debate is more subdued than it has been before. I think it is good that the troubleshooting, with some exceptions, is gone. I am disappointed, however, at the Council of State, which in its reply to one of the representatives was unable to avoid - and that is against better knowledge - talking about the hunger feeding of the municipalities by the previous government. I had hoped, since the government has now been sitting for nearly three years, that it -- and not least the Council of State -- had understood more, come up with better thoughts and stopped giving such a false picture of the previous government. It is a reality that both the Council of State and the President-in-Office have today removed some facts. First of all, you choose not to talk about the time before the Bondevik government, for example. when the Labour Party's Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen was Finance Minister - the interest rate was sky high, at least up to 8 p.m., and the situation in the municipalities was very difficult. I myself was a municipal government politician in Skien throughout the 1990s. We cut away 100 teaching positions in a medium-sized municipality. It's pretty dramatic. It was under changing governments, but it says a little bit about things having to be seen in a time perspective. So both Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa chooses to say something about 2005, the last year of the Bondevik government. Then the Bondevik government, with Erna Solberg as the municipal minister, had systematically built up the municipal economy for four years. The economy in the country was on top, and the interest rate was record low. Under these favourable conditions, this government put in place - according to solid election promises, which created sky-high expectations in the municipal sector. When the government took over, it came to the table, and it gave the municipalities a good boost in the first year. But then what? Now what? What's the status? I think I have heard that in today's debate: the municipalities have many challenges - the costs are greater than the revenues, the way ahead is far from as simple as the government parties went to elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1088	Today, the statement from Soria Moria meets the reality in the main hall. Like me, many of the country's citizens woke up to a very clear message this morning from the country's municipal minister at the NRC: Cancel all thoughts about developing better and new services - a clear message to the citizens of the country's municipalities about the financial framework for 2009. At the same time as millions and billions run into the state treasury, the message to the citizens of the municipalities is that it becomes “tangling”, to say it as the representative Hansen. I'm afraid there's going to be both tension and pain in the municipal sector in 2009. One of many reasons why economic space is reduced is that we have a government with a government record in interest rate increase. The proposal of the Sørheim Committee for a new income system has been addressed in the proposal. That proposal hit Norway's second largest city, Bergen, hard. It is perceived as punishment for being an engine in the value creation of the West. It's unacceptable, and it creates contradictions between parts of the country. This has to be changed. Several speakers have pointed out that municipalities are quite different, but it is equally full that they face quite similar challenges in some important areas. One of the main responses from the Progress Party, in addition to using a state-owned single-price financing, is that we also need to look at the construction side, on the construction side, and we need to find mechanisms and instruments that make us use the money smartly. We've partly done that. There has been agreement in Stortinget on the upgrading package for school buildings. It's unfortunately stopped after we've reached 15 billion. It is true that interest rates are served above the State budget, but there is still a great need to upgrade school buildings. So it's incomprehensible not to carry it on. But what's my point in this context is that there's a broad consensus about the mechanism -- about the mechanism. The Progress Party has proposed - and once again proposes - that we have similar arrangements for both the municipal road network and the municipal road network. There's a lot of catching up. The need is enormous. The county road network is the secondary road network, but that's where the value creation starts and ends - in the transport chain. We proposed in the state budget for the current year that we should receive such a package of measures for municipal and county roads. We were alone about it. All the parties rejected it. We are now proposing it again in the revision, which we are going to deal with on Friday - 1 billion to county roads - but unfortunately we are now on our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1100	When a new income system is adopted, it should perhaps be expected that the system would provide a so-called fair distribution, a distribution of funds that enables all municipalities to provide good services in health and care, social services, school and growth - in the same way. Unfortunately, this is not the case today, nor will it be the case with the new income system. I can refer to Østfold, which is - and still will be - a state where the municipalities get little free money at their disposal, and where property taxes are used in order to preserve completely fundamental welfare goods. It is also the state which, together with Vestfold, has the lowest hospital coverage – not because the elderly in these counties do not need a sick home place in the same way as others, but simply because it is a misallocation of funds that makes these municipalities unable to care for the inhabitants in the same way as other municipalities. Not all sick people in this country receive equivalent treatment. While there has been a strong focus on the distribution of funds among health businesses, providing equivalent health services in municipalities is not the same interest and commitment. Now it's 90 pst. health services are provided in municipalities and municipalities are increasingly receiving heavy care. Without an income system that ensures that the money follows the patient, inequalities in the provision of health will be accentuated in the coming years. It is also the case that psychiatry drugs are now to be included in the framework grant. It was a pleasure to hear that the Christian People's Party is joining forces with the Advance Party to propose that these funds continue to be earmarked. It turns out - and has been shown many times before - that at the moment when money is included in the framework grant, the offer is weakened. This is particularly serious in the care sector. We get big tasks in the years to come - there are increasing numbers of elderly people, more and more people in need of care for which the municipality is responsible, and hospitals are also planning shorter bedtime. It is therefore quite strange that no more parties are now starting to think that the money has to follow the patient in order for us to get a coherent and good offer. More and more municipalities seem to have to introduce property taxes - not because they want more money to route to anything that is pleasant and convenient, but simply because they have so poor incomes that they are unable to maintain a school offer or a health and care service properly. Could it not be that the poorest municipalities, those who may have the lowest income, have to impose property taxes in order to maintain completely basic goods for their inhabitants? I heard the Workers' Party representative Svein Roald Hansen talk about the times of flu in Fredrikstad. I can tell you that the inhabitants of Fredrikstad were far more concerned about the low health care coverage and the legacy of a labor party-driven municipality over many years - a municipality with the highest property tax in the country and the lowest health care coverage in the country. I hope that more people will look at the distribution of income in a completely different way from what is adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1117	I must first comment on Mr Giltun's comments. Eastfold is one of the states that serves the conversion we do in relation to corporate taxes and stronger income balancing. Every municipality in Eastfold is serving on it. Therefore, it is strange to read in the statement that the Progress Party believes that a larger proportion of the corporate tax should go to the municipalities, not a smaller proportion. All the municipalities in Eastfold will tap on it. So there's a direct inconsistency between what's in the setting and what Giltun says. What the government is now doing is improving the income opportunities of the municipalities of Eastfold, not the opposite. If the Progress Party takes advantage of an increase in the share of corporation tax, the municipalities of Østfold will come out worse. So the words from the pulpit and the words in the ballot stand in direct contradiction. That is what has been a little paradoxical throughout the debate today. The representative Thomsen, also from the Advancement Party, showed that the district councillor in Hordaland was so concerned that he had to cut. I get that. But what would have been the consequence if the Progress Party had got a pass on its proposal last year, with a cut of over $1 billion to the county councils? Would the cut be bigger or smaller then? Of course, it would get a lot bigger. What's a little amazing when you sit and follow along in the debate and know the history of several parties, and know what the Progress Party proposed in last year's budget, is that they complain that it's cut this year, when we proposed 1 billion more - for once we suggested more - to the county councils. Nevertheless, the representative of the Progress Party comes to the Chamber and sits down over the scheme, a scheme which, with their proposals, would have been even worse. Then the representative Holmberg is out saying that Kleppa and Vedum are not afraid to talk about the year 2005. I'd like to talk about the year 2005 if you like. But I don't think that's very desirable from a right-hand point of view, because if you look at the number of people employed in the healthcare sector in 2005, it was a real drop. There's a little bit of disagreement in the setting about how many there were, but in the proposition, it's estimated a real decrease of 1600. Then there was a government change, and now we have had a real rise in 2006 and 2007 of 11,000 annual works. When one has had a real decline in the number of annual care and care jobs in the municipal sector in 2005, one cannot boast that one has had a net operating surplus of 3.6 pst. - it's just a technical way to calculate the profits of municipalities. The most important thing is which tasks the municipalities do. And so in 2005, there was a real decline in health and care, one of the most important sectors. This government has been given a welfare promise - there are 11,000 more annual shifts in care, there are 26,000 more children who have kindergarten, there are several hours in primary school, and municipalities have a better foundation, although there are still major challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1128	The Christian People's Party welcomes the changes adopted today. At almost all points, we agree with the Government that a greater redistribution is to be made. For us, it's not about what my municipality or my county serves on one or another scheme, but it's about what's fair. And at least what's fair is that one has the same quality of welfare services in all municipalities throughout Norway. So we can do it in different ways. Most of today's conversions support the Christian People's Party, because it evens out incomes - from those who have much, to those who have less. Still, the tax-rich municipalities have a lot of money left and above average. But anyway-- although we're satisfied with the most, there's a couple of things I want to point out especially, which I hope the Council of State will take along. I have said it before, and I repeat it: if one does not increase the free income in addition to what the Government has proposed, by approx. NOK 1.5-2 billion, one will not get any escalating -- one will not get any increased economic space; one will only cover the increased costs that exist. So one will go straight ahead: the same moderation as a man for 2008, will also apply for 2009. I encourage the Council of State to look at the possibility of increasing the free income somewhat, to give room for action, to provide opportunities for increased quality in school and care for the elderly. And then I'll ask the Council of State to think about mental health. Both the Mental Health Norway and the National Association of Psychiatric Relatives have said that we need to look at the evaluation of the escalation plan for mental health before we finish the important work it is to clarify and establish a predictable policy in this area. Think about it: it's possible to postpone, like you've done for kindergartens. And in the case of kindergartens: I want to ask the government to work for a funding scheme that will ensure that we still have both private kindergartens with good quality and municipal kindergartens - and full kindergarten coverage. That SV’s representative Rolf Rikvam says that he trusts local politicians more than those who are signed, is okay, but the private kindergartens are uncertain about what funding they can count on in the future. They need predictability, so that they can contribute to full child-care coverage - not just for one year or two, but in the long term. If one takes along the points that the Christian People's Party is raising now, I think the 2009 arrangement could be even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1143	There is no doubt that today we are experiencing government parties that are on the wane in relation to last year's debate and the debate before that. It is quite clear that here there is a government and government party that is in a completely different place from what they were in the previous two years during the corresponding debate. I think it's interesting to start with Svein Roald Hansen's input into the payroll: if the municipalities go beyond the payroll framework adopted in Stortinget, it's the municipality's own problem. Then I can ask back - and it's going to be exciting to see: when you get a strike, is it that then the government is going to make it compulsory to pay because you have a completely different salary level in the municipal sector than you do in other sectors? I am a little pleased to see that this government is going to deal with strikes and impose compulsory pay in the care sector, in the school sector and elsewhere where there is a massive strike, because the municipal sector is going to have a much lower wage settlement than in the state sector and not least in the private sector. It can be exciting when this government is going to deal with all the strikes in the payroll, maybe the next spring. But then, what this is actually about, is that this government and several representatives who have been on the pulpit, are beating their chests and saying that we are so good and do so much good. But it doesn't help the local government when the interest rate increases run into buckets and buckets. Because that's what happens to the municipal sector. I think we've had 16 or 17 interest increases since this government took over, a government that was going to make sure that there were no interest increases for people most and for the municipal sector, not least, that are struggling with a lot of debt. In addition, we have had a wage and price increase that has not been compensated for in relation to the expenses that have been incurred. Then it doesn't help to hit the chest and say that we're good, and that we've never given more money to the local government sector. It does not help the local government sector. When the net becomes less than what you had before you got the so-called new, fresh money, it helps finely little. Because that's the way it is in the municipal sector that it's in the private economy, that it's the net, that's what you're left with, that actually means something about how much you can spend. Then I also want to get into the effects of the new income system for three municipalities in Telemark - Nome municipality, Bø municipality and Sauherad municipality. Bø kommune is located between the municipality of Sauherad and the municipality of Nome. The difference is that with the new income system, the municipality of Bø loses, which is a municipality with positive development, which is a regional engine, and which really pushes on, 1.5 million. kr, while the other two municipalities, located right next door, serve on the new income system and have a negative trend in population growth. So the municipality that does what you say, and what you're concerned about, that the districts are going to get on the track, that we are going to prevent the relocation from the municipalities in the districts, is being punished with the income system of this government. I think it is interesting that the rapporteur in the municipality of Bø has also asked the other parties to make contact in order to know how things actually are in the real world out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1154	When one tries to get through all the words from the opposition and looks at the reality after one has heard all this criticism of the local economy, one sees that the matter is that there is quite a broad consensus in the Committee on the Framework presented by the Government, and that has also actually been the case earlier in this period. The Christian People's Party could wish for a little more money, but the most interesting thing I think is to be able to see that the Right now has gone from most of its tax promises. It's totally okay for me. I think it's a sympathetic move! It's tricked, because welfare is more important, and thus also has Right Money to be able to join our framework. That's good, for the community economy and for well-being. There are many who could want more money. We could wish that, we who are particularly concerned with the municipal welfare offer, and citizens and municipal politicians could wish that. But we're also all concerned with road and track, that hospitals will get the money they need, and we're occupied with many sectors that are important. That's why we have to have a plan that balances. Then there are still many municipalities that have challenges. But an important reason why many municipalities have challenges is the differences in income between municipalities, and that's exactly what we're dealing with. So the decisions that are taken today greatly contribute to a better everyday life for many municipalities. The party of progress lives a little bit in its own world, or in its own fiscal binge -- a binge of right has guaranteed that they won't go into. It is also clearly demonstrated today that the money is loose in the Progress Party, because in answer to my question in the line change today, so vips, Per-Willy Amundsen went up billions to a new compensation scheme, for the loss of property tax. I find it interesting that the Progress Party will present Norwegian municipalities with property tax. Or I'll say it this way: if there are any people out in Kommune-Norway who don't have property taxes, and who hope or believe that Siv Jensen will be the new prime minister, hurry to get property taxes in place, so you're guaranteed a share in this gold-plated compensation scheme that was launched with fire and bram here today. There's a call, because you never know here in the world, sail if I hope it won't go so wrong in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1165	I'll let Hagebakken's posts pass in silence. I have a comment on the representative of Gullvåg, who stood up here and raked down on Oslo and the municipal services that Oslo offers to its inhabitants. It's strange then, that more and more people want to move to this city, and then it's kind of interesting to see that the Advance Party and the Right win choices by choice. Then you can wonder if the voters have seen anything other than the one that Gullvåg has observed from his high horse in here in the staging room. But I was going to talk a little bit about the Sørheim committee. Nobody in this room discusses the premise or mandate of the Sørheim Committee that increased municipal services will stop the flow of migration to central struts and larger population centres. So this means that it hasn't worked yet. It has been tried the same year after year, and the flow of migration has actually increased. So it's not certain that people move from the smaller and smaller municipalities because books are not enough in the library, or because there is not enough water in the pool, or because you want a better or larger concert hall or cultural house. Maybe this isn't the main reason why people move out of the small municipalities -- there might be completely different reasons. Maybe they move because they want to study, maybe they move because they fall in love and get married, maybe they move to larger population centers because those there can get a job, not just one job, but with the possibility of switching and after a few years could go to another job. Such diversity of opportunities does not exist, and will never exist, in small municipalities. But the Sørheim Committee has forgotten to discuss that issue. You think, then, that by taking from the places where people want to live, and giving to the places where people don't want to live, there's more diversity and more people in pig-grown areas. The party of progress doesn't believe in that medicine. It's been tried years after, but it doesn't work, and it's not going to work this time, no matter how much they want to take from the big population centers. Oslo, which has gradually faced major challenges - challenges that governments post-government have imposed on Oslo, in terms of 107 000 non-Western immigrants, which represent a huge, high cost in almost all of our social institutions. Oslo is doing it for now, but you want to take even more from Oslo. You stick your head in the sand and later like these challenges don't exist, and you ask Oslo politicians to clean up. It's unworthy. The Progress Party has a different solution, with unit-price financing, that Per-Willy Amundsen has been in. It will address the basic welfare needs of municipalities. Then the municipalities get to have the tax level they want themselves, and you get to give the municipalities the offers that are needed so that the tax goes to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1176	Several speakers have spoken in the debate about the views of the Progress Party on unit-price financing and state funding for a number of tasks that are now entrusted to municipalities both to organise and to finance. On that occasion, I would like to quote from an article in Senior, a magazine for the senior cause, on June 3. An article entitled «The financing of the care of the elderly must be implemented» reads as follows: «The rapporteur, Mr Kjell B. Hansen, and the head of the Health and Care Committee, Mr Dag Haakon Henriksen, in the municipality of Ringerijke, agree with the senior case, the financing of the country's nursing home must become a matter for Government and Storting. [[Ap]] [[H]] A large number of Norwegian municipalities are unable to finance a reasonable offer to the elderly on their own. The senior case encourages other municipalities to tone flags. Norway needs a municipal uprising on behalf of the elderly!’ I agree to that. It is only direct government funding based on the needs of care for the elderly and not on the financial capacity that will ensure the necessary funding. In the case of schools, the book published by Professor Stein Ringen states, ‘Why democracy?’, the following on p. 82 - and it is not a professor who has been closely associated with the Progress Party: ‘School budgets contain economic power. Democratisation of this power can be achieved by moving money from the budgets of the institutions to the parents. Not that the parents could use the money at their own discretion, of course. The money had to be earmarked for school, but distributed in such a way that all parents have the power to manage their share of the school budget. An example of practical implementation can be as follows: Let all schools be payment schools and let all parents pay for children’s schooling. All parents, both rich and poor, are allocated their share of the school budget that they will use to pay for children’s schooling. Let this happen in the form of labeled school tickets. Allow parents the freedom to buy school for their children at the school they choose.’ Thus, more and more than the Progress Party believes that power should be shifted from politicians and bureaucrats to the real users of publicly paid and community-funded services such as hospitals and schools. Then it will be the users who run hospitals and who work in hospitals and schools, have to take into account, and that must be far better. The Progress Party has been saying this for 20 years. We are very pleased that there are now becoming more politicians in other parties at the local level who understand the excellence of the views of the Progress Party, and I am very pleased that Professor Stein Ring in his new book has also recognized the excellence of the Progress Party's piece-price financing, Community-funded services in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1197	The representative Hoksrud mentioned that the government parties were ‘on the waving front’ in this debate. This may be because if you lie too long in the trenches, you don't really see what's going on around you. The government's approach to the municipal proposition is a good piece of work and an important contribution to ensuring the well-being of most people. The first point of the mandate of the Sørheim Committee, which has carried out a separate review of the income system, takes into account the need to review the balancing of income, both on the basis of the objective of an equivalent service offer, the safety net for tax failure locally and nationally, the motivation to increase tax revenue and a single system for balancing tax revenue. There are well-documented differences in income that are the main cause of disparities in the services provided by municipalities. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Committee that the differences in income have been too large. Kongswinger is a municipality and a regional centre. They do not receive regional grants. Besides, it's a great city. The city has the same population in its towns as one of the neighbouring municipalities has in total. Steinkjer municipality in Nord-Trøndelag is also a great city, but it receives district grants, and has been given it for several years. Such a difference should be examined in greater detail. There may also be good reason to consider whether the criteria for regional grants are different, so that they produce unintended effects. Could there be reason to consider whether a regional centre in a district should receive a separate regional development grant? It is recognised that without growth in regional centres there will also be no growth in the region. The Kongswinger Regional Centre has major development tasks in a region that is struggling with a reduction in population and employment. Figures from 2007 show that this city has well $2,300 less at its disposal per year. resident in free income than the average of Kommune-Norway. North Odal and South Odal also have a challenging situation compared to the national average. I am pleased with the Council of State's commitment and commitment to how the income system can create challenges for some municipalities, as she was concerned about in her speech earlier in the debate. The real commitment of the Council of State, together with the remark from the Government Parties and the opposition, except the Advance Party, which asks the Government to follow closely the situation of the tax-weak municipalities in South Norway that do not participate in the district grant, makes me sure that this will benefit these municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1212	It's true, as Tore Hagebakken says, that the right has the same framework for the local economy as the government parties. We're going to continue the bet on the municipalities that we had the four years we were in government. We're going to keep doing that. But there is one thing that must then be said, and that is that the device is very different, and I will come back to that. However, I have to continue where I left off in the previous round, namely with the status today. The big problem is that the government's entry after the election campaign created sky-high expectations in Kommune-Norway. In the first year, politicians believed that the land was flowing with milk and honey. It did so too, but you figured, after all the big elections, that this should continue. That's why there weren't many restrictions. There was not much sober economic debate in the municipalities during the first and second years of this government's period. Now the pipe has a completely different sound, also in the municipalities. I'll mention four points where we look at the status. One is that the municipal sector's share of the total social shock is now on average less than it was under the Bondevik II government. In 2005 - that was when a number of municipalities were not on the ROBEK list and were blacklisted. Now, in 2008, the number of ROBEK municipalities is once again increasing, and the operating results of the municipalities in 2007 are below the target. The fourth point is that municipalities now have large costs related to the increase in costs. Then I must also make a comment on Svein Roald Hansen. I hope he doesn't mean what he says, that this payroll is the responsibility of the municipalities, because I expect every representative in this room to know that the payroll costs are linked to the economic condition of the country, not least the level of interest and other costs. So here one has to look at the big context. I take that as an unthinking statement. So what's the situation in the municipalities really like? We can take Skien, my home municipality, a common medium-sized industrial municipality. Last year the politicians stood up and talked as if the economy would be good for eternity. Today - now - the politicians stand on the city council platform and have to cut down 58 million. kr. There is a municipality that has got nothing more with the new income system, plus/minus very little. So we have to look at the device of the policy being pursued. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1225	It's been a nice debate, and it's kind of funny to listen to the Workers' Party representatives, who try to blame everyone else for an old age care that has never worked well enough -- when you've been proving yourself in power after World War II most of the time. It is also nice to hear another employee party representative refer to the budget agreement they made with the Bondevik II government, where an agreement was reached that allowed municipalities to receive NOK 2 billion more. The same person failed to mention that the Progress Party actually reached an agreement that entered the municipalities more than twice the following year. As of now, we want to grant more to the municipalities, and in the revised national budget now we also want to grant NOK 2 billion more than today's government. Operation in the municipalities takes most of the transfers. Its more a municipality uses on operations, its less free resources. In other words, the municipalities that have overinvested have less free money than others. Then the danger is that there are no funds left for those groups that might need it the most, like the elderly, the school, the drug care and the psychiatry. This is why the Progress Party wants to give priority to ensuring that these groups are adequately funded, so that we get a good school, a good care for the elderly, and enough services in the care of the drug addicts and the psychiatrists. It's not just kindergartens that are important in our society. It is also shown to Larvik, Fredrikstad, one could have shown to Tromsø, Kongsvinger or Oslo. Oslo is e.g. split about the same way as the rest of the country -- in some blue urban areas and some red urban areas, which are again responsible for their respective urban areas. Is it the red or the blue districts that have the biggest problems in Oslo? In the case of progressive party-driven municipalities, they use more in care for the elderly than the average in Norway. It's not always as simple when we know that where the Progress Party has taken over power, it's usually bankruptcy house with large deficits that you've inherited from former workers' party-driven municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1238	I immediately agree with the representative of Tybring-Gjedde that it is not the care of the elderly in Oslo that makes people move to the municipality. It has its completely natural causes. The move to and from the age groups we are talking about here is relatively modest. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark was also obviously struck by the small story that I reported from the care of the elderly in Oslo, and started to talk about freedom of choice immediately. Then my question is: is there a freedom of choice or a lack of freedom of choice that makes older nurturing ladies not allowed to roll up their hair after a shower? Is it the freedom of choice that causes a lot of people to sit in municipal administrative positions and decide on the smallest detail which services should be provided to the individual? On Nøtterøy, where I am a member of the local government, the Right has ruled since the presidency laws saw the light of day in 1837, and this order/execution system has also been established in the care services. That's the same way you do it. There, nurses have also been moved into the offices, where they sit and manage decisions. I have to agree that this is also a form of freedom of choice, but this is political freedom of choice - which the Right and the Advance Party are using. Finally, I am surprised that none of the speakers of the Progress Party in this debate attempt to explain to their Vice-President the desire to reduce the number of Norwegian municipalities by 270. Alternatively, you can explain which 160 municipalities the Progress Party wants to maintain, and which are too small to have municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1255	I want to comment on the new income system. I record that there is a great deal of commitment to this matter, also from members of the Stortinget who are not in the municipal committee. It's natural, because it's an incredibly important thing. It is probably the most important issue for how to develop the community, because it is the municipalities that are the most important in creating well-being in Norway. Therefore, it is good that Stortinget has a great commitment to this matter. But it's also a very difficult case, because Norway is so heterogeneous. I think almost every municipality has its characteristics that one can kind of put on the table: it's special for us, and it's special for us. Either there's a lot of snow, or then too many people move in or out, or whatever it is. That's why it's getting an income system that's 100 pst. Perfect, impossible. It's impossible to achieve, but the goal must be to get it as perfect as possible and strive against it, for one can never get this completely right. I think the government has made a very good proposal for the Storting today, where it has taken as many consideration as possible. I also think the level is very good. There can always be more money in the municipal sector. We, who are in government today, work to ensure that municipalities have good framework conditions all the time, so that we can give all the residents of Norway a good offer. At the same time, we know that there are other parties here in the hall that think tax laws are much more important than spending money, for example. in the municipalities. Finally, I would like to comment on one more point: Ever since I started politics, there has been a fight in the area I come from, Namdalen, because you wanted the same conditions as you have in the areas of Northern Ireland. It's because both experts who have looked at it, and we who live there, see that you have about the same framework conditions, and then it's reasonable that you also get the same conditions for the income system. That is why I would like to congratulate Minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on her proposal that Namdalen should be given the same conditions as Nordland. It'll be very welcome in that area. At the same time, I would like to congratulate the Stortinget on their commitment to it. This is a great day for Namdalen. It's a fight that's been going on for all these years, and finally you're in the game.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1272	I will first thank you for both support and good advice from the Christian People's Party and the Left. A general question here has been: how is the situation in Kommune-Noreg? Then I want the Stortinget to know that it is a work that is very good for the department to have in their assessments at any time, and that is what is done in TBU, Technical Calculation Committee. It is a selection of parties led by Professor Lars-Erik Borge, where both KS, two municipalities and one county municipality, the four most recent departments and the Statistical Central Bureau are represented. The selection takes into account the situation in the local economy and assesses the state of the economy. They submit a report twice a year, and they also come to the consultation meeting between the state and the local government sector. The selection is gathered on the main understanding of the situation in the local economy. It is true that questions relating to cost growth have been inconceivable, but there is no reason to believe that there is a deal about situational understanding. So I find it alarming that the Right Party and the Progress Party today are making a proposal for an information campaign for the challenge right. In the municipal proposition for 2004, the then government and the municipal minister Erna Solberg wrote: ‘For many small and medium-sized municipalities, the use of competitive outsourcing for different reasons is unlikely to lead to a substantial increase in the use of competitive outsourcing. It is therefore reasonable to assume that the gain resulting from the introduction of a genuine right to challenge can be matched by administrative extra work in a majority of Norwegian municipalities.’ There will be no information campaign on our part. I note that the Progress Party today repeats its proposal on price financing, i.e. fewer hands in care and school, more in administration. So finally, when I hear right-wing arguments, I find reason to remind you that Norway was not exactly a poor country in the previous four-year period. In fact, some hands were available that could carry out important welfare tasks at the time. So now we've got more hands in care. The bullet's strong. Where a new cut was discussed before, the local government, following the government change in 2005, was given a lever to bet. This continues. It requires a responsible economic policy. It requires continued prioritisation of Community supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1288	The local elected representatives are, as some have said in the course of the debate, the foundation of our democracy. One of the benefits of having local people elected is that they're better at prioritizing locally than what you're national. They see better what the challenges in their municipality and their place of residence are, i.e. a cost-effective way to spend the money. Today's debate shows that we now have a competition for who gives the most money to the municipalities. This shows that most of us have confidence in the local politicians, that they have the ability to prioritise, and I'm glad that. During this debate, everyone outside the Progress Party has shown a kind of hope and a sense of priority for the municipalities and of local trust. That's good. Then I have to make a few comments at the end of the debate to something the representative Holmberg from the Right said that cannot be contradicted. She raised this with the ROBEK list. I think it's pretty straightforward to go forward that now it's so terrible with the ROBEK list, and that now there are so many who are on their way back in. We see that at the beginning of 2005 there were 118 municipalities on the ROBEK list. Then a horse cure was performed in the municipal sector and many year works were cut, among other things. in the healthcare sector, which resulted in slightly better net operating performance in 2005 than in the previous year. So you were able to get someone out. But in our government period, at the beginning of this year, there were 42 municipalities on the ROBEK list. So there's been a huge decrease in the number of municipalities that need state override under this government, while under the previous government there was an increase. The ROBEK list was introduced in 2001. So there has been a real change of pace thanks to the willingness to prioritize the local government sector. So I think it's interesting to listen to the representative Tybring-Gjedde from the Progress Party, who says that we have to bet on the places where people want to live, implicitly that there are some places where people don't want to live. Then it's just nonsense to spend money on the municipalities that people don't want to live in. Because we want more people to bet and live in the municipality of Eidskog - in my home country - they have received 3.6 million. kr in increased district funds. Grue's got 5.3 million. SEK, Åsnes 6.7 million. kr and Våler 4,6 mill. kr in increased district funds. They've got these funds, so they can run an active policy to get more people to their territory. Then is my question: Does the representative of Tybring-Gjedde think that there is completely wasted money, and will he declare the places as unwanted places for people to live? In that case, it would be interesting to hear it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1299	Just to extend the debate: I want to say to the representative of Gullvåg: he comes up with a single story from Oslo, generalises and bases his entire post, the whole state of Oslo City, on one situation, which of course is unsustainable -- no one can defend that kind of priorities. Of course you don't. The point of Oslo's structure in terms of care for the elderly is that the majority are more satisfied with private solutions than with public solutions. Competition is healthy to stimulate better efforts and service. It's not to save money, but to provide the elderly with better service, and it's been given to the elderly by Oslo, and it's going to be even better in the years to come. The representative of Gullvåg says that there is no one in the Progress Party who dares to talk about municipal mergers. Of course we do. We can talk about community mergers. Today, there are 430 municipalities in a country that has 4.7 million people. All representatives in this room understand that there is no sustainable structure in Kommune-Norway. Everyone knows that the community merger will take place. But no one dares take the debate, for they are alive for populist reasons to lose votes in the municipality that might have to be merged with the neighbouring municipality. That is why the debate is not taking place. The Progress Party is taking this debate. We will have a broad debate in the party, in the debate on the party programme for the next period, and we will use the national meeting for the next year to look at how this might be done, whether one should be lured, tempted or given other offers, so that municipalities want to do so if they agree to be joined with the neighbouring municipality. There's a lot of ways to do this. This government has resigned and considers 430 municipalities of 4.7 million people to be absolutely excellent. To the representative of Slagsvold Vedum: It is such that despite the good intentions of the Central Party for people to live in pig-grown struts in this country, people move to central struts. And then you have a policy that says you don't have to do that, we don't have to do it that way. That's why you have to give even more money, even more services in the pig-grown strips, so that you have all sorts of offers there. So people move anyway. Then you may not have found the reasons why people move. They might move for completely different reasons-- for example. because they want to study. You can't move the university to a small pig-grown municipality somewhere in Norway. That's not possible. So then people move to e.g. Oslo. Then they fall in love there. Then they move to central struts, like Bergen, Stavanger or Oslo, and then they want to live there. There they have a variety of business offerings, etc. which cannot be found in pig-grown bran. Then they get a job -- not just one job created by Innovation Norway, which can be in a pig-headed municipality, but they get a job in private business and want to be there for three-four years. Then they get a job in another private enterprise in the same municipality. They have the diversity they need. That's why people move -- not because of more books in the library.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1308	The attacks on the Progress Party during this debate have mainly run along two lines. One relates to community mergers, and the other relates to unit-price financing. But it is not like the representatives Stroemstad Olsen, Gullvåg and others have tried to present it as, that the Progress Party intends to force a municipal merger. Rather the opposite. We want to start a process, much by Danish model, so that we can move forward in relation to the municipal structure in Norway. So there are 430 municipalities in this country. We have municipalities in Norway that are not able to deliver their own accounts, because they do not have internal competence in the municipalities. It says something about that we have too many municipalities in this country. Providing municipal services has gradually become so complicated and extensive that we need larger units to meet the future. Then we've been attacking on unit-price financing. The representative, Tørersdal, is wondering if we're going to have 430 different types of prices for the different municipalities. The representative Arnesen has taken the opposite approach and says that the district councils are going to lose when everyone is going to get a standard piece price system. None of these representatives are right. We're talking about a differentiated price that's going to take up the different cost differences we have in this diverse country. But there is not one single price for each municipality, it is a system that takes good care of the cost picture. Then the representative tried to make a funny point of my answer to his questions about property taxes. Yes, the Progress Party is against property taxes, but of course we do not intend to introduce any of our own type of compensation scheme when we remove the property tax, but we want to capture it through the general unit price financing system. For today's problem is that a number of municipalities feel compelled to introduce property taxation only in order to provide the completely fundamental municipal services. Then I register that there have been fairly low-level representatives from the government parties today. They have not been as troublesome as they have been on previous occasions when we have discussed the local economy. And I understand why: the government's so-called bet on the municipalities has got a rough end - as an economical stomach pad in a dry municipal swimming pool.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1319	The representative Holmberg has had the word twice before, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1322	I record that the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum still does not see the context and development of the municipal economy when he talks about ROBEK municipalities. So I agree with Inge Ryan that it's probably impossible or at least very difficult to get a hundred percent fair income system. With some adjustments, we would keep today's system, which we think is better. Finally, I would just like to point out two weaknesses in what is now being adopted. One is that the country is now making smaller tax transfers to the municipalities. We would have 50 pst., now it goes down to 45 pst. Then it would be very good if the corporate tax were retained in the municipalities. This would lead to better employment compared to industrial development. It would generate more income that the municipalities could use for welfare. So I regret to register that the government is making the municipalities passive instead of active.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1331	The representative Tørresdal has also spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1334	When we ask questions about the price financing system of the Advance Party, they consider it to be an attack. It was a question I asked, if they wanted a system where there were 430 different prices in the whole country. The question has not been answered. Now I hope that the Progress Party will use the time to explain what they mean by the differentiated system. So they don't mean the same price, they obviously don't think 430 different prices either. What I need to see is this system is explained, where it shows whether you're willing to pay what it costs to have school in Utsira, so that people can live there, whether you're willing to pay for medicine in the Lits, and for services of high quality. Today we have a system that makes it possible to live throughout the country. Will the Advancement Party pay what it costs to maintain the housing pattern we have today? Who's going to pay the price? And who's gonna decide the price?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1341	The representative Amundsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1345	It is possible that I look very unclear. But the answer to the question from the representative Tørresdal was: No, the Progress Party should not have 430 different price financing rates in our system, of course not. But we have to take good care of the different cost components that vary across the whole country, both in terms of geography, in terms of the cost of raising building mass, and not least renting building mass - here property prices vary - etc., etc. What we're concerned about is an equal and good offer across the country, equal municipal services across the whole country. It should actually be a matter of course, but I note that it is only the Progress Party that really stands for it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1350	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3846]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1366	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3848]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1382	No one has asked for the floor. The size has now come to deal with case no. 4 on Agenda No 100. [[Footing, see page 3849]] The cases dealt with here do not have medicinal products outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. Under Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget nevertheless deal with this matter no. - No objections have come against the President's proposal, and that is to look upon as a decree. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4, 5 and 6 are dealt with below one and look at what's agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1426	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three sequences with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five sequences with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1437	The agricultural settlement of the year is in port. It was a good guess - yes so good that the departmental council of Grue characterized it as historic. It doesn't say much, because he's had that job under different regimes for more than 20 years. The agreement appears to St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, Norwegian agriculture and food production. The entire Committee endorses the objective of ensuring a long-term food supply throughout the country and of producing high-quality, safe food. The industry wants long-termity, which will provide many common good, both directly and indirectly. Agriculture is important in our overarching goals of viable rural areas and employment throughout the country. At the same time, farmers and grazing animals are suppliers of cultural landscapes, as we know it on a Norwegian scale. A collective committee type in the configuration: «The Committee will ensure stable and predictable framework conditions for farmers and allow for the same trend in income as others.» I'm assuming that each party will express its point of view. The frame of the agreement this year is $1.9 billion, distributed by $1505 million. SEK at higher commodity prices, 350 million. kr, which increased the state budget in 2009 and 45 million. kr in funds transferred from 2007. The frame should be used to increase the district capacity, i.e. to strengthen the income possibilities for minor use, for example. in Sogn and Fjordane. The increase in the price, as the calculation shows, will be NOK 1 per cent. person per person day(s) There is an increase in the food budget that most of us can live with, which means that we will also have an agricultural policy in Norway in the future - throughout the country. When one takes into account all the common agriculture that gives us, we can stand firm and say, "This was a good idea for all of us." The food industry is happy; it ensures district work places in Norwegian food production. Travel life is happy; the cultural landscape is preserved, not least because of the approach to increasing the production of sheep and bovine meat. Animals shall graze. There are stronger indications that grazing should be real, based on animal welfare. It'll be a smoother transition from box spring to loose. There is a premium for meat-producing animals, while the same farmer can receive a premium for milk production. One may have two production lines, and many empty feathers may be used again. The peasants themselves are pleased with the agreement. It's the first time we have an agreement that's been sent out on evictions, and she gave a loud yes. I must be allowed to thank the whole nutrition committee very much for completing this setting. It was an intense week, with scarce temptations. Farmers have confidence in the red-green. For these three years, the nutrient base has increased by approximately NOK 60000. In the agreement this year, the possibility of adjustment negotiations has been introduced if the price of electricity and fertilisers is greatly increased. It is difficult to calculate parts of the numbering material that form the basis for such an agreement. The international food situation is uncertain. The struggle for food is increasing to an extent. Climate change and crop damage mean that all countries should ensure more production of the nature they provide. Nevertheless, pessimism has turned to optimism. The number of uses that will be generated has been flattened. The need for more investment means is a sign of a threat to the future in the industry. Then it's cleaned up in the milk sector. Single use with quotas below 400000 litres may be rented by neighbours or others in reasonable proximity to exploit capacity. Others do not take the option of closure. One gets more time to surround. A tight labour market contributes to a certain de-scaling, but more efficient means that the number of animals is growing over many productions. The government shall set up a party team to look at the market organisation for eggs and meat. This must have a review of, because the possibilities for increased support in relation to future WTO objectives have been achieved. Norway actively participates in the development of a new WTO agreement and aims to ensure that we also have a living agriculture throughout the country in the future and national food production. The welfare arrangements are strengthened. Important measures are called for by especially younger farmers. It means getting a few days off with the family, or being sure that if you're sick, the trigger comes. The significance of the forest into a new era should be more focused on. This relates to the absorption of CO2 far beyond the emissions of agriculture itself, and to the potential to exploit the forest for biofuels and biofuels. The planting, care and housing of a renewable resource must be intensified. Agriculture is highly focused on emissions, fall ploughing and over-fertilisation. Large amounts are and will be used to map the optimal cultivation form. This government has aimed at increasing organic production to 15 pst. before 2015. It's ambitious, but big and small measures and incentives are going to bring us closer to that goal. This year's agreement gives leadership to the food producers "gilts". The people want more organic offerings. Here is a growth potential that should be exploited by Norwegian producers. It's over time a little resilient to pick up these foods 'world wide'. The trust in Norwegian-produced food is overwhelming. There's a lot of focus on safe food. One has a food surveillance that is on the way up, and that people trust. Action has been taken to address epidemics. We have KSL Materk and many good brand schemes that people feel safe with. It's not every day that we're invited to debate issues in this room that have landed so positively. Even if the requirements of organisations were high, they have an agreement where professionals are happy. But we're going to follow closely - the possibilities and challenges are many, both nationally and internationally. Increasing the output, as we want, also increases the input factor. The opposition sees no change in the Government's agricultural policy. Perhaps the image has been somewhat clearer after all these recordings and copies. What is clear, at least, is that if the Right Party and the Progress Party come to power, there will be no debate on the agricultural agreements in the future. The presence of a business support at the bottom and the changes in the structure of these parts will probably make you feel more like a blue moon day!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1484	In the posts and in the remarks in the setting, the government parties are occupied with the housing in the districts. Among other things, farming is an important part of this. Not everyone agrees. Let me get a quote from an article published online, produced by NTB: ‘Researcher slaughters red-green district policies’. [[NIBR]] Then I just want to ask: is the representative Sigrun Eng in agreement with the researcher from NIBR, or is the researcher wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1494	No, no, no. For the red-green, it is important to see agriculture as an important part and contribute to a district policy that provides both jobs and housing across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1499	The right focusses on having a serious and responsible alternative to today's agricultural policy. It is becoming a constant objection to a number of the processes that the Government is running, that these are not in line with democratic principles. The right is strongly responding to the fact that while the Farmer team had over two weeks to deal with the agricultural settlement, the country's top elected democracy - the Stortinget - only had five working days. The right considers that it is unsustainable to expect the Storting to be able to have a proper management of the agricultural holding with such a short period of time. Does the rapporteur not see that only five working days on such a large and important matter are both irresponsible and very little democratic?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1506	As I said in my post, the deadline was short. But if the right-wing representative works for an intensive period of time only on working days, we use the other days that exist, and then there were twelve. So one could say it's at least layer. It is a difficult and complicated matter in many ways, and one should have absolutely had the opportunity to do a good job of handling the matter. But we've landed well. I must say, in fact, that it would have been strange if we in a democratic country had given out the final protocol before the trial was over and it came from the Council of State and the Government's side. It's a contradiction to what's normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1513	In the notes, the government's party states that in future they will also have 'an active agricultural holding with a varied structure of use throughout the country'. It's a great vision, in line with the vision of the Bondevik II government. This option, which has a high frame, and which is fixed on the first exit, still has a negative, which is that a very large portion of the 1.9 billion are drawn on the target price. There is only a small part that is in the budget. As a result, this will be an advantage for the major users, and the smaller and smaller users will wear out, so this is bad for them. Had the representative Eng really wanted the distribution to be slightly different - that there was more on budget funds, so it would have been easier to fulfill the intentions set out in the comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1522	I actually didn't think that 350 million. kr is exchange money. There are budgetary resources that are used for this. With the device that is, I actually believe that it is a good contribution to the small and smaller use. In addition, some other grips have been made. The tax intake is lowered, so that one gets more possibilities with what's sitting there, because it wasn't used well enough as it was. One has also lowered the requirement for production aid. So the sum of the whole thing is a good handshake for the middle and smaller ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1527	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1531	In the last week before the non-meeting period, the rapporteur, Sigrun Eng, from the Workers' Party, is standing almost on the Stockholm Chair with a cheer, Norwegian flag and horn music and celebrates the government's agricultural agreement and the red-green agricultural policy. I don't think agriculture is going to notice the big difference with previous year's agreements. There have been great expectations of this year's agreement. That is reasonable, given the promises made by the red-green politicians and the Minister for Agriculture. I think the perception among many out there -- and I'm out there hitting a lot of farmers -- is that the red-greens don't deliver in agricultural policy compared to the promises they've made so far in this big time period. There have been no major differences in agricultural policy between Sponheim and Riis-Johansen. The rapporteur says that this year's agreement is the best of times, and refers to the Ministries of the Ministry of Agriculture. I would like to remind you of the public debate that has been taking place around this agricultural agreement, where relatively competent people who have participated in many negotiations on agricultural agreements in the past, break down the figures in the agreement of the year, and claim that the opposite is the case. This also shows the weakness of a system such as the agricultural agreement. This year there has also been a strange admission to the agricultural negotiations. There was an unusually high demand from the peasant organizations. The rapporteur-in-chiefly described it. There have been threats to action. Whether they've been real or not, we haven't seen anything else, but at least I think it's the agriculture that has the most to lose in starting action. Nor do I believe that the agricultural organizations, which are departments in the Central Party and in the SV, would have initiated some action against the current government. The centre party has threatened to leave the government, and there were not so many who took the horse dealers seriously when it came to it. The result of this year's agricultural agreement is that there was agreement on something more than half of the requirement. When the contract documents were to be signed, we saw pictures of the director of the Bondelag, Undheim, and the secretary-general, Milli, who smiled from ear to ear as if they had won a tipping. Then you could ask yourself, how really was the requirement? And is it the case that agricultural organisations should be granted almost half of the requirement regardless of their requirements? Then it's going to be fun next year's agricultural negotiations. But it is obvious that the person put by the Farmers' Team in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has delivered in respect of the job he has received from the management of the Farmers' Team. The dissenting vote of the members of the organisations following the adoption of the agreement shows that the involvement of the agricultural agreement is not really that great. About 40 pst. by the members of the Farmers' Association took the trouble to vote. That's not a very large number. This year we have seen that the Centre Party no longer receives fresh funds from the budget. We have now moved on to the price mechanism, which is where consumers have to take the bill. It has been the simplest for the Workers' Party, instead of bringing fresh funds over the budget. It has been argued that due to the international price rise of agricultural products and inputs, the price mechanism had to be used and the Norwegian target prices set. And everyone can understand that in a market where the underlying costs increase, one would want to be able to increase prices in the other direction. But that's not how this system works. Here it is not a common market system of supply and demand that works; here it is a policy defined target price system. The question is, what happens if international commodity prices go down again? Is it, then, that the Norwegian target prices will be reduced again, so that the ratio of international prices to Norwegian prices is the same? No, it's not like that. It's because here you want to put the market mechanisms out of play, that the organizations and the Central Party are fighting so hard for the target price system. Therefore, consumers and industry have to take the costs, and they are not represented in the negotiations. The question is also, how much more does the farmer get? NOK 10,000 more this year and NOK 16 000 next year is not large. And we see in the nations today that diesel prices have increased considerably only since the agreement was concluded. I think when we come to next year's negotiations, the relationship between agriculture and other groups is at the level that it was when the agreement was signed this year. I therefore believe that more and more questions will be asked in the future about whether an agricultural agreement is an appropriate instrument of agricultural policy. As the position shows, the Progress Party wants major reforms in agricultural policy. It takes too long to address all the issues here, but there is a significant need for rationalisation, simplification and the reduction of barriers in agricultural policy. As we have seen recently in the discussion on price fixing on agricultural properties, Norwegian agricultural policy is helping to put the market out of play. You also put the farmer in a difficult situation by the fact that values that have been worked out over many generations are almost taken away from the farmers, especially if they want to leave the industry to do something else. The Progress Party believes that the ongoing structural development needs to be accelerated, and we need to get units that are considerably more robust. We believe that in the future we will have a two-tier agriculture with large volume producers in cereals, pigs, eggs, chicken, milk and cattle and smaller niche productions focused on a more local market and on cooperation with the tourism industry. There will also be room for those with special productions to find a market abroad. The Tunet system is a very good system, which should be developed further. This deserves a completely different thinking and willingness to modernise than we have today. We have also recently had the bureaucracy debate, it is as firm as it has done, but it would have been desirable that the government also had it more in focus. In today's nations, we experience the following: Right Torbjørn Hansen states that it is pathetic and comical when Asmyhr claims that we have something in common in agricultural policy. It is quite alarming that the Right chooses to have such an approach to a possible future partner, for all who can read see that in this setting the Right and Advance Party appear as nearly Siamese twins in agricultural policy. You almost have to use magnifying glass to see the difference between the Right and the Advance Party, and it's obvious that it's only Torbjørn Hansen in this hall who doesn't see the fact. I am addressing the proposals on which the Progress Party is either with other parties or alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1567	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1572	In the setting, the Progress Party expresses great concern for future Norwegian agriculture and my actors have had little hope for the future, and that the confidence in the Government's agricultural policy is at a low level. An image of the pawn caught in a web is drawn from which it is impossible to escape. The claim is that agriculture is run by bureaucrats who regulate down to the smallest detail. If that's what the Progress Party says, doesn't the Asmyhr representative find it strange that the answer in the dissent did not contradict this terrible system? Or does the Advancement Party think that the peasants don't understand their own best?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1579	As the son of a farmer, I know that farmers are reasonable and rational people. But it is quite clear that there are now major questions about the current agricultural policy. It's just to take a walk out and visit some farmers. We also see that there is an increasing number of farmers joining the Progress Party because they no longer believe in agricultural policy. Representative Eng comes from Buskerud, where this with protection is a big deal. These are things that provoke big farmers. It's quite obvious that the farmers are trapped in a network. Norwegian agriculture is the world's most regulated agricultural industry. There is an infinite number of laws and regulations and a code and bureaucracy that are missing. We have just dealt with a matter in which it is obvious that there are nearly 7 000-8 000 bureaucrats in agriculture. [[President clubs]] That is a figure that the representative, Mr Eng, should also respond to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1586	The President is asking for respect for the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1589	It is true, as the representative Asmyhr says, that there has been some curvature in the nations as to what he perceives is a community between the Right and the Advance Party in the agricultural policy. First, I would like to state that it is very positive that the Right and the Advance Party are united on important reforms relating to property rights, related to simplification and related to red tape. But it is still, in my view, a fundamental difference, when we see the Committee on Progress's halving of means of transfer to agriculture, and when we see the total unwillingness of the Progress Party to maintain geographical measures that ensure active agriculture throughout the country. What you think about the objectives for agriculture is important. My question is whether the Progress Party agrees with the following objectives for agriculture: to maintain Norwegian food production, to maintain cultivated land in Norway and to maintain active agriculture throughout the country. If that's the case, we see a very positive reorientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1598	If Torbjørn Hansen has followed so far in this great period, he will not find it surprising that I answer yes to that question. It is quite clear that the Progress Party wants to maintain Norwegian food production. We want to maintain agriculture all over the country, and we want to maintain production. It is also in today's setting. It's a note from a majority that the Progress Party is in and the Right is not in, which also mentions these points. So it's strange that Torbjørn Hansen asks us questions about it. But I understand that Torbjørn Hansen, who represents a party that is now struggling on the counter, is trying to distance itself from the Progress Party -- I understand that -- to get on the track. But now it is soon time that Torbjørn Hansen also recognizes his origins in agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1605	What struck me when I heard Mr. Asmyhr's statement and read the opinion of the Committee was the word propriety. What the Progress Party characterises as modernisation, conversion and reform, I will characterise as liquidation and furrowing. In all other contexts, the Progress Party is talking about predictability, about the safety of nutritionists. Tens of thousands of Norwegian families have taken on debt obligations and are committed under current framework conditions. The Progress Party halves support over the State budget - DKK 6 billion net. They want to remove customs protection, remove all structural measures and ‘remove all production restrictions’ to quote from the Progress Party programme. Do you think it's decent and that it won't lead to a crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1610	Of course, the Progress Party will not do anything that upsets Norwegian agriculture. However, there is reason to ask questions about the current agricultural policy, such as: Apart from Moe, which has led to thousands of families in Norway having had to stop their farming. But we're going to leave it at this point. I see far Away Moe as a bit of a novelty, a bit of a fresh breath in the agricultural policy of the Centre Party. Among other things, the representative wants to remove the price regulation for agricultural properties. It's positive. The Party wishes to introduce a number of positive instruments, such as: removing price regulation in order to bring in new optimism and drive agriculture, so that young people, such as Mr. Borten Moe and myself, will invest in farming in the future. But to call the policies of the Progress Party indecent - it's just to ask all the voters who vote in the Advance Party, if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1619	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1622	This year the Economic and Social Committee has had five working days to deal with the agricultural situation. For some sectors of Norwegian business, five days to discuss the framework conditions would fortunately be sufficient, but for agriculture, with over DKK 20 billion in support, a variety of policy objectives, a formidable amount of regulation and instruments, this is an unsustainable political process. I want to describe it as an undemocratic arrangement. The government has probably made record in the use of the Stortinget as a turning point in agricultural policy. Furthermore, this system operates in such a way that the Government has concluded an agreement between the Government and two trade organisations. Therefore, amendments to this are considered a breach of contract. When we come to the budget procedure for the autumn, changes to the agricultural agreement will be a breach of previous decisions. In other words, the size should not interfere much with agricultural policy, and the government parties have also blocked the Right's proposal for a separate large-scale report on agriculture. Norway is the only country in the world that has such a negotiating system. The right will replace the agricultural operation with a system of consultation between the Government and the agricultural organisations and a regular budgetary procedure. We propose this in the vote and will vote against this year's settlement on a principle basis. This does not mean that the Right will remove all the instruments contained in the agricultural agreement. We are behind many of the objectives of agricultural policy. The most important thing for the Right is to maintain current food production, to ensure active agriculture throughout the country and to preserve the unique Norwegian cultural landscape. With regard to the arrangement on the settlement of the year, it is special this year that 80 pst. the increase comes as a price withdrawal against the consumer. I noticed the leader of the VG on 4 June, that ‘it should have been the whole population of Norway who had the opportunity to vote on the result’. In many ways you can agree with that. The effect of settlement for a family of four is not negligible. The government uses a mechanical model that gives an impact of approx. NOK 1500 per year. family. However, the main organisation of the trade and service industries believes that the real impact will be between 3000 and 3500 kroner for such a family. This has a particular impact on families with a weak economy and comes to the top of 15 interest increases, high fuel costs and rising prices of other goods. In other words, this is not a measure to eliminate poverty in Norway, for those who had to remember that part of the Soria Moria adventure. The food industry evaluated the situation with rising food prices internationally in a completely different perspective. The industry wanted to use the opportunity to balance the gap between the situation in Norway and elsewhere in the Nordic region. For the food industry, with this clarification, we are giving ourselves a unique opportunity to strengthen competitiveness. The right is concerned that the agricultural policy must facilitate the farmer as a self-employed person. The focus must be shifted from a debate on annual income statements for farmers to a debate on framework conditions for an important industry in Norway. Right will have a more forward-looking agricultural policy and provide farmers with increased opportunities for value creation through deregulation, simplification, enhanced ownership and greater opportunities to establish a forward-looking agriculture. We need to focus more on the policy objectives for agriculture and less on the number of uses and the number of annual works. The Council of State stated, as it was known in 2005, that any abandoned use was a personal defeat. This is a dangerous perspective in agricultural policy. The government itself notes that 1 400 uses will be discontinued in 2008, without preventing solid doses being self-inflicted in the year’s debate on agricultural production. It is interesting to look at the statistics for departure in use and annual work after 2000. It is quite clear from the statistics that the take-off was the largest in 2003, followed by a gradual decrease in 2005, 2006, 2007 and so on in 2008. In other words, the reduction in take-off, which has been the alleged proof of a change in agricultural prices by the government parties, was well under way before the policy of this government came into effect. The proposal shows that Norwegian agriculture is still dominated by small-scale units of use. In 2007, the average use of milk production had 18.5 cows — an increase from 14 cows in 1999. The government estimates that the average increase is 19.5 cows in 2008 and that the increase is one cow per day. years. This shows that agriculture has a potential for efficiency improvement and a significant shift. It is very interesting to meet farmers who have invested in cooperatives and larger single use that are several times larger than the average, with milk robot and modern equipment, and who still talk about expansion further. I think we need more such farmers, and that we have to put away the National Romantic Dream of the Minister of Agriculture on the small Norwegian population. It is worth noting that there is virtually no link between the volume of food production, the volume of area cultivated and changes in the number of uses and annual work. The change is taking place without particularly affecting the central and important objectives of the agricultural policy. The right will facilitate a more forward-looking agricultural policy. Such developments will provide larger units, more on a full-time basis and lower levels of subsidies, but the basis for increased income for individual farmers. It is necessary to achieve a more professional agriculture with more robust actors and a lower need for subsidies. For the Right, however, it is absolutely central that this is done within the framework of today’s scheme, with active agriculture throughout the country. Farmers must be given the right of ownership back to their own farm and land. This is extremely important at a time when migration, sales and initial investment are the trend. It is pointless that in 2008 agriculture should be the only sector in Norway with an out-of-date, old-fashioned, state-regulated approach to farm prices. It is almost absurd that when the seller and purchaser of a farm have negotiated and agreed on a price, the state should go in and adjust that price. This arrangement means that many farmers do not get paid what the farm is worth, if they have to leave the industry. It's 1 400 that's going to go out of business in 2008. Unique values in houses, locations, fields and forests are therefore cheap when the price is strongly adjusted. While people who own ordinary houses have been given a huge increase in value in recent years, the Central Party - which governs agricultural policy in this big age period - wants farmers to sit back as an economic subclass with publicly devalued property values. This is not just a serious intervention, it is totally destructive also as a business policy measure. No one wants to sell below market prices, and therefore many are sitting on the fence instead of dropping new owners at, and instead of facilitating new investments on the site. Nor will anyone invest large amounts in a farm if they know that the farm is going through a price adjustment some years in time. The idea of price regulation of farm use has failed and must be abolished as soon as possible. We record it as quite positive that some central parties have engaged violently in a single, profiled case in Akershus. This is going to be a little bit pathetic. I think the centrists should have been more concerned about how price regulation affects normal farming around the country. There is no doubt that there is a significant potential for simplification and red tape in agriculture. The government is blocking a debate on agricultural bureaucracy, while student tasks estimate that this has a price of DKK 4 billion every year. It confirms the need to think new. Simplification will reduce public expenditure and make everyday life easier and more profitable for the farmer. The right also reiterates the proposal to remove the ban on division in the soil law, in order to give farmers better opportunities to create values for their own use. We also want to remove the obligation to live, which, like price regulation, is a heavy interference in ownership. I believe that it is a short conclusion that ownership must be deprived of the farmer, only because he receives government grants to produce public goods. I have recorded that there is an effort being made by the government parties, and also by the Progress Party, to put the Right and the Advance Party in the same booth in the agricultural policy. I understand the strategy, because of course it is demanding for the Government to have a serious and responsible alternative from the Right in the agricultural policy. We are pleased with all those who support the Right Agricultural Policy, but I would like to stress that there is a difference between a forward-looking modernisation and a drastic conversion of agriculture. If you measure the policy in crowns and ears, it is sad to note that the Right is closer to the Center Party than to the Advance Party. In addition to proposals for changes in geographic instruments, there are significant differences in civil society. To the extent that remarks, playoffs and fries in the nations carry an offer for a change of course, I will be the first to welcome this. Today's agricultural policy needs a serious alternative with great ambitions and a beating heart for Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian farmers. With regard to the Government's arrangements for this settlement, I notice that there has been more stimulation to economies of scale than before. Price withdrawals are not a good consumer policy, but they are a premium for greater use. The same applies to the proposal to rent milk quotas. I think it is in isolation positive that the government now sees the need for conversion, even though this is not exactly going on with seven-mile steps. Finally, I would like to mention that the Right has promoted a Document No. 8 proposals to terminate the market organisation for pigs. In the setting up of the agricultural holding, the majority, all but the members of the Progress Party, have shown that a wide-ranging selection is being set up to look at the market organisation with the aim of no longer implementing market regulation measures. The right will therefore await this work and attach the proposal to the Protocol. We are also discussing the reindeer management agreement today, and I would just like to mention our proposal for a notification on the reindeer management industry, which is particularly necessary. I would like to address the proposals that the Right promote alone or together with others in the three positions we are discussing in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1680	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1685	On 11 June this year we can read in the newspaper Østlandingen that the representative Torbjørn Hansen slaughtered the Progress Party's agricultural policy. He says: ‘In my opinion, the agricultural policy of the Progress Party is totally irresponsible and will result in a breakdown of agriculture in Norway. The type of policy is totally out of date for a value-conservative batch.’» For us who aim to have active agriculture throughout the country, I have to say that in itself there was a positive reading. But then we see in the setting that in a whole of 19 notes, the Right and the Advance Party write together. It must be paradoxical that the Right on one side is very busy getting away from the Progress Party, while on the other hand they stick together in the setting - as the representative of Kielland Asmyhr calls it, as 'Syamese twins'. I would like to ask the representative, Hansen, how to harmonise the position and appointment in the newspaper Østlandningen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1697	It is true that the timing bears the mark of quite a consensus between the Right and the Advance Party in relation to some modernisation measures. It is particularly about the ownership of the farmer, and it is about red tape and simplification. On the other hand, what is said very little about in the setting is the level of transfers to agriculture. The progress party has a tradition of cutting about. 6 billion kroner per night in connection with the government budget work. We believe that although it is right to go for a lower level of agricultural transfers, the type of halving of support schemes - and the subsidy schemes are a dominant item of income for agriculture - will result in a furor, almost whatever alternative agricultural policy is implemented in such a time perspective. This means that even though the number of words and suggestions is very common, there are in particular two fundamental actions on the part of the Progress Party, namely a halving of support and the removal of geographical measures, which means that we still point out that there is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1706	Like the previous replicator, I have also noticed that the Right Public claims that they are closer to the Center Party than to the Progress Party in Agriculture Policy. I see the representative is nodding. I've been bothered to read through the Right Agricultural Policy Programme today. I can well say that if there were any negotiations between the Right and the Advance Party after the next elections, I think the Advance Party will have little difficulty in complying with the very majority of things that stand there. It's very good that's there - it's going on, among other things. on ownership, and there is a need to improve the rules governing joint operations and more rational operating arrangements, inter alia. solutions countering today's Minister of Agriculture, from the Centre Party. It might be interesting to hear if Torbjørn Hansen could mention three, four, five points that he expects to get through at the Center Party. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] Is it true that Torbjørn Hansen expects the Center Party to meet him to cut off NOK 2 billion in the agricultural transfers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1713	The President will recall that the speaking time in a row is up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1716	First, I want to thank you for something that I experience as a tribute to the Right Agricultural Policy, and I am very pleased that the representative Asmyhr is constantly stretching to get closer to the Right in the agricultural policy. It is positive, and I think he has made a good effort in that field in connection with the work on this setting. Nevertheless, it is difficult to get around the unpleasant fact that in budgetary terms the Progress Party halves the transfers to the farmers. I see that as a little serious and a rather hostile act to the entire Norwegian agriculture. So if one measures the alternative approaches in Norwegian policy, also in relation to the budgets, there's actually a shorter distance between the Right and the Center Party. It's not because the distance between the Right Party and the Center Party is particularly small -- it's quite large -- but because the distance from the Advance Party in practical politics is even greater. But I would like to invite the representative of Asmyhr to come back to this debate in the context of State budget treatment, and see if it is possible to reach even more common policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1723	As the sole party, in the context of the revised national budget, under the heading of the implementation of the agricultural agreement, the Right proposes a reduction in the appropriations of 692.3 million. kr. No other party intervenes in the decision of the Storting on the conclusion of an agricultural agreement. Right here acts as an unforeseeable batch, which facilitates unpredictable framework conditions for that part of the business. There is very little in common between the Centre Party and the Right - there is a broad consensus in the Centre Party - in terms of both ownership and economic policy. My line goes on that right here gave the impression that one made himself a spokesperson to maintain the cultivated area. The area's going down. The reason is lack of profitability. The question is: Will the agricultural area be maintained, guaranteed for agricultural production in the future, without the use of the land by farmers being economically viable?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1730	I think it is almost surprising that the representative Lundtigen did not follow up on my post, as he takes such a line. So, as he must have recorded over this entire accumulation period, the right-hand approach is to the agricultural settlements. We are then dealing with matters relating to agricultural policy in budgetary terms as well. It is therefore entirely predictable that the Right proposes changes to the budgets in relation to agricultural agreements concluded between the Government and the agricultural actors. It can't be surprising. On the contrary, it is very predictable. As regards the amount of land cultivated and the volume of food production in Norway, it is a fact that we have very small-scale agriculture. I think there are enormous opportunities both to maintain the land and to maintain production - perhaps even increase production and increase the amount of cultivated land - if we provide for a more forward-looking agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1737	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1740	Today, Stortinget deals with two very important issues, two of the most important issues for Norway. One is about the municipalities, the municipal economy, which is about the welfare of people, and the other is about the food of people in Norway. I believe that the important thing when we are discussing agricultural policy - the big agricultural debate in Stortinget every year is when we are discussing agricultural settlement - is the question of whether we can take care of the food soil. Can we take care of the food soil, and can we make sure that food is grown on all the food soils in Norway, in a situation where we know that the world's population is increasing, the need for food is increasing, and there is actually increasing demand and less access to food? That's the big question. Do we have a policy today that takes care of this food earth? The answer to that is yes. We have a policy that takes care of the food market, but it's demanding because we have such a different country. We have been farming in the heart of Sognefjord versus agriculture on Jären. There are two completely different divisions in the way of farming, in terms of climate, topography, soil, etc. That is why an agricultural settlement must have a policy that takes account of all these aspects. Then this with the usage structure is incredibly important. It's not as easy as saying that small farms should be merged because it's rational and sensible. Some places it's not possible to put together small farms -- it's actually right to have small farms, it's right to have part-time farmers who take care of their part of the food market. While elsewhere, it may actually be appropriate to find solutions that work together on the food field and actually get larger units. So, what I'm talking about is diversity farming. Norway is a diverse country, so it is required that we have a variety of agriculture that takes care of those who have 20-30 targets with cultivated land and those who have difficult farms. I believe that this year's farm plan takes account of that. So the question is, what are we going to do to make sure that we can deliver that product, food, which we're talking about here? We're a people's behaviour that is gradually becoming more and more demanding and more and more explicit about food. Can we deliver quality? Once we've taken care of the food soil, can we then deliver a quality from the food soil that makes the Norwegian people happy with it? On that question, my answer is yes, but we must constantly strive to get even better. I believe we have safe food in Norway today. We've been reporting reports of sprays. We're constantly working to make food safer. The highest of the safest is organic farming. The government has set itself the goal of getting up to 15 pst. organic farming. We may not be able to do that in the next few years, but we're on our way. We're about to get a larger share of organic production, and that's good, because that's the highest and most environmentally friendly thing we can do. First of all, it is more gentle towards the earth, and it is more affluent with nature than traditional agriculture. Having said that, I would like to say that I also see traditional agriculture being increasingly improved, and it operates very well in terms of delivering safe food to its inhabitants. Then we have an area that goes on animal welfare. We're going to treat animal welfare again next year. It's incredibly important that we keep focusing on it. I believe that consumers - in addition to having safe food - will feel sure that the food they receive is delivered from farmers who have treated the animals properly. That's where we're always on our way to doing things even better. One of the things in this settlement concerns cages for laying hens. There is one example, but there are also many other examples. Monday, by the way, I was at Snåsa. Eighteen seats have to start this year, 18 seats in a small municipality. It is also in my opinion about animal welfare. The fact that the cows are allowed to get back on their feet, I think, is something that consumers will also appreciate. There is a question mark that you take out so much of the price. The food in Norway is incredibly cheap. It was just to be missing that we should not charge any more on price. Food is still cheap in Norway, if we get a price quote after this farm settlement. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Agriculture. I think he has had a hand on this agricultural settlement by the authorities that it says respect, and with which we in SV are well pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1770	It could have been tempting to take a line on the last time the representative picked up, but I will not. SV is well known for wanting to distribute the goods. They are strong followers of taxes, redistribution, dividends, property taxes, taxes on consumables, inheritance taxes, etc. In the Monday’s edition of the VG, we could read about the consequences of agricultural aid for some well-known farmers, as VG called them. Among other things, we could read that the goods owner Leovenskiold, who might not be of those who already have the least, will receive close to 1.5 million. kr each year as a result of settlement. Isn't it a paradox for SV that while the party is trying to distribute the goods by taxing those who have the most from before, they go in to transfer millions of dollars to the same people if they were to have any cows on the booth?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1779	There are few Løvenskiolds in Norwegian agriculture. The farmers I know are hardworking workers, who spend most of the time producing food. Most people have a level of income that may be difficult to defend, both in terms of bills and in terms of other expenses. So pulling out single examples doesn't seem appropriate to me. The large number of farmers in Norway — whether or not there are variations in all — are hardworking farmers who have actually had a rather tight economy over many years. That is why the promise that comes into the agricultural settlement of the year is in place. Then we can discuss the device on it, and there you can probably find examples in every direction that you get some individual cases. And what at least our biggest newspaper likes to look up is when you have special things that kind of turn out unlucky. If there are things that are completely unreasonable in that way, then the Minister of Agriculture will see at the next settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1786	As regards the increase in the food budget, the rapporteur said in his statement that this is an increase that we can all live with. NHO Food and Beverages have stated that on some types of goods it can be closer to 10 pst. The main organisation of the trade and service industries has estimated a price increase of NOK 3 500 per person. Family per year years. The right considers that such a price withdrawal has a negative impact on economically disadvantaged families and on families with weak economies, as there is such a sharp increase that the price comes to the top of many interest rate increases, increased fuel prices and increased inflation. The food is still cheap, said the representative Ryan, who then agreed with the case rapporteur. Does it not see that increased food prices to the extent referred to here are very unfortunate for families with young children, the poor and those with at least an early age? Will not such redistribution be taken from the poor and those who have little from before, and give to the farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1793	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased with the Right's concern for those who have the least. I appreciate that you focus on it. It also shares SV. We're going to focus on those who have the least. But it becomes impossible to operate at different food prices depending on income. The fact that the shops have different shelves for different income classes, I don't think of me as a current policy. That is why we need to have a balance through taxation, child welfare and other means, which means that we help both families with children and those with little. An example of this is that the minimum pensioners get NOK 16 000 more to go with the next year after the settlement that we've just been through with them. Finally, I would just like to point out that the food in Norway is still cheap. It's cheap compared to the income we have. In the last government, Sponheim was Minister of Agriculture, and this was one of the things I always supported in Sponheim. He was also concerned about investing in quality over price. He was right about that. I believe that we are now showing - we are betting that we should have quality in Norwegian agriculture. It costs, and consumers must be involved in paying.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1802	The representative Ryan had many interesting reflections. But I want to get into a theme that he wasn't in, that's the reindeer agreement. In the setting, the government party writes that ‘the level of income in the reindeer industry in general is low, but the industry, overall, is in positive development’. At a people's meeting in Kvalsund at the end of May, the representative Ryan was his party trap, Olav Gunnar Ballo, out with quite strong phrases. Among other things, he said: that the reindustry is an obstacle to the development of industry, that it is a subsidized industry, that it is not a life-created industry after today's premise and that one has to discuss through the premises of this industry, and that the industry is a threat to developments in Finnmark and an environmental threat. It was said by the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo. So my question is, what is actually SV's reindeer management policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1814	SV believes that we should have reindeer operations in large parts of the country. We have areas today, both in North Norway and actually all the way down in South Trundelag, with tamrein. It should be in the future, too. Purification is an absolute industry to be maintained. We are committed to having sustainable management in dialogue with reindeer operators. The problem with the reindeer is that some places have been too clean in relation to the grazing grounds. It is a threat both to ecology and to animal welfare by the fact that there is too little food for the clean. That is why we are concerned that the Minister of Agriculture has a strong dialogue with the reindeers, so that we can have ecological and animal welfare sound management of the reindeer. We still want reindeer in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1821	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1824	The debate on this year's agricultural policy confirms each of its parties' well-known positions. The government's agricultural policy is largely a continuation of the Bondevik II government's policy. The Christian People's Party, therefore, supports the main features of the Government's agricultural policy, and we are pleased that it is possible to arrive at a declaration that agriculture's organisations have accepted. The Christian People's Party is generally satisfied with the size of the collected frame of SEK 1.9 billion, but we're worried about the distribution of these nearly two billion. In our opinion, too much emphasis has been placed on price increases. Most of us are probably tolerable, but for structural reasons more should be given in the form of budgetary resources. This would have had more advantages. Firstly, it would have benefited less use and thus made it easier to achieve the important objective of stimulating a varied use structure. Secondly, there would be a lower cost for regular consumers and for Norwegian economy as a whole. Thirdly, greater budgetary commitments would be more in line with developments we have to judge in order to comply with future WTO obligations. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the cost developments in agriculture. There is still a need to step up the transfers to the farmers, with greater emphasis on budgetary commitments than is the case in this statement. There is also reason to point out that there is still a high capital requirement in Norwegian agriculture. It is crucial to put in place better investment schemes to ensure that agriculture’s ability to invest in long-term operations is preserved and that important environmental measures and necessary animal welfare measures can be implemented. It is still a good thing that when it comes to securing the farmers good and arranging conditions for holidays and leisure time. Livestock and milk production must be able to take part in different activities outside the work and must be able to take a proper holiday in line with others in society. A collective opposition suggests that Norway must coordinate means of increasing niche production. The situation allows Norway to become a country of progress for pure and safe quality food. The Bondevik II administration did much to highlight Norwegian food and Norwegian niche products as good brands and quality products. There is also a deal in the opposition party to propose that the next agricultural settlement government make sure that joint ventures are also allowed to rent milk allowances up to the quota ceiling. Finally, I would like to mention the right's representative's proposal to remove the market arrangements for pigs. As a case spokesman for that matter, I cannot avoid mentioning it. The parties to the year's agricultural policy agreed to set up a wide-ranging working group to look at possible changes in the market arrangements for meat and eggs. Norwegian cost developments mean that certain changes in price and market mechanisms are now needed to facilitate price increases, while Norway's obligations under WTO agreements are being respected. I appreciate the fact that a joint committee is agreed not to make any changes to the market regimes for pigs, before it announces that the broad-based working group has come forward with its report. It is therefore agreed that the proposal for a representative will be annexed to the minutes of the sitting. Finally, the treatment of both last year's reindeer management laws and this year's reindeer management agreements shows that there is a broad political consensus that we should have an up-to-date reindeer business in Norway. That's good! Despite some of the highlights of this industry, there are still many challenges. It is now 16 years since the Storting through a big message had access to a collective discussion of the industry's challenges. The Christian People's Party is, therefore, in conjunction with the other opposition parties in the proposal to ask the Government to present its own report on reindeer management by spring 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1845	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1848	The representative, Sørfonn, says in his statement that this government is continuing the agricultural policy of the Bondevik government - despite the fact that the red-green government has now three years in a row secured the industry an agricultural settlement that is far better than any of the settlements that Sponheim and the Bondevik government were behind. I wonder if the representative Sørfonn can explain to me how this is related. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party calls for the transfers to the peasants in the years to come to be stepped up. Does the representative Sørfonn believe that he will bring his former partners to the Bondevik government to do such a powerful reverse operation? This is going to be the exact opposite, especially by what goes in for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1856	I'll do the best I can in 1 minute. When it comes to former Bondevik II's agricultural policy and the policy pursued today, there is a great deal of convergence when it comes to maintaining a varied use structure across the whole country. We can, if we're looking at this, see little difference in terms of the means of operation, but they're pretty small. The main reasons are the same, and we think it's a good and safe way to do it. When debt increases in the future, I said in my contribution, and we are firmly convinced that, in the future, there will also be a need for increased transfers to agriculture to ensure both good income development, the necessary adaptations to the WTO, welfare arrangements, and not least the investment needs of agriculture. So more and more budget transfers are we forced to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1865	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1868	It is difficult to deal with the agricultural settlement of the year without taking a look beyond the borders of the country and seeing what is the international situation. It's that the world lacks food. Economic growth, more people and alternative uses of agricultural land have led to an explosive price increase in agricultural products. This has serious consequences for those who have the least. When you spend almost everything you have on food, hunger is the result if prices go up further. We also have to take over in Norway. We have to take our share of the responsibility to produce the food that the world needs. That's exactly what we're doing through this settlement and through our positions in the World Trade Organisation. And to begin with, the World Trade Organisation is hopeless in the run-up to time, hopeless in spite of the needs of the world when it comes to the need for more production. Over the past 30 years, we have seen what liberalisation, reducing agricultural support and increasing food trade lead to. Large export subsidies have led to the collapse of very many domestic markets in Africa. The total food production in Africa is falling. We also see that some countries impose export restrictions to take care of their own people’s needs for food. This is serious. We therefore assume that any new agreement will have to meet our need for a national agricultural policy and sufficient national food production. This agreement documents the new line represented by the current government for Norwegian agriculture. The four settlements for which Bondevik and Sponheim were responsible represented an income increase of 800 kroner. The three years for which we have been responsible represent an income increase of between NOK 50000 and NOK 60000. We see that production goes up in all important productions, we see that investment goes up, we see that the take-off goes down, and we have strengthened the environmental and district profile. It is a robust structure profile that facilitates the necessary conversion, among other things. through the introduction of quota rentals. This process of conversion, the reverse operation, we need to meet our international obligations to produce more food, to increase production, to increase the exploitation of our own land and to lay the foundation for necessary investment and confidence in the future in the industry. Today's agreement and existing policy thus point forward and not backwards. However, this setting makes it visible that there are two very important differences in Norwegian agricultural policy and in this room. On the one hand, you have the government parties, and you have the Christian People's Party and the Left, which are reasonably in agreement on the direction and scope: the Christian People's Party in my opinion obviously, the Left agrees, but nevertheless reluctantly, perhaps because you have to defend what happened in the previous period. The other two parties, the Right and the Advance Party, are taking a completely different course and with the closure of Norwegian agriculture as their aim. It takes a little longer with the Right than with the Advance Party. The main premise for this claim is that you want to wind up the contractual system. You want to remove or weaken customs protection dramatically. One wants to weaken the internal transfers to agriculture, the Progress Party by NOK 6 billion and the Right by NOK 2 billion. The aim is to eliminate important structural instruments and to remove production restrictions, and to do so at the same time as entering beautiful words in the attitude that a varied structure of use and production across the country should be sought. This is not due to the fact that the instruments are out of proportion to the objectives. What this leads to, at least if you take the policies of the Advance Party, is an uncontrolled abandonment of agriculture. The consequences are going to be a massive cessation of use, and people who get into debt. We're going to have a strongly reduced production. We are going to have a centralisation of the production and loss of all the additional values that agriculture represents, whether it is environment, cultural landscapes or synergistic effects on travel life. Tens of thousands of families are going to go into an unsustainable debt situation, simply because they have now invested under the framework conditions that lie here. This is part of the long campaign. I believe that through this settlement we have shown that we deliver, that we are able to deliver, and that we are making clear the differences that are between us and them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1881	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1884	The most special thing about the treatment of this agricultural settlement is the Right Torbjørn Hansen's crumspring in the media and the policy the Right has taken up in this room today, and led so far in this great period. It's a little strange that the Right has a need to cling to the Center Party in agricultural policy. I have two questions for Borten Moe. Does the representative see a context in Torbjørn Hansen's media play and the proposals that the Right is behind in the vote today? And: How far has the Central Party been going to go in order to meet Righteous Policy in terms of the policy they are broadcasting in the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1891	It is not my job to take responsibility for the Right Agricultural Policy. I note that there is a significant distance between the Centre Party and the Right on a wide range of important agricultural policy issues. However, I note that the distance is much greater between the Centre Party and the Advance Party. Besides that, I have no comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1896	I think I'll concentrate my line on the Central Party's agricultural policy. There has been a rather interesting debate on price regulation lately, this old-school wreckage that makes the farmer not getting market price for his farm. It is now being challenged that an extremely valuable farm in Akershus should be sold. In this case, as in many other cases in which the State intervenes in ownership, the Senterpartie operates a kind of double game, where one actively advocates exemption in individual cases, while at the same time tightening the legislation at national level. Then I have registered that the representative Borten Moe, and in so far also Lundtigen, has stated quite freshly that the price regulation should be abolished or softened. But my question to Borten Moe is as follows: Can the Central Party's industrial policy spokesman tell us why it is important to liquidate the price regulation on farm?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1905	The centre party is inside the driveway to the next major choice. We are going to create a new enlargement programme, and we are going to take many important debates in the party, also related to agricultural policy. I assume that the Right has intended to add up to such debates prior to its election campaign and its grand programme. For my part, I have said that I want a debate on the price regulation of agricultural properties. I would like to have a debate on the ban on division in the law on soil. However, there is a debate that we are going to do away with in the Central Party. There is a debate on which the Central Party national meeting will conclude in March 2009, and that is where we are going to draw our conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1912	I listened with interest to the representative Borten Moe's political agricultural analysis, and I should also have liked to comment on his dealings with figures when he compared the two governments and income trends. That's not what I was supposed to ask. I would like to start by saying that the Left Party and the Centre agree that agriculture, alongside food production, also has an important role to play in housing and rural policy. Many owners of small units who are thinking about going down look for alternatives, and then often co-operation is the option. Today, joint ventures do not have the opportunity to lease allowances, there are distance limits, and there are number limits. This rigid code means that instead of someone choosing to join forces and succeeding, the option is to shut down. Does the representative, Mr Moe, think this is a good agricultural and rural policy? And will the representative be in favour of changes in this particular area?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1919	Let me first say that it was this government that raised the issue of quota rental and managed to put allowance rentals into an agricultural agreement. Never did the previous government. Then, too, the Centre Party has programmed the removal of the distance limitations and participant limitations in terms of the number of co-operations. Of course, I agree with the Center Party on this point. We are going to work towards the next agricultural agreement in order to achieve further harmonisation of the legislation on production.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1926	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1930	The left has the tradition of voting for agreements negotiated between the country and various organisations linked to wage settlement, social security and agricultural settlement. The left will therefore also vote in favour of the negotiated agricultural agreement between the State, Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers' Teams for the next period. This does not mean, however, that the Left considers that the agreement could not be better adapted to the challenges facing Norwegian agriculture, but the main features agree with the Left and, as has been said earlier, it is largely a continuation of the policy of the previous government. First a few words about the process. There is a lack of respect for Stortinget when one gets a case so late that there is hardly enough time to deal with it. While the members of the Farmers' Association and the Small Farmers' Team had time to assess the agreement, the country's National Assembly will have an irresponsible short period of time. It is with this majority government, which was supposed to be so manageable, that it was not supposed to have root and chaos, that it did not happen before, that the government disagreed so internally that it did not have the ability to make an offer so that negotiations could start at the scheduled time. This is a lack of respect for both the counterparty and, in particular, for Stortinget. It is also said that the same was true of the negotiations on the grubbing-up agreement. The negotiator set up with his delegation, but remained standing and waiting, as it took weeks before the state made its offer. I stress that this is the responsibility of the Council of State, not of the Office. This government might have to negotiate an agricultural settlement. I ask the Council of State to think through the process next time, so that the Storting gets a proper treatment time. Norwegian agriculture has a challenge in terms of what is happening internationally. It is important to renovate Norwegian agriculture so that you can meet international agreements without excessive counter-basins. In any case, it will be demanding, but the longer a waiter, until the steeper and harder the knee becomes one must over. This agreement does not bear the mark of such thinking, unfortunately. Renovation and modernisation of Norwegian agriculture, both in terms of national conditions such as high cost and wage levels, and international conditions in view of the WTO are required. The left considers that the protests from parts of the agricultural industry against the agricultural settlement of the year are based on the fact that the Government in the area by region has created expectations that it has not lived up to. It also appeared during the consultation on agricultural production. Agriculture will have an important place in future Norway. The aim is to maintain decentralised agriculture with a varied structure of use, both for emergency reasons and to ensure safe food. If this is to succeed, the modernisation of Norwegian agriculture is required to continue. The left regards the farmer as a self-employed person with a special management responsibility. Therefore, it is important that the entrepreneurial spirit is given an important place in agriculture. The resource base of rural areas needs to be used more widely for economic development and housing, including for people with no direct connection to primary industries. There needs to be more diversity in agriculture. Local authorities need to be given greater opportunities for local adjustment and for looking at agricultural policies in the context of other industrial policies. Agriculture must be given less designation, fewer forms - a simpler everyday life. The left agrees that Norwegian agriculture needs transfers at about the current level. It is important to align these with production neutral and environmentally friendly schemes. For the legitimacy of the transfers, it is also important to look at the scheme of the grant schemes and the rates for the very smallest units. It is important to take care of the small ones, but it is also important that those who run a little larger see that there is something left for increased investment and hard work and the risk of investment. The left considers that it is important for Norwegian agriculture and food production to coordinate the instruments for increasing niche production. The situation allows Norway to become a leading country for clean and safe quality food. In particular, there is a high potential for cooperation where local producers can create special products from local raw materials. I would like to refer to the work done by the government of Bondevik II to highlight Norwegian food and niche production as good brands and quality products. I would also have liked to get into the good work that has been done in connection with «Inn onto the tune» - there is an ever-increasing need for such offers - but time is not running out. Finally, I would like to point out that there are two parties that will not support the negotiated agreement. The progress party has the tradition of acting like this, but from the left's point of view, it's disappointing that the right takes the same position. I'm just asking the question: what will happen, what race of closures will we get if there is a majority for such a decision? Norwegian agriculture, like other industries, needs predictability and credible treatment in the Storting. Finally, I would like to address the proposal put forward by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1960	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1965	I note that the Left, together with the Advance Party and the Right in the setting, have chosen to criticise the Government for not submitting their proposal on the agricultural settlement until the outcome of the initial vote of the farmers' organisations was known. For a long time I thought it was an incurrency, but I now heard that the representative of Kongshaug repeated this. Then really is my question: can the representative Kongshaug, with his background and knowledge of the negotiating system, really believe that it would have been right for the government to put forward a proposition before you knew the outcome of the vote? Then I remember that if there had been no in the vote, the state would have gone back to its original offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1970	I see that there is a problematic way to do it, but things that have been promoted for the Storting before have also been withdrawn on different occasions. What's important, and what we're trying to signal, is that you have to think through, find out, a process and progress that will make the Storting get a real and proper treatment time. It may be necessary to look at a shorter period of negotiations, at least to submit the offer by the time that was planned in relation to the negotiating partner, in order to get started. You could possibly be done earlier - set a deadline of 8-10 May instead of 15 May - which means that you get better room after the negotiations are over. It's important. I hope that the representative of Gullvåg agrees that the time we have had at our disposal is irresponsible in such a big and important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1977	There are a few things I want to comment on in relation to the agricultural policy of the Left. The left has a very good agricultural policy. I think the Left and the Advance Party could find a lot of positive cooperation here. The representative of Kongshaug said that the Left has the tradition of voting for concluded agreements, such as the agricultural agreement, but there must well be a pain limit also for the Left in terms of agreements concluded by a government other than the Left itself. In addition, the Left does not wish to abolish the price regulation on agricultural properties. I think that is contrary to the liberal tradition of the Left, where freedom of nutrition must take precedence and is important. Doesn't the Left see that price regulation is involved in depriving farmers of much of the values they're sitting on?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1986	I have repeatedly said that there is a need to modernise much of the legislation in the field of agricultural policy. As far as price regulation is concerned, it is an important tool for us to continue to operate on the properties that are agricultural properties today. It is true that if you cancel the price regulation, I am afraid you will get the purchase and sale, and that the sale leads to forms other than continued operations, because the prices are so high that it is simply not sustainable or profitable to invest so much, with the return that agriculture gives. That's why we're very sceptical about abolishing the price regulation on agricultural properties. I just want to stress that the previous government made a couple of changes that made the agricultural property more valuable, but lifting overall is not the left-wing fashion for. We'll first see the consequences of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e1995	I take a line because the representative of Kongshaug was disappointed with the Right's proposal and that we are going against the agricultural settlement. He also claimed that this would lead to the closure of Norwegian agriculture. If that were true, I would also be concerned. I would like to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that Norway is the only country in the world that has agricultural negotiations, that the Right has a principle approach to our wanting a democratic debate in the United Kingdom on agricultural policy, and that it is determined by ordinary budgetary procedure. As I said in my post, our fundamental starting point in this negotiation procedure does not mean that we are changing some of the instruments as a result of that position. I want to draw the attention of Mr Kongshaug to that, and just ask him if he sees any action in the agricultural policy that could not have been carried out in the way to which the Right now refers, with consideration in the budgets and consultation with the agricultural organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2004	The left agrees that much of the content of the agricultural agreement should have been added to the budgetary process and a democratic and open discussion in the Storting in the context of the budget. But what has to do with direct income negotiations, the income of the traders, is in line with other negotiations that are taking place. The special feature is that this is to be approved at Stortinget, in line with the social security scheme. But if it turned out today that there was a majority in favour of rejecting the agreement, an agreement that will take effect as early as 1 July of this year, i.e. a fourteen-day period, and which has a direct impact on the income of the trader, I would say that this is very little predictable industrial policy, and both the Right and the Left are in favour of predictability in industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2009	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2012	This year's reindeer management agreement, like last year, has a framework of 97 million. kr. The agreement has a profile designed to facilitate the maximum possible withdrawal from slaughter and the proper placing on the market of reindeer meat. It is a key contribution to sound resource use and a good industry economy, which has been mentioned here earlier today as important objectives. Overall, the agreement confirms the rotation we have seen in recent years. It involves a stronger focus on nutrition and the organisation of the main reindeer operators. In my view, this will be a right course forward, and I am pleased that the committee majority ends up on this. Then to the agricultural agreement. The curtain for this year's agreement is significantly different from what we were facing a year ago. There are powerful movements in the world's food markets. We have to go back to the early 1970s to find something similar. Prices of key food products in the world have doubled, not least in countries where the population consumes more than half of the income on food. There is a need to increase world food production and the price of inputs is rising. In Norway, we have been screened to a large extent against these international price increases in food. But food has become significantly more expensive to produce. This year's agricultural agreement, with a framework of SEK 1.9 billion, makes it possible to continue the changes in agricultural policy and at the same time to continue a necessary increase in income in Norwegian agriculture. The domestic market is growing due to increased demand and increases production and income opportunities. But at the same time, costs have increased. Therefore, before settlement this year, there was a clearly weaker income growth in 2008 than we anticipated last year. This year's agreement corrects it. This year's agreement also provides for forecast revenue growth of NOK 22000 per year. annual work in 2009, provided that the forecasts for the non-Agricultural factors are accurate. Because the uncertainty about cost developments is clearly greater than usual, we will also conduct adjustment negotiations for the autumn in order to contribute to the certainty that the outcome will be consistent with the assumptions. Even experienced mountain people can remember no greater expectations of an agricultural settlement than what we saw this year. There is a great need for better income opportunities in order to achieve the objectives of active agriculture throughout the country and to cover the domestic market with Norwegian production. That is why I am pleased that the agreement has been given such a clear yes to the first vote held in the organisations. The price/budget ratio has been commented on in the debate, and the agreement assumes a higher share in target prices than has been usual in recent years. But the basis of the agreement is also special. Volume-dependent production costs are increasing, and production revenue must also be increased in order to ensure profitability. It's unrealistic to think that the most important thing -- the food -- in such a situation can be exempted from price increases. At the same time, the budget of the Agreement has been used to ensure the competitiveness of the food industry, but in particular to ensure the structural and rural profile of the policy. The increase in funding for 2009 has as a main objective revenue balancing, structural and district considerations. In addition - and this is important - significant funds are redistributed within the budget for the same purpose. So the proportion of budget resources is actually larger, if you think about redistribution within the agricultural agreement this year. Very much of what has been done this year is about facilitating the grass-based livestock population. It is for beef and sheep meat that we are far from achieving the objectives of the policy drawn up in this room. For a number of years we have had the situation that the goal of meeting the demand for food in Norway has not been achieved. In the case of sheep holdings, there is now an increase in income of SEK 83 000 over a three-year period. In this year's agreement, we take a special boost for the combined use. I am pleased that a large majority in the Chamber are voting for this year's agricultural agreement, as the vote is reading. It's anchoring the negotiating institute. It gives us the opportunity to continue positive income development and to ensure a clear structural and rural profile in agricultural policy. The agreement also obligates. It has provided an offensive course to adapt agriculture to the climate challenges. Agriculture shall reduce emissions and increase the binding of CO2. Regional environmental programmes shall be further improved on the basis of different environmental situations regionally. Organic production necks of bottles shall be removed so that the eco-market can be better served. In addition, the agreement provides for the lease of milk quotas for individual uses, so that individual users can easily obtain flexibility similar to that of joint operations. Finally, the parties are to review the organisation of the market in meat and eggs with a view to reforming to provide more flexible pricing and, within the provisions of the WTO Agreement, to maximise price stability for producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2038	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2042	As I mentioned in my post, the Progress Party believes that the agricultural negotiations are relatively incomplete in that they deal with only one group in the whole value chain that has been charged costs in connection with this agricultural agreement. It's especially the industry I'm now busy with. We see that big industrial giants like Tine and Nortura have trouble making money. Of course, they have an unusually heavy cost structure that they haven't done anything with in very many years. I could imagine hearing how the Council of State views industrial policy. We see in our neighboring country, among others. in Finland, that they have been very good at rationalising the industry so that it is competitive. What are the three main points of the Council of State to achieve a good industrial policy in the food industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2051	The two measures that are probably at the top of the Asmyhr list, changing the structure of the processing industry and lowering prices, will firstly be outside my remit and secondly, contrary to the policy I am pursuing. The most important step we are taking towards the industry in this agreement is the allocation that is in store for the RAPID. The competition relationship with Norwegian industry in relation to foreign industry is improved by that allocation, and that is how we have predictability for the industry. In addition, this year it is a contribution to the predictability of the industry to facilitate the safe supply of meat. We've seen that with a failed entry on the meat side, parts of the industry have simply faced challenges in having enough raw materials to process. This year, when we are creating a better economy, not least in the combination of sheep, cattle and milk, it means better predictability and greater opportunities for industry to make money in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2060	The government itself confirms in its estimates for next year's progress that the transition and departure in terms of annual work and use continue. 1400 use will disappear in 2008. However, despite conversion and departure, the Norwegian usage structure is very fragmented. The average consumption of milk is 18.5 cows and will increase by one cow to next year. However, what we see from agricultural trends is that many farmers invest in large farms and large single farms that are several times the average. Each time this happens, the level of subsidy is reduced per cent. the unit of production of that type of use. The right view is that much of what is the objective of today's agricultural policy could be achieved if a more efficient agricultural production had been established in each region. Does the Council of State not see that developments show that there is a high potential for efficiency improvement and that it can be achieved within the key objectives of which the Storting is largely integrated?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2069	In this area, the differences in the rhetoric of the Right and the content of the policy are most evident. It is not possible to release the structure in Norwegian agriculture and to believe that rural agriculture can be managed. We can maintain a substantial part of the production with a collection of fewer uses and increased production on the individual uses, but driving an exemption here and believing that a person is capable of having a geographical differentiation on production, I think is completely, completely impossible. That's why I disagree with the Right. When it comes to change, efficiency, I think change, development, we should have. The milk robot is coming. It leads to fewer hours of work in Norwegian poultry, but there is no solution to say that we should not have milk kerosene. The challenge is to ensure that we manage to renew agriculture through new jobs, at a rate commensurate with the efficiency and the changes that occur every day in Norwegian farms.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2078	The Council of State did much good for essential elements in this statement, but Norwegian agriculture does not enter the sunset with this statement. There are still major challenges, and the Christian People's Party believes that we need a stepping up of the government budget, among other things. to provide farmers with an input, possibly to adapt to a WTO agreement, to take care of welfare arrangements, agricultural investment needs, etc. My question to the Council of State is: if the Council of State is still in the position that he can influence what will happen later, will he ensure that there will be a stepping-up of the government budget's promises in the next state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2085	I heard the representative Sørfonn in his main post saying that he thought 1.9 billion was an appropriate framework for the agricultural settlement. I must say, I think it was a pity he didn't think of it before. The reality is that what we're doing now is doing an escalation to clean up what's happened before. After four years of extremely poor income development in agriculture, we have now added to agriculture a potential increase in income over a three-year period of up to NOK 60,000, after we were at - say - about a sixth in four years with the representative Sørfonn in position. So we're doing an escalating process to clean up after the previous accumulation period and what was not done then.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2092	Both the council and I have the joy that we each have the opportunity to release animals, and we have both well noted the difference there is in releasing animals that have been on the booth all winter, and animals that have gone loose in the poultry. Those who have stood on the booth are so audacious that they splinter and jump around, while the others, who have been moved, go calmer and calm down faster. In addition, those who have been on the booth all winter, after two days, are so stifling and stiff that you can see it on the walker. I believe this is a good example of good animal welfare. Why does the Council of State go in order to postpone the ten-year requirement for unbundling, when much has already been done to facilitate the operation? And isn't it what Inge Ryan said, important with good animal welfare? Isn't that one of the qualities of Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2099	The representative of Kongshaug and his party also did not propose to impose the overnight operating requirement, from day one. If we were to follow the reasoning put forward by the representative here, it would be a natural consequence to take a very rapid phase-in. A transition was made until 2024, at the same time as the Economic and Social Committee in Stortinget said that one had to make an assessment after that. What has been assessed now is whether it makes sense to phase this in over a little longer. That is what is in the position of the majority of the Economic and Social Committee, not that one should not have a transition to idle operation, but that one should be phased in gradually over a slightly longer period of time. So both the representative Kongshaug and I know that what is built by new ferns, and what is done by major modernizations, is the transition to idle operation. Of course, this is a proper development, but it is also important to say, whether we believe that 2024 or 2034 is the right year, that it should be and must be good animal welfare even in Norwegian boxing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2108	The Council of State made a contribution to this because there is a need to increase the world’s food production. I expect that, through the proposal he made to the Stortinget today, the Council of State has arranged for Norway too to be involved and contribute there - at least make sure that we are as self-sufficient as possible, so that we do not have to take from the food stock to the rest of the world. But at the same time, Stortinget has adopted a target of 15 p.m. organic production. There are conflicting interests here, because organic production today is not as productive as normal agricultural production. How does the Council of State intend to balance these interests in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2115	I would say that the proposal of the Progress Party to halve the transfer to Norwegian agriculture is a slightly bigger challenge in relation to Norwegian food production than to increase the share of organic production to 15 pst. Good organic farming, which is also good agronomic operation, in many cases we see results in the form of crops that are not far from what one achieves in conventional operations. We also see that those who set organically, in many cases, go ahead with the general ecologisation of Norwegian agriculture, and in and of themselves also beyond the borders of the country. So the emergence of organic, environmentally friendly production in Norway is good in terms of providing consumers in Norway with an alternative, an option, and also in terms of taking the lead in general ecology. It is important within organic farming that one manages to be so good that the volume produced per. unit, is as close as possible to conventional production.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2124	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2128	I'm going to put a stop to the reindeer agreement, an agreement that has a framework of 97 million. kr, otherwise corresponding to the agreement of the previous year. Together with an increase in the reindeer deduction, the instruments of this year’s reindeer management agreement provide the basis for continued positive development of reindeer management. The Agreement also supports the policy pursued by the Government, with a greater emphasis on the development of industry and the organisation of the reindeer operators whose main activity is reindeer activity. It is still necessary to initiate measures in relation to radioactivity in meat, and it is set at 3 million. kr to finance related costs. It is recommended that all lots, with the exception of the Advance Party, join the agreement, but with different comments. I think it is remarkable that none of the opposition parties seem to see anything positive in what is happening in the Norwegian reindeer industry for the time being. For my part, I would like to say, yes, it's challenges and problems, but it's also a positive development. I feel a responsibility to get some of what I think is positive, especially in Finnmark, where we see that there has been a price increase of 20 pst. in the last four years. In the case of slaughter outlets in this county, it has increased by 57 pst. from the period 2001 to 2003 to the period 2004 to 2007. However, the level of income is, of course, generally low in industry, and there are large regional differences. Especially in Northern and Northern European countries, production has been significantly reduced in the last two years due to significant losses. The predatory problem is demanding, not just for reindeer farming in this area, but for all land grazing. This is the reason to keep focus, both on the management side and on the industry side. The Storting must also pay attention to these problems. The proposal refers to the fact that the NRL - the Norwegian Reindustry Association - has mentioned that agriculture and reindeer farming are subject to different tax regimes. This is not a negotiation topic under the reindeer management agreement, and I will not go into it further now. I just want to say that I understand the view that these two industries should be treated equally. In conclusion, I would like to comment that an overall opposition will have a major impact on reindeer management by spring 2009. To make sure that I stay within an acceptable parliamentary practice, I would like to ask myself carefully whether the opposition parties are still in waiting mode, as marked by the previous government in this area, and whether one has simply slept an hour, since it was not known that any of the first things this government took on when it entered the government offices, were working on setting up a new reindeer law. It should be known that this one had been waiting for a long time. Now it is working to implement it in the organisation of reindeer operations. It's a demanding job. A majority of the Committee requests a status report on this work in the context of the next year's reindeer management agreement. Furthermore, the Joint Committee’s investigation and referral are now out of discussion and consultation. It is a very comprehensive matter that affects many interests in this industry. I therefore believe that it is a poor political priority if we are now going to start work on a new big business report on reindeer management. I recommend that the Storting join the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2151	Once again, the Council of State has come to the Stortinget to recommend that we accept a negotiated result which is supposed to create a good framework for agriculture. That the settlement is poor for the agricultural industry, we normally don't get served by the Council of State, but will be enough, like this year, to find out the basic material for next year's settlement. It is a strange sight to observe when the parties to the agricultural settlement come to an agreement. Then the champagne bottles are filled, and the praises are spread in rich monsoon. You'd think it was all right. But after a few days we can read about the great frustration among the farmers in different newspapers. Then everything is not so rosy anymore. When the Progress Party points out the lack of consistency between objectives and the use of instruments, we are constantly faced with the fact that everything is getting much worse with the Progress Party. Governments are the foremost target bearer of this point, without being able to demonstrate practical experience. What's really going on under today's rigid regime? Let's take a closer look at the objectives and the results: The government's objective has been that agriculture should have income development and social conditions in line with other groups. The result is that the distance from other groups is increasing. The government is trying, by means of housing and driving obligations and a ban on sharing, to achieve the objective of operation and residence throughout the country. The result is more than 34 000 empty agricultural property.The government has the same objective of using the BU funds. Nevertheless, the relocation from the districts to the central districts has only increased, and recruitment to the profession is failing. The average age of agriculture is now 50 years. - I could still do that for a long time, because the signs are clear, and the results speak for themselves. The council itself has stated that any peasant who gives up is a defeat. Nevertheless, the Council of State pursues a policy which means that in the period from the 2005 election to the Council of State, 10 p.m. will have to pack the snipe bag and leave the office next year. of the farmers who were in agriculture when he joined, given up production - 10 pst.Oh, my God! I find it hard to see that there is something to hit the chest for. The impact of the new agreement is estimated to be higher than three farms per day for the rest of the year and next year. Should this be the result of a good industrial policy? I think this clearly shows that the planned economic approach taken by the Government towards agriculture is flawed. The Progress Party wants a new approach to agricultural policy. We want to remove a policy that determines the price and volume of production, or what is to be produced. Restrictions on forms of operation should be liberalised in order to make farmers equal to the rest of the economy. Agricultural bureaucracy should be significantly reduced. Aid schemes and regulations need to be gradually reduced, possibly combined with compensation schemes which provide support for those who are adversely affected by changes in agricultural policy over a period of time. The same will apply to taxes and charges, so that producers can compete on equal terms, without any interference from the public rather than from health and environmental requirements and animal protection requirements. We want to strengthen ownership of the farmers by removing the price regulation system and the ban on sharing. The fact that agricultural property cannot be managed and traded freely at market prices when the buyer and the seller agree only shows how little ownership means for this government. It is a pity that the Government and the Council of State do not take into account the negative consequences of their policies. It is a pity that the Government is pursuing a policy that makes Norwegian agriculture unable to be competitive on the day of the launch of a new WTO agreement. It is a pity that the government chooses to pursue a policy that makes food products in Norway considerably more expensive than in our neighbouring country. The Party cannot participate in a policy to which all producers and consumers will lose weight. The draft agreement that we are now going to decide on will be the result, and we will therefore vote against it. Now's the time for reconnaissance. We have made this through our proposals on the matter. We want sustainable agriculture, focusing on opportunities and not on restrictions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2190	A red-green agricultural policy is also part of the solution to the environmental and climate challenges we face. Therefore, I am very pleased that the agricultural agreement also deals with this, and that we have a government that takes the climate seriously. Agriculture has a number of important functions, including: taking care of biodiversity, producing food in a climate-friendly way and sustaining the valuable cultural landscape. The working party will have a forward-looking agricultural industry, and of course it will have to take the environmental challenges seriously. This applies not least to greenhouse gas emissions, as agriculture accounts for 9 pst. of total CO2 emissions in the country. At the same time, I must point out that the forest contributes to a large bonding of CO2, yes, so much so that I think we need to build even more in three, for example. a new holmenkollbake. I am pleased that the parties have agreed that Norwegian agriculture must have a long-term and offensive strategy to adapt agriculture to the climate challenges. So it's going to be 15.5 million. kr in 2009, with important objectives of a significant reduction in ordinary autumn ploughing by 2020, a better use of manure by 2020, a reduction in methane from ruminant livestock combined with increased carbon bonds in the storage of carbon in soil; In the case of methane, new technologies are now in place to enable us to clean the gas and use it to warm the feathers. It's going to be a clean cheeky egg -- both cleaning and heating at once. It is also an objective to stimulate the continued high growth of forest and to facilitate an increase in bioenergy from the forest and from agricultural waste. In the field of the environment, the agreement means that we increase the promise in the pasturage by 49 million. kr. The regional environmental programme will be continued with 390 million. kr. And it's set at 125 million. kr to the municipal scheme called «Special environmental measures in the agricultural cultural landscape». In addition, we have the Morsa project, which we have been working on for many years. I am pleased that the Government is still investing in measures for this watercourse. The Minister of Agriculture presented a package of measures for Vestre Vansjö before Christmas, and per year. April 1, it's 74 pst. by the gardeners around Western Vansjø who have signed mandatory environmental agreements. These include, inter alia: reduction of phosphorus fertiliser, construction of traps and buffer zones around pelvis. This will help to give results for the Vansjö and Morsava trek. I have no doubt that the industry itself sees how important it is that they focus on the environment and climate through measures that I have mentioned here. This is good, because it will give results both globally and locally. It is a pleasure that we now have a situation in the Norwegian market where the demand for Norwegian food is greater than the supply. We must then stimulate increased production, and it will also be made possible. In particular, I would like to say a little about the measures in the milk sector. There is now a possibility to introduce a single-use milk quota lease within the translation regions. It will give more flexibility, you can make better use of the garden's capacity, and it will give fewer sleeping quotas. There is a separate scheme for new start-up in milk production, with 5 million set aside. a litre of milk quota, which includes: will help increase the recruitment rate in the industry, which I think is very important. Single-use rental quotas, and still the possibility of co-operations of up to 750000 tonnes, will provide greater flexibility in the industry and more flexibility for the individual farmer. For us in the Workers' Party, co-operation is an important scheme, which offers opportunities for more volume production, working communities and arranging holidays and leisure time. When we are now going to adopt the agricultural policy for this year, I notice that the Progress Party and the Right will take away from the farmers the means of negotiation and reduce the transfers by enormous amounts. The left will still have negotiations, and the Christian People's Party will have both negotiations and major transfers to agriculture. Today's debate on agriculture comes in line with many other issues that merely confirm that there is still a great gap and chaos on the urban side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2232	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2235	The right considers that a robust agricultural industry contributes to achieving important objectives of continued significant Norwegian food production, differentiated housing and a well-kept cultural landscape. The right will therefore work towards greater development opportunities for the farmer in the future. The right considers that a shift to larger and more efficient units is necessary to ensure that the agricultural industry becomes more forward-looking and less dependent on transfers, and that agricultural policy should better facilitate this. The co-operation administration made an important effort to highlight Norwegian food, and today many niche products have been foot-holding in the Norwegian market. It is therefore important that the Government intensify this work on developing niche and special agricultural products. The right notes that agricultural conversions continue and that nearly 2000 co-farms per year have been established. January 2008, which means a doubling since 2002. Figures from the Statistical Centre show that in July 2007 there were 49 800 active agricultural holdings in Norway. That's 1 400 less than the year before. At the same time, we can gladly record that the amount of food produced and the amount of area cultivated are broadly stable. The figures indicate that we are gradually getting fewer but larger and more efficient farms. It is with pleasure that the Right has registered that on a few points we may wish the Government welcome after. The government is now opening up the renting of milk quotas, which has previously been proposed by the Right. Renting of milk quotas is the most structurally driven approach taken in Norwegian agricultural policy, and is contrary to the government's policy so far in this area. I am also pleased to note that the parties to the agricultural settlement are now opening up to revise the market organisations. In recent days, we have also seen a certain slip in the media by the fact that representatives of the central parties have opened up to cancel or ease the price regulation on agricultural properties. In the right, there is a clear need for a thorough review of agricultural policy, and we point out that the Right in Document No. 8:79 for 2006-2007 proposed a comprehensive communication on a forward-looking agricultural policy. We have also promoted a number of other good proposals. For enough food we see that this government means lost years and lost opportunities. The question is just: when can we welcome the red-green government after all the other good proposals that we in the Right have made on a more forward-looking and viable agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2250	It is said that it is only God, the leader of the League of Bonds and the state negotiator who fully understands all parts of the agricultural settlement. When the farmer team leader, Undheim, and the department council Per Harald Grue, turns out, I'm going to think that it's likely that God will take control next year. But when Undheim and Grue now leave the stage, it's in the assurance that they've negotiated an agricultural settlement that's the best ever. The farmers get a significant increase in income, and it costs us approx. One dollar a day. So that's the price we pay for living areas, a pleasant cultural landscape and the production of healthy and good food. The agricultural agreement is not a normal wage settlement. The peasants are per year. definition of self-employed persons who, through their organisations, negotiate with the State the framework for their business activities and a conglomerate of aid schemes. The alternative to such negotiations is that the Storting unilaterally determines the incomes of the peasants, which also happens when the parties do not agree. Every time it has happened, the farmers have lost their lives on it. But that's how the Advance Party and the Right want it. They're going to wind up the farm business. I've been accusing these parties of appealing to egoism for a while and in various contexts. Not so in this case. Because if there is a farmer who, after this agricultural settlement, gives his support to the Advance Party or the Right, at least it is not of his own interest. After the government change in 2005, we witnessed a turnaround in agricultural policy. Not since the days of the Minister of Agriculture Oskar Øksnes in the 1970s, the farmers have experienced the makeup of income growth. In this of course lies the recognition that farmers have become dependent on income trends. The expectations for the agricultural settlement of the year were therefore high. I will admit that with the background of some meetings in the Vestfold Bondelag, I felt that the arc could be somewhat tense, but today we find that the expectations are largely met. I am pleased to note increasing optimism among the farmers. This is due not only to agricultural operations but also to a large extent to international developments. We have to produce food to feed the world's population, and food prices have increased sharply in the last year. There are also significant opportunities for Norwegian farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2263	It is striking when Torbjørn Hansen speaks warmly for Norwegian agriculture and says that agricultural policy to the Right is closer to the Central Party's agricultural policy than its Progress Party. Fortunately, this is about the distance between the Right and the Advance Party being quite large in this important matter. Unfortunately, it's not about the Right being close to the Center Party. The issue of ownership and economic policy are important differences. I constantly wonder how the Right will implement the so-called modernisation of agriculture with larger units and profitable volume production while maintaining the beautiful cultural landscape they are talking about. When we look back a little bit on the wording that has been used about the Center Party's agricultural policy, I think Leif Helge Kongshaug from the Left can be quoted. He has said that he hopes that ‘the working party will be able to fight down the rearmost veto rights of the Centre Party in the field of agricultural policy’. When I compile the so-called modernisation that Right-Speaker speaks for, and the review by the Left of Kongshaug of the Center Party is as radical, I find it necessary to ask who it is that has claimed to be defined as modern and forward-looking. When the Central Party in government has strongly contributed to good agricultural practices that ensure national food production and active agriculture throughout the country, I would argue that this is precisely the right thing to do. In this year's agricultural policy, we will facilitate new recruitment, including: by adding 5 million litres to the milk quota, especially for young farmers. Through this statement, we encourage those who are engaged in the profession to increase their income. We're willing to open the industry and give people the opportunity to do what they want. We in the Center Party put our finger in the food soil and are perfectly clear that we can never become a country with a food production that can compete on volume and price. But it's regardless of our duty to make sure that we can produce food for our own people. Given the food situation in the world, where many people are actually starving, here in the country we have to use the land on which we have the ability to produce food. Now it's fun to live in a country where the last war is over 60 years back in time, and where most are so rich that they can buy the most, whether it's produced here in the country or imported. Unfortunately, we know nothing about the future, other than that it's always expected to happen. In order to prevent unexpected situations and crises of a different nature, it is essential to have a targeted national agricultural policy in order to ensure and increase our food production. That is why I am pleased with the policy of this government, and I look forward to the centre party being able to contribute to new, good agricultural decisions in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2282	Let me begin with a general point of view first: the world needs a new WTO agreement. Trade is fundamentally positive, including for agricultural products. We know that only in recent years have millions of people been picked out of bottomless poverty precisely on the basis of trade. Unfortunately, our agricultural policy still contributes to keeping people in poverty. However, we have taken a step on the way through, among other things. MUL imports, as the Bondevik II government set up in 2002, and which have also been expanded under today's government, because we know, as I just started with, that trade is positive and the main tool for bringing people out of poverty permanently. This means that I also want to link a small comment to Norwegian aid and trade. We have the opportunity to use Norwegian aid, for example. control of food security, allowing the poorest to use the MUL import regime, namely no restrictions on exports to Norway. So let's think about the more homely things. I think it is fundamentally positive that farmers are self-employed. The problem is, however, that the peasantry has been passed through. Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian farmers are particularly important both in food production, in housing and in maintaining a cultural landscape. But the problem, when you look at the figures, is that both current and previous agricultural policies have failed fundamentally. We have 49 800 active farms, while at the same time we have 34 000 empty farms. We have 18.5 dairy cows on average per year. use, which, fortunately, has been increasing in recent years. However, we still see an estimated decrease of 2.5 pst. in the number of active agricultural holdings both for this year and estimated for next year. Right-wing policy is, of course, just to release the farmer, where you actually have the opportunity to do so, to develop the positive aspects that you have as a self-employed person. This means removing both price control and accommodation, looking at the ban on sharing in the law on soil, and wanting significantly more competition into Norwegian agriculture. Kaoset is obviously in the government, which Gullvåg did not include, because we see that the centre party also announced through the media that they wanted to leave if they did not get their will in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2297	I take the floor on this matter because every day I see how important agriculture is to our country. This applies not only to food production but also to the importance of housing, to the cultural landscape, to travel and other business. A former prime minister said everything is related to everything. I live in a nice farm in North Norway, where I have young, active farmers around me. These are people who can't lock the door and go home in the afternoon and come back the next morning. No, these are people who have long working days and a very great responsibility, a responsibility that follows them both in leisure time and in holidays. Nevertheless, they thrive with the profession, and they develop their business continuously. No one has to come and say that agriculture does not change. I record that there have been signs from the industry that the rise in farmers' incomes is too late, but at the same time I record that there is satisfaction with the change in course that has taken place since 2006. It is a strong belief in industry that, without the government change in 2005, the industry would have had a very difficult situation today. When I read today's attitude, I am convinced that this perception will continue to be reinforced. It is said that there is still a decline in agriculture, but I am convinced that with a safer income base and more predictability futures will be created and thus growth in industry. In particular, the new system of high cost crop adjustment negotiations on fertilisers and forage is important in order to create predictable revenues. I think it is sad that large and tone-indicating opposition parties that the Progress Party and the Right repeatedly try to create uncertainty for the industry. These two parties currently have quite similar agricultural policies at their core. When these batches will not approve the negotiated agreement of the year and in addition will remove the entire agricultural agreement, this is clearly a contribution to creating uncertainty for the industry. My claim is that if this estimate of Norwegian agriculture were to be realised, it would mean the end of agriculture in much of our country. Climate and topography cannot be transformed by either farmers or politicians. That is why we need an agricultural agreement and regulations that take account of the different operating conditions, thus providing viable conditions for farmers throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2316	"Let go of the pawn!" ‘Free Building Norway!’ There are progress party slogans with which the Right is now also profiling. For one who was born and raised and has worked all his life in the village, it is completely impossible to recognize himself in the rhetoric that follows these expressions. Of course, it is demanding to maintain housing and active agriculture and business in all rural areas. This is a challenging situation that needs to be faced with an active and creative agricultural and rural policy. I believe the government is delivering in relation to these challenges, and we record that there is now a lot of optimism and investment in agriculture. Agriculture has an important place in the Government's offensive business and district policy. Yes, agriculture itself is the support block in many rural areas and ensures housing and value creation, but also the production of common goods related to cultural landscapes, the environment and living areas. The government has now delivered three good agricultural agreements that provide the basis for us to have active agriculture around the country in the coming years. I believe that the black paint for which the right parties stand is completely groundless in the current situation, as national agricultural policy and price developments in the international arena are so definitely positive for the Norwegian farmer. The demand for Norwegian food is now greater than the Norwegian farmer’s ability to deliver. There is a whole new situation that gives agriculture new opportunities. With a government that wants to invest in agriculture and in rural development, there is no need to allow the black paint of the bourgeois parties to dampen the optimism that is now spreading around in Building Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2328	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the parties came up with an agricultural settlement that gives farmers a necessary boost in many areas. We are positive that the overall framework was SEK 1.9 billion. We could, however, envisage a different distribution of this framework, unless it is less on price and more on budgetary transfers. This would be better for less use. Less price increases would also be positive for ordinary consumers and for the economy as a whole. It must be a paradox for the Government to include more in VAT than the budgetary transfer that this settlement makes. A good agricultural policy is part of the solution to the environmental challenges. Agriculture has important functions in terms of biodiversity, climate-friendly food production and landscape management. At the same time, agriculture, like other sectors of society, has an improvement potential in terms of the environment. Agriculture stands for 9 pst. of the total CO2 emissions in Norway. Agriculture is also a source of contamination of water bodies. This applies, inter alia, to: Lake Van and the Halden watercourse in my own county. The Morsa project has received 25 million through the agricultural agreement. kr in the year and next year to reduce pollution problems. This is positive and in line with the comments of the Christian People's Party in connection with the state budget for the current year. At the same time, I find it a little strange that Eastfold, with its significant and urban agriculture, has not been selected as one of the experimental groups in the field of spreading techniques of manure and sludge. This is an important attempt, and we would like to be part of it. The Soria Moria statement states that 15 pst. of food production and consumption in 2015 shall be organic. Despite increased production, this is a long way to go. The Christian People's Party believes that it has little problem to set ambitious goals if they are not followed up. The Joint Organisation for Organic Production and Consumption pointed out in the hearing that there is ‘a large gap between organic consumption and production in Norway’. I hope the government notices that statement, and that this will be better taken care of in next year's agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2346	A lot has been said about Norwegian farmers here today. I want to highlight two aspects of the reindeer industry in particular. The sewerage industry represents a very good and sensible use of resources in marginal mountain and outland areas. It contributes to nutrient diversity, it constitutes a very important pillar of the Sami culture, and is therefore also very important for the preservation of the different Sami languages. There are therefore very many important reasons why we still need to have an up-to-date reindeer industry in this country - which is both secure for the future, and which can be strengthened and developed. The NRL has its own protocol entry into the concluded reindeer management agreement for 2008-2009. It is about taxes linked to the purchase and use of operating equipment in connection with reindeer operations. The NRL here indicates that today’s tax regime is perceived as both unfair and unfair. It is expected that reindeer operations will be treated as an industry and treated as equivalent to other primary industries in terms of tax exemptions for the acquisition and use of an operating vehicle. I totally agree with NRL. This is both unfair and unfair. In my view, nutrition is nourishment, whether you are a farmer on Jären and need a tractor for a nutritional purpose, or you are a reindeer operator on Finnmarksvidda and need snowmobiles for a nutritional purpose. I have previously addressed this matter in writing with the Minister of Agriculture. In fact, my enquiry was answered by the Minister of Finance, but I hope that we do not have such a level of rigid administration here in the country that the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Finance cannot talk together, so that they can jointly resolve the totally unfair discrimination of different primary industries. Another very important thing in this context is that the reindeer industry today is experiencing an increasing pressure on pasture land. It is particularly linked to the activities of the Defence Agency, with shooting areas, to the development of large cabin areas and, last but not least, to plans for the development of large wind farms, such as on Fosen and along the Finnish coast, and to mineral extraction and mining. In such cases, I would ask the authorities at different levels to have a good dialogue and to pay particular attention to the reindeer industry in the context of plans for major natural interventions. Good dialogue is also very important in order to avoid conflicts between reindeer and the rest of the population, as we do, for example. experienced a few days ago, when a reindeer found five of his clean shots in the Storelvdalen in Alta. Such a shooting of rein is, of course, totally unacceptable, and it worries me. We must take this seriously so that we can prevent such conflicts between people in the future. Purification is a particular land-dependent industry, and intervention and unrest in grazing and calving areas have increased considerably in recent years. In order for reindeer to remain the bearer of Sami culture, it is important that it is perceived and managed as an industry of economic value creation and efficient production.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2365	I was so lucky to have the opportunity to attend the UN Food Organisation, FAO, its meeting in Rome from June 2 to 6 - 183 countries, 4,000 delegates, all focused on food security. International food policy is now turning from cheap, vulnerable, to safer and better paid for food. Common denominator: Today's food situation - a threat to all the UN's Millennium Goals. Hunger is now hitting over 1 billion people. There will be follow-up in several UN bodies this year. There is an urgent need for both short-term and long-term action. Immediate appeal of the meeting: strength of agriculture, use of production areas. Strong recognition of the market restriction in order to provide safe food supply. Too little food -- sky-high price increases threaten several countries' regimes. International food policy must correct market forces. Norwegian systems, import protection and target prices and previous stocks of food will be cleansed. Common recognition: higher but more stable food prices. International conditions will have an even greater impact on Norwegian food supply policy in the coming years than the strong increases in the cost of fertilizers that we will now experience in the days to come. For example, 110 pst. However, the increase for fertiliser 21410 is unexpected for me. It's dramatic. Norwegian agricultural policy is therefore facing major new orientations, and I would encourage people to look to 1974 for common denominators and different features at the time. It led to much change then. I would like to make it clear that the red-green government has a completely different, positive attitude towards agricultural work than both the Right, the Advance Party and the Left's Sponheim. That's something I totally agree with. However, Norwegian agriculture has now been so shaken that very strong positive measures are needed after developments in the early 1980s in order to threaten the future of young people in the industry. This is why, as a result of high economic growth in Norway and strong international price growth in oil and fertilizers, Norwegian agriculture is now experiencing a cost increase far beyond what is budgeted for in the last year’s agricultural agreement, as well as a wage growth in other groups in 2008 that is far greater than that budgeted. It is demanding for the Norwegian Government. The Norwegian Government has shown its willingness to do so in a completely different way than before, but facing major challenges, because the situation is completely different both internationally and nationally, and there is a need for change. The time is working for agriculture if it is a political will to do so, and we see that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2378	There are some of the issues that have emerged in the debate that deserve to be commented on. The Progress Party and the Right are attacking Norwegian agricultural policy because it isthrough-regulated and through-bureaucratic. It is suggested that there are 7 000 - 8 000 bureaucrats working with Norwegian agriculture. I want to express two things. There is a basic attitude that says that you should not have an agricultural management that is larger than necessary. Of course, if there is unnecessary bureaucracy, it should be removed. But then it's been no more than two and a half years since we got into the government offices. We have inherited this entire administration system after four years of right-dominated government. We have not introduced new regulations that have brought about the need for a new bureaucracy. On the other hand, what is seen when you read through the proposition and comments on the right-hand and the right-hand parts of the position, is that the times they write something positive, it is to support the use of tools and tools that are bureaucratic. The broad arrangements of agricultural policy, such as the area grants, are a very effective way of organising agriculture. The narrow schemes, such as the value creation programme, the bet on niche food and the kind of things that both the Right and the Advance Party write positively about, are the ones that give rise to the great need for agricultural bureaucrats. The alternative to the Right and the Advance Party is, of course, the EU. The point is that in Sweden and Finland, which are EU members, the need for bureaucrats has increased significantly. It has become a profession of its own to help farmers fill out the amount of application forms on which they depend. So I think you're dealing with a lot of rambling as it's hard to document, when you bring this forward. Another thing I would like to comment on is the Right Mass that we have to get an efficient user structure, conversion, and you refer to big poultry. I want to tell a story from reality. It's about a feather that right would like. It's being built in my neighborhood. It's a feather to $18 million. NOK 750 tonnes, with two milk quotas, I think. It must be in the middle of the blink. But then it's the capital requirement -- this is a farm that's now borrowed with almost 20 million. kr. So you have to ask yourself: what kind of use is the most dependent on having a national agricultural policy where you get both robust subsidies, where you have price protection, and where you get a price in the market? If the milk price goes down by 40 cents, that means $300,000 for this farm. It might be the hook on the door when the debt interest costs go up. I think it's strange that, especially from the Right side, you haven't taken this more into account, and that you're not more able to nuance the considerations you want to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2387	Arne Haugen, the owner of the reindeer management agreement, was injured to say that the opposition party had nothing positive to say about the reindeer management agreement. Now it may be that the listener's head in that part of the hall where the representative Haugen is is quite foolish, because in my post I said, among other things. the treatment of both last year's reindeer management laws and this year's reindeer management agreements shows that there is a broad political consensus that we should have an up-to-date reindeer business in Norway. I also said that despite some points of light, there are many challenges to this industry. So I went on to argue that after 16 years, the Storting should be given a new opportunity for a thorough review and a comprehensive assessment and discussion of the reindeer industry's potential and challenges. Because it's okay that the red-greens ask the government to come back with a status report on the implementation of the red-greens once to next year. As set, they act red-green in a number of very loyal, kind and disciplined towards their government. But it would have been okay if this plural had been against and willing to support the demand for a big message, because then we could have a completely different, thorough and necessary emancipation of future policies and framework conditions for an important industry in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2392	In a debate on one of the major industries in Norway, it is appropriate to point out that the debate is mainly about subsidies and regulations. So it's like all farmers have one thing in common: they're all landowners. Property rights are mentioned to a very small extent, in particular by the representatives representing the parties to the Government. Every year there will be 3,000 fewer farmers in Norway. It is not with the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr as Minister of Agriculture, but with the Council of State Riis-Johansen as Minister of Agriculture. Nevertheless, the cultural landscape is largely maintained. It is mainly the neighbour of the end-user who maintains the operation of the areas with which one has ceased. The ban on sharing, which is hot from the red-green team, makes those farmers who still want to drive more and more efficiently than they did before become tenants by this law. They are forced to rent and not buy the land from the owner of it, while the neighbour, who has left the farm and could imagine selling the land to the neighbor, is deprived of the right to manage his own property freely. Price regulation is probably an obstacle. You are deprived of the right to freely manage your own property, which we have seen repeatedly in recent days in the media. The forest is mentioned in the setting, and there the Committee says it will go below the value of good forest management and the extraction of highly mature forests in all parts of the country. This has little connection with the reality experienced in Norway. The triple mark is a very good example of that. And I'm sure the landowners in Trillemarka don't feel they're getting to take out the most mature forest in all parts of the country. The same is true of Helgeland. Protection of state-owned property under public law and State Forest property on Helgeland will seriously impair the functioning of Bergene Holm and other buyers on Helgeland and in the Nord-Trøndelag. Protection where the boundary is politically determined is one thing. But non-interventional areas, which you talk a lot about, are not to be reduced, says the Government. A significant part of the forest that is commercially available over the next 20 years is in non-interventional areas. The Progress Party has proposed that forest road should not be regarded as a technical intervention, thereby reducing non-interventional areas. Unfortunately, no one has voted in favour of our proposal. The sum of protection and obstacles to forest road construction represents a serious threat to large parts of the most economically profitable part of Norwegian agriculture, an example of a lack of commitment by the Government to the basic ownership interests of Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2409	I think that someone in this debate has tried to draw an agricultural policy map that is considerably simpler and less nuanced than the reality provides. The Government Parties systematically place the Right Party and the Advance Party in the same booth. I have a relaxed relationship with such exercises in this Chamber, but I would like to stress that the Right has ambitions and objectives for Norwegian agricultural policy. We want to maintain production, we want to maintain land, we want to secure a good cultural landscape, and we want active agriculture all over the country. Then the representative Arne L. The hau was annoyed by the motto «Get rid of the farmer!» I can inform Haugen that this was the title of an excellent inquiry into agricultural policy that the Right Big Group was prepared in the 1990s. Many of the recommendations and trends contained in that report have become reality. The fasitator is that the change that has taken place since then, which has then gone in the opposite direction to what the Central Party was talking about at the time, has shown that we have maintained the main objectives of agricultural policy, despite significant change. But to the representative Haugen, to give this with freedom a little substance: so right wants to release the farmer from the ban on sharing. That means you can take advantage of the possibilities on the farm far better than you can today, and you can get increased values on the farm. We also want to remove the price regulation, so that we are free from a government price regulation of private business. We also want to release the farmer from living conditions, which is a regulation that makes it possible for thousands of farmhouses to be left empty around Norway. We also want to release the farmers from unnecessary bureaucracy. And then we're into what the representative, Ola Borten Moe, said quite unknowingly about the Right Policy for Simplification. It is obvious that removing price regulation and housing, removing the ban on sharing, and removing the responsibility of the State Agriculture Administration for overcoming the county agricultural boards in Norway, will release a lot of resources in agricultural management, with the proposals already advanced by the Right. I also want to say that what Borten Moe said about joint ventures is right. It is true that large use depends on the stability of the framework conditions. However, it is also true that large-scale use receives significantly less transfers than the corresponding output based on small uses will provide. This means that greater and more effective use will reduce the need for subsidies and transfers than many small uses do. This is why it is a good basis for improving the effectiveness of Norwegian agricultural policy to strengthen farmers' incomes and maintain our important objectives, with a lower level of transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2422	I need to follow up on some assessments of the figures in the year's agricultural settlement. As mentioned above, high cost growth is international in fertilisers and diesel. A Norwegian example is workshop bills. The consequence of this is that income opportunities are going to be different from what is budgeted. The agricultural agreement for the year budgets with an income increase of NOK 11 700 per year. annual work, including equity, for 2008. This is much smaller than the other groups get. In addition, we see that the cost is expected to increase in 2008 than the agricultural budget heading has foreseen. For 2009, the figure is 21 800 kroner per month. annual and cost growth and wage growth for 2009 are even more uncertain than for 2008. This gives cause for reflection and necessary innovation, both in industry and in the political environment, in the work towards the next year's agricultural agreement. From 1950 to 1981 the agricultural agreement followed the harvest year, i.e. from 1 July the current year to 1 July next year. In the period 1981 to 2003, the contract year was the current calendar year as for the LO-NHO settlement. From 2003 onwards, the agricultural agreement applies to the calendar year to come, unlike all other wage and salary settlements. The agricultural agreement of the year is therefore to apply to 2009, while the agreement of the year addresses some of the failing economic conditions for 2008. This system is and becomes very complicated and is based on assumptions that everyone knows fail, in the disfavor of agriculture. Many managers and key policy makers, as well as large sections of farmers, have serious problems in understanding this contractual system. It should therefore be natural for this government to have the same year of the agreement as for LO-NHO. It will simplify the debate, and it will improve the security of assumptions. Therefore, there is a need to go through the system to ensure that the intention contained in the Soria Moria declaration can be realized, that one can take over the international food situation, that one can take over the fact that the agricultural area in Norway is falling, that one can take over the fact that we have a historically large flour import into Norway. So there are a number of challenges that need to be addressed in order to get a situation where young people, whether they are willing to work or have a lot of money, but where both groups want to work in agriculture, can get a hope for the future by going into the industry. As mentioned, time is working positively for agriculture now. It is very much up to organisations, farmers and the political system to realize the dreams of many and the necessary security for us to have a different and more positive course in Norway, too, in relation to the international challenges that we see clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2435	At the very end of the debate, I just want to link some comments to things that have been said. Ola Borten Moe said that with the policies of the Progress Party, there would be an 'uncontrolled' closure of agriculture. I don't know what words you're going to use for the development of agriculture in the last 20 years. So every year there have been fewer and fewer farmers, and in many of those years the Senter Party has had the Minister of Agriculture. So if it's about shutting down agriculture, the Center Party has a big part of that honor, to say it that way. Leif Helge Kongshaug said that with the Progress Party one would wind up Norwegian agriculture. I find it sad to hear that there is so little faith in Norwegian agriculture. I believe that Norwegian farmers are farmers all over the world, and that they are able to produce products that you want both in Norway and outside the world. You can do that in other countries, and I can't see that anything prevents you from doing it in Norway too. I want to show up as an example of the Norwegian fishing industry, which is a non-subsidized industry, able to export for almost 40 billion kroner a year, and which has great success. I think it will be quite possible for Norwegian farmers to do so, if you get the opportunity. The answer is not just sky-high transfers of more than $20 billion in direct and indirect support. Norwegian farmers have to be given the opportunity to stand on their own feet. Then I'm pretty sure they'll do it. There are probably more and more farmers who see that there is the possibility of just that. Bendiks Harald Arnesen was in his contribution to agriculture all over the country. And he said, among other things: One thing: climate and topography can't be done with. I fully agree with that. I have been standing on this platform and have always said that human activity does not affect the climate. It's nice that Bendiks Arnesen could confirm in his post that that's right. So many have been concerned about the global food situation and the deficiencies. It is an important theme to capture. But then I would just like to remind you of the climate agreement that has been concluded in this room, where investing in biofuels is an important measure. And how do you produce biofuels? Well, there's someone who needs to grow what's going to produce biofuels. And it's at the expense of food production. So when you're talking about climate, when you're talking about biofuels, look at both sides of the equation. It pays off.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2450	Ola Borten Moe has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2453	I notice that the Right throughout this debate has tried to distance itself from the Progress Party. Now I'm not in doubt that you've written a lot neatly in the setting, but one thing is to have ambitions, another thing is to have the tools. And if you look at the policies you put into practice, it's a reduced version of what the Progress Party promotes. When it comes to bans on sharing, price control and relief for the State's agricultural administration: the State's agricultural administration has 189 years' work. They have a lot of other things to do. First, right didn't do this while they were in power, and second, there's been a number here that, among other things. The right has promoted, 7 000. It's a little for Staten's agricultural administration. I'm going to end by saying that the Right Cutter 693 million. kr in the revised national budget. There is money that was granted in the last year's agricultural agreement, very little predictable, and I am pleased to see whether Right, which expressed itself very negatively to the AFP system, dares to cut the correspondingly in the AFP scheme of the state budget. In that case, it should be in the Right Spirit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2463	What makes me speak at the end of the debate is the intervention of the other representative Arne Haugen. He produced the reindeer management policy as if nothing happened under the Bondevik II government, but until now, with this government, it is not the way of everything that has happened. I remember that the work on the reindeer management law started under the previous government, and a lot of the leaders were then laid down. But what's more important, and that's urgent, is that the challenges are addressed with the strong use of low, predatory losses and pressures on the areas. I refer here to the comment from the Left, Right and Christian People's Party, which is committed to achieving the goal of sustainable reindeer management. Does the representative Haugen not think that has been said positively? There have been several favorable grazing winters, but suddenly a few difficult years, with losses of large amounts of animals. I am asking the Government to involve itself in the work of focusing on it and investing in quality. Furthermore, the representative Haugen had a panegyrian tribute to the government's agricultural policy. There was no way of optimism. What the representative Haugen did not mention was what the representative Lundteg had in mind in an article - which I also fully agreed with - and that was the development of costs and the level of interest in Norwegian agriculture. Fertiliser prices have increased by 80 pst. Construction costs have increased by 30-40 pst. The interest level has session. This gives rise to the great fear of initial investment in Norwegian agriculture. It is then important to pursue an economic policy that counteracts further interest rate increases. The rental of allowances within a geographical area is positive, but it often requires buildings and thus an acceptable level of interest. Increased costs with subsequently increased wage costs - for this is the case in the negotiations between the country and various organisations, etc. - is the biggest enemy of agriculture. Therefore, a good economic policy is important for the agricultural industry - and perhaps the most important thing: keeping interest rates and costs down, because agriculture is unable to compete with the wage developments that it will otherwise be in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2474	I do not intend to extend this debate unnecessarily, but when the representative of Korsberg mixes the climate debate into the climate for the production of agricultural products throughout the country, it tells me that there is a broken lack of knowledge about Northern Norwegian agriculture, among other things, at Korsberg. I think it is awfully sad that a prominent representative of a large party should not realize that producing agricultural products in that part of the country, both I and the representative of Korsberg, come from, is anything but producing agricultural products in the countries with which Korsberg believes we are going to compete. That's why the agricultural agreement is so important: in order for us to have an agriculture all over the country, in order for us to be able to produce food that people around the globe need. I think we should continue to do that, and that is why we need the agricultural policy that the red-greens are currently pursuing. It gives a future for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2479	This agricultural debate has been reasonably predictable. The position tries to produce its agricultural policy by attacking the Progress Party and the Right and saying that if the Progress Party and the Right implement their agricultural policy, it will result in a furoring of Norwegian agriculture. It is quite special, because you should be able to demand from three parties that have a majority in the Grand Duchy, that they were clear about what their agricultural policy is. I have tried to be reasonably concentrated in this debate, but I cannot see what is new in the agricultural policy of the three parties. If we also take a closer look at the attitude we are now dealing with, the new - perhaps - elements of agricultural policy for the three parties are that we are now increasing the target price and sending the bill to consumers, and that we are taking a grip on quota rentals. Nothing else is new in this agricultural agreement. However, looking at opposition proposals, there are significant structural proposals, and there are significant proposals to reduce red tape, laws and regulations that prevent efficient farming in agriculture. If someone has an active, offensive and forward-looking agricultural policy, it is the Right, the Progress Party and the Left who use this opportunity to promote their policies. And what I actually think the actors in agriculture are concerned about is that the Storting - when dealing with these kinds of documents - should take advantage of the opportunity to promote an offensive, clear policy, so that you know what the future is going to look like out there. It is very special when the representative Borten Moe accuses the Advance Party of creating more bureaucracy. It shows that the Borten Moe has gone completely empty of arguments, and what he says is that the policy of the Progress Party will lead to an increase in the cost of debt interest, is to shoot far away from goals. All of us in debt know what extra costs we have received under this government. The representative, Lundtigen, has understood much of the agricultural policy situation. He sees that it is probably difficult for the farmer to get something more out of this farm settlement, considering all the factors that have to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2492	I just want to say the word very briefly. When the representative Kielland Asmyhr has read both the position and the budget proposal and refers to the fact that quota rentals plus something else are the reforms he finds in the proposition, I think I have to contribute a little. What is the biggest and most important reform that has been promoted, which the representative of Kielland Asmyhr obviously has not got along with, is that we are embarking on a significant review of the price and market organisation for meat and eggs. There is a major and significant reform of agricultural policy that will have an impact on the long-term development of agriculture and agricultural policy. In addition, when the representative of Kielland Asmyhr says that the government parties have not made their agricultural policy visible, I would say that the agricultural policy of the government parties has been made visible through a 100-page budget proposal, which has been sent to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2501	To Kielland Asmyhr’s expression ‘active, offensive and forward-looking agricultural policy’, for which the Progress Party, the Right and the Left stand. Point 1: Take the Advance Party and the Right - away with the import protection, the world market price, they say in the setting that one cannot compete in price in Norway, while saying that it should not have consequences for lower land use. It's not related. Point 2: Theoretical belief in free pricing - fact; too little food - sky high prices; too much food - miserable low prices. But I'm going to give the Advance Party right at one point: that it's different from the Right Party. While the Right Party, as the only party, proposes to reduce the budget appropriations in 2008 by 692.3 million. kr, do not do anything similar to the Party of Advancement. After all, they have all the respect for the agreements that a majority has concluded here on the Stortinget. But it doesn't have the party on the right. They are entering and reducing appropriations for a year when everything has been adopted and clarified. It's completely irresponsible! The right would not dare to do anything similar to other industries. Right-hander believes that the people of agriculture are lying down and will therefore accept it. The right will soon experience that something else is the case. The people of agriculture will now see that there is an international need for one. There should also be a need for one in Norwegian society. This is a new situation, and I think it's the last time the Right dare to make such suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2508	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2511	I would like to thank Mr Lundtegen for his tribute to the Advancement Party. I share his view regarding the fact that withdrawing funds that have already been paid is at the top of «harry». But then I would like to ask Lundtigen a question: Where in the position of the budget proposal and where in the board of directors of the Progress Party does Lundtigen find that the Progress Party will remove import protection? --then we're talking about removing it altogether, as I perceive Lundtigen says. That's not the case, and I hope that's the last time we hear from this pulpit-- you should be more precise. It is true that in a situation where the Party wishes to obtain access for other important products produced by Norway, the Party of Progress must be able to do something about the protection of agricultural imports. But then I understand that the Senterpartiet allows agriculture to come in front of all other industries, among others. the important fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2518	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four, five, six. [[See pages 3849 and 3852]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2526	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2534	In the course of the debate, 14 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 2 and 5, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 4 and 6-8, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 9, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 10 and 11, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 12 and 13, by Bent Höie, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 14, from Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of Left Proposal No. 14, from the left, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to grant the municipalities the right to choose to receive all funding from the State as free funds, without designation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2573	Proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the right, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government of the State budget for 2009 requests that the symmetric input smoothing be maintained at 55 pst. as today.’» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for updated population figures for the calculation of population grants and cost-balancing for municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2595	Proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Right and the Left, is taken up to voting. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the necessary local anchoring between the funding base, industrial development and service production in the local government sector. Therefore, in the 2009 government budget, tax revenue as a share of total revenue must be about 50 pst. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the municipal taxpayer to meet this objective.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the process of introducing new cost keys in 2011, to wind up the North Norway and Regional Grant and to introduce a district grant as proposed by the majority in the Sørheim Committee. [[small municipality grant]] [[with graduated compensation and highest rate in Finnmark]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2616	Proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to wind up today’s framework funding system and to replace it with a new system of direct state price financing for basic welfare services such as health, care, primary, secondary and social services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2632	Proposals Nos. 4 and 6-8, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, to voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size of the budget asks the Government to investigate municipalities with many recreational dwellings with high costs related to services for long-term residents in the municipality but not included in the current estimates of the income system. At the same time, if such costs are high for some municipalities, please ask whether this is possible to capture in the expenditure equalisation of the income system.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in its work on cost-balancing to remedy and establish a factor that will safeguard the specific situation of the municipalities of growth.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the State budget for 2009 with a stepping-up plan for improvements to the State housing aid scheme.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to continue the pilot schemes with task differentiation and to open up new trials.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2663	Proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch an information campaign against the municipalities that tells about the challenges’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e2679	Proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, is taken up to vote. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, as appropriate, to provide a report on the extent and development of the number of users, actions and activities of the qualification programme and the development of local government expenditure on social economic assistance per year. 1 May 2008’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit legislative proposals on the right to user-led personal assistance early in the autumn of 2008 so that the law can be enforced from the end of 2009.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the State Budget for 2009 to maintain the system of municipal corporation tax.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e3046	During the debate, 24 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 4 and 5, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposals No. 6-14, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 15, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left Draft No. 16-21, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 22 and 23, from Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 24, from Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 24, from the left, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement the drifting of all dairy cows from 1 January 2024.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e3085	Proposals Nos. Twenty-two and twenty-three, from the right, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The proposal for a new agricultural agreement is not accepted.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for transfers to the agricultural industry of the State budget following previous consultations between the relevant business organisations and the Government.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e3107	Proposals Nos. 16-21, from the Party of Advancement, to voting. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The proposal for an agricultural agreement is not accepted.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for transfers to agriculture in the State budget without prior negotiations.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: «The story asks the Government of St.prp. [[2008-2009]] No 1 specify the number of laws, regulations and administrative provisions to be taken into account by agricultural operators and promote a concrete simplification and reduction plan.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asked to specify the taxes and taxes levied on agriculture in connection with the presentation of the 2009 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for concrete measures for the reduction of taxes on agriculture to be promoted by the Government in the context of the presentation of the 2009 State budget.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system of tradable production quotas for cows’ milk which is not limited to county or regional level but which is made nationally.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e3149	Proposal No. 15, from the Advancement Party and the Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to liquidate the Norwegian export subsidies to cheese production through the turnover tax applicable from 1 July 2008.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e3165	Proposals Nos. 6-14, from the Advancement Party and the Right, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to concreteise the extent of the agricultural bureaucracy in a presentation to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a strategy for the red tape of agriculture when the 2009 government budget is presented.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to present its own Annual Report on Agriculture Policy by spring 2009.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to allow the removal of the requirement of residence and the regulation of the prices of agricultural property.’; Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The story asks the Government of St.prp. [[2008-2009]] No 1 promote concrete measures for the red tape of agriculture.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring proceedings before the Storting to introduce its own control centre for the dairy sector into the Competition Act.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement an embellishment of the legislation in the milk production sector. Key elements of such a decoration must be an increase in the maximum quota for individual and joint farms, a freer movement of milk quotas and the abolition of the distance limits and the number of participants for participation in joint farms.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to double the concession limits in egg production.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring proceedings before the Storting to amend the regulation on the processing of meat and dairy products abroad, inter alia, in order to make the rights sold in the auction negotiable.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e3223	Proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Advance Party, Right and Left, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring an action before the Storting to amend the law on the prohibition of division of land.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests the lifting of the distance limitations and limitations in the number of participants in joint ventures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e3245	Proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, is taken up to vote. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to intensify its efforts to develop niche and special agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the next agricultural settlement that cooperatives also have to lease allowances up to the quota ceiling.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that an effective follow-up to competition in the dairy market is established under the supervision of the Competition Authority and that the Government gives feedback on the state budget’s status for 2009.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e3514	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Advance Party, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The proposal for a reindeer management agreement is not accepted.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for financial measures to the reindeer industry for a transitional period in the State budget without prior negotiations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e3545	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, the Christian Party, and the Left, are taken up to vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present its own forecast of reindeer activity by spring 2009.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-18.ana.ud638e3667	There is no record. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
