ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e228	The representative, Ulf Erik Knudsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e231	On behalf of Karin S. Woldseth, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals on demands for police clearance for all those who work with minors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e236	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e250	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3942]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e266	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 55 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 65 minutes, Progress Party 40 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 10 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government - within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e277	There is no doubt about what the expectations of the process around the long-term defence plan have been. Firstly, it has been that we should finally achieve a balance between tasks, structure and financial resources, a good-bye to uncertainty, conversion and frustration, and a desire to have a firm framework. This is an easily understandable wish. But it's also a desire to get a defense that can solve the problems. We have recorded that there has become growing concern that it is really possible. There is no doubt that the major changes we have seen in the Defence have been necessary. We've got a new security policy picture, and this had to give us a new defence. It has meant many and rapid conversions, a lot of frustration and a lot of uncertainty, but there has been no alternative to the process we have been through. I think that's all reason to stress that during this process a lot of right and important has happened. We've got a better balance. We've been given a qualitative boost - we see, for example. What's happened in Homeland Protection -- and we know that we're going to get qualitative lift pretty soon, as we see in Maritime Defense. But the media image has in many ways been characterized by many of the immediate problems that the Defense has faced, which were not least targeted by the Defense Chief in his interview with NTB at the end of April, where he tells us that we must now cut in practice, training, fuel consumption and ammunition, flight hours, sailing hours and training days in the Army. It's clear that this is a concern, and it's supported by a steady look in the press. Therefore, there are not just questions now about creating a balance in the long term. We have a serious challenge that we need to address now, and where it is not possible to wait until the impact of structural measures has been achieved. Therefore, the focus must also be on the first few years of the long-term programming period. I want to say that I think maybe too much of the debate has been about what's going to happen in a 20-year perspective, and too little about the way there. Now there's been a desire among the parties to make a broad deal. With experience from the conversations that have been, I would like to say: It has been an honest wish from everyone to get a settlement to send the signal that it is firmness and tidyness to base their business on. It's been a clean process and a good tone, but we didn't agree. Those of us who belong to the opposition felt that the government was not willing to reach out enough to solve the immediate problems the defense is facing, and willing to build up what we see as a very clear minimum for the defense to be able to solve its problems. Therefore, it was not possible to reach the agreement that we all probably wanted to get. As I mentioned, one of the objectives has been to complete the work of balancing defence. In essence, this is a calculation operation, but of course, there's a lot of sense in how the defense is to be arranged, and there's a lot of discretion behind the calculations themselves. There we met the very first problem in this whole process. Neither in the defense chief's investigation, which is underlying, nor in the proposition, is there any particular explanation for this judgement - what the moments have been - and there is also very little explanation for the numbers. Thus, although this is not explained, the Storting has been invited to set an economic objective, a figure, for the 2012 allocation. But the Storting has not, with the material we have received, had any prerequisite to verify whether this objective is correct or not, and when the consequence of this objective was to force everything within the framework that was then established, there must have been more transparency about the premises than it has been. Yes, in fact, what should have been a calculation for the Storting became a matter of trust and faith: do we believe in the numbers, or do we not believe in them? In fact, here's a bunch of questions: what's a satisfactory balance? What's the imbalance now? What is the right level of investment? We are invited to reduce the investment volume by SEK 1.6 billion per year. But what does that amount say? Why isn't it $1 billion? Why isn't it $2 billion? For Storting, this appears to be the ‘think of a number’ game. We are invited to accept an investment gain of 0.5 pst. per 1 % years. Well, what if we get hung up on, like it's been so far? When do they get 800 million? kr as proposed by the Government? What is the right level of investment, sailing day and flight hours? What do we do until the structural measures take effect? Have we now got a grip on the problems associated with price rise? How important are the structural issues? My feeling is that they've been oversold at the expense of e.g. the level of allocation. If I perceive the Ministry's message in these areas correctly, they send the Stortinget the following message: Take it easy! We've figured this out! We've arranged this, but this shouldn't bother the Storting. I'm an educated lawyer, it's probably a long time back, but in my profession, of course, we're interested in what people mean, and we're even more interested in why they mean it, and what the premises are. So we have been told too little, so it has not been possible for the Storting to follow up the invitation to determine the amount we are going to impose on the entire Defense in 2012. I am aware that there are heavy professional assessments, which I respect, but I must say that during this process I have also experienced that the concept of ‘professional military assessments’ is probably a rather over-sold concept. I want to give an illustration of it: we have heard that there were professional military assessments behind the fact that the MTBs were to be phased out, and it certainly does. But my impression is that we get different professional-military assessments depending on whether we're talking to a general or an admiral. And that's just right. That's the way it should be. I believe that the defence committee has worked for the three years it has been, after traveling around has experienced that there is a wealth of professional-military assessments - many shades, many important points of view - and that is just how it should be. The point is that they must be broken against each other, and it is the task of the National Assembly to change the sun and the wind. It is not the task of the national Parliament to adjourn. It is the task of the national Parliament to assess the professional advice we receive, but professional advice is different. This brings me to a point I want to make, since I am on my way out of Norwegian politics in a year's time. If I were to remain in the Defence Committee, I would have one clear request for reform. It is that the defence budgets were written in such a way that the Storting could gain greater ownership of the details of it and greater ability to determine the major figures. With the debate we have now had on important levels of operations, I think the Storting should take responsibility for talking about practice activities, about sailing days, about flying hours and other important things for the defence to be up and also in the short term. It would mean far more detail, more work, but also, as I said, more ownership and greater responsibility. But I get to say to those in the department who listen to this: Relax! It's too short for me to do anything special about this now. Then, of course, there have been questions about setting a target for budget development per year. 2012. I understand that this is fascinating in many ways, and in many ways it is also right, except that we in Norway lack the mechanism that makes this number appear to be something other than a pious wish. I've been here so many years that I know that the Storting is still setting targets for budget development, which is rarely implemented. In fact, as it has been lately, these measures seem as much as the maximum figures. It is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, the Minister of Defence or the head of defence, but it is, of course, the tough priorities that must always be implemented in a government that has not yet been achieved. Rightly, we have now had a relatively useful percentage of the fulfillment of the last four-year period, but there is every reason to stress that the failure has been clearer at the end than at the beginning of the period. It's actually what's being made as a defenselift, plus 800 million. kr in 2012, is no more than a hundred million above the level of the red-green government itself in the last two budgetary procedures. So maybe there won't be that much left of it. That we lack an opportunity to lock the amount, we can't just think about a number and determine it. That's why the minority wants - i.e. The minority of the population, but the majority of the committee - to build up budgets differently. This is shown in the setting, so I will not use my time on it now. But I would like to stress that what we are facing here is quite a fundamental question: how do we want the defence budget to evolve in relation to other budgets? We must note that this, which is one of the fundamental institutions of society, is constantly losing to what is in itself urgent, but which is about how good the standard of living in this country is going to be. That's great what we're doing in all the other areas, but we're now letting the very basic institutions confused, and that's not good enough. It requires political will, and we're trying to manifest it by the fact that unfortunately this time it wasn't possible to reach an agreement on this. But we hope that the leadership that is now needed is exercised in the context of the 2009 budget. I believe in many ways that it's going to be the test whether the government really wants to rebuild the defense. We need to see a material improvement in the 2009 budget compared to the 2008 budget. Otherwise, we must note that the government is entering the electoral year as a great disappointment in this area. So the question is, how are we going to rebuild? I do not have the opportunity to ‘run’ through this post, but I have to openly acknowledge that on the question of whether it is more expensive, the answer is yes, it is more expensive. We believe that with as much growth as the state budgets in general have gone over the last few years, it is economically possible to do so. We're going in for a structure that's plus/minus $1 billion higher than the government's going in for. We believe that we need to do something about the immediate operational problems we are now facing, so that the competence of the defence does not conflict. And yes, it costs money, and yes, we're going to take the price rise question seriously, because I'm still not quite sure if the head of defense and the Department of Defence speak the same language in terms of how to increase the budget. But we must be careful, and we must ensure that the special increase in defence prices is explicitly stated in the budgetary documents. If not, it'll just be the general price rise you get. With regard to the individual structural measures, other speakers from the Right will come back to this. For my part, I just want to stress that most of our money goes to the increase in the scope of the Army, phased in in the long term. This cannot be done from 1 January 2009. It has to be done during the period. But we want to build up support and management elements, and we want to get to a fourth battalion. We want Home Security to keep its crew training. We want to keep the Defence Operational Headquarters where it is now. For the sake of the northern regions, we want to keep the Olavs protection. We see no reason to weaken the central management of the defence by moving the general inspectors out of the Oslo area. Then someone will probably miss that we don't go deeper into security policy issues. It's not least that although the government explains too much, there's no innovation we have to decide on in the proposition. That's why we just have to say that we're kind of on track here. In conclusion, I would just like to stress one thing: NATO membership is still very central, and it is important that we build it up under it in practice, partly through our efforts in international operations, but also through the provision of access points at home. It's about exercises. This concerns the Joint Warfare Centre and the need to put AWACS activities at the top of the structure. With this, I would like to address proposal No. 10, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e320	The representative Jan Petersen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e325	In fact, in the last seven years, the Right Party and the Labour Party have had about the same amount of money for the Defense, except for the current year, where the Right has 200 million. kr more. But when the Right now goes in for a significantly higher amount, I find it very strange that all the professional military advice on how to use the increased appropriations has been added. Yes, in the option from the right, the whole FS 07 is actually zeroed out. Now it's just bases and location that are important to the Right. Petersen has often said that you listen to the professional military advice, no matter where it comes from. My question to Petersen's representative is: what has happened when you turn down everything you previously thought it was important to focus on, as you now increase the appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e332	One of the points was that I started counting on what the structural measures that the government has proposed, really means, and it's surprisingly small. It's plus/minus 1 pst. of the budget. The vast majority of changes actually make the government itself. We have then assessed that some of the measures it proposes will not be at the best of the defence. They're there because you want to force yourself into a frame that gets too tight. I agree with the Government on one point, which is actually written in, namely that the level of appropriations is of great importance. Then we get it, and then we say yes, we understand that the head of defense's call for help that he expressed to NTB at the end of April, must get an admissibility response, because it does not help to wait for the changes to get money for it. We also see that we listen to the demands and wishes that have come to build the Army. It costs money, too. That's what we call a professional-military council. So we feel very, very confident that we have solid ground under our feet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e339	I'm not going to fuck Petersen's representative to continue another period on Stortinget. But that might be desirable, because I would like to welcome the initiatives that come about that the Storting should be more involved in the specific budgets. In addition, it is also mentioned in the Committee's remarks that we are not so much gear on this long-term planning, for it hosts a reconstructed situation that does not necessarily create the best debate for the future of defence. But then there's an occasion like this: economics and structure are important for balance, and of course also for the tasks to be carried out. But I haven't at any point been able to see that the opposition, nor the Right, has contributed to the debate on structure, has come up with some positive, concrete suggestions on what we can do with the structure, so that means can be released for more operational capability. Is it that Right sees that this structure is locked, now and for all future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e346	Many structural measures have been taken in the past. What we're talking about now is in many ways the final round. I believe that the Red-Green Government too is aware that there are no more measures than those currently on the agenda, which can be implemented without having a far too dramatically reduced defence. What we're talking about now is the last little fine-tuning of the structure. Then it is basically my opinion that I think that these structural measures have taken too much of the debate. The entire debate on FS 07 was focused precisely on the structural measures. There has been a little bit about the price rise mechanisms, but most about the structural measures. When you see what the economic scale really is, it's actually amazingly modest what you can get out of it. I don't think you can solve any problems for the defense by going into the remaining measures the government is proposing, which is 275 million. kr increasing to 375 m. kr in 2016. We have to put the light on other parts, as the Right does, and then you don't get beyond the level of allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e353	I am very much in agreement with the description of the process that the rapporteur gave in an excellent way. We all agree that it would have been desirable to have additional funds for the defense. When we are in the situation that there is a framework, and that it was a common priority to increase the operationality, I see that the right is actually heavier in the structure than what we in the positioning parties have described. How do you explain the choice that has been made? The next question is: why has it been decided when to give priority to the northern regions, to put Olavswacht as a number? 1 and not the Defence headquarters?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e362	Our assessment of the northern regions is that it's what seems to be out there, and that gives fighting power in the balls and the powder, which is what's crucial, not what's excellently good at lying elsewhere. That's why Olav Protection is important as a symbol, but it doesn't want the Center Party to go into. But it was one of the premise Samuelsen now gave, which really worries me. He talked about the frame being given. Well, there's only one body, one institution, in Norway that can give it the framework, and that's the Stortinget. It's the Storting that's granting authority. The size is the only one who has the frame in his hand. Then the Storting must not feel limited by someone else telling Stortinget what The Storting is going to set as a frame. It's a strange notion of the role of the Storting Center now expresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e370	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e373	First, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the way he has dealt with this matter. I think the position is properly drafted and a worthy document, as a document from a parliament should be. Then I would also regret that there was no broad settlement. It would have served the defense, and it would have served the country in this matter. Thus, it is also the government’s proposal for a long-term plan to be adopted, with some minor changes. This is in many ways a good plan, both in the short and long term. The defence receives a real increase in the budget of 800 million. NOK 32 billion compared to the year’s level. These 800 million. kr comes at the top of the annual wage and price compensation which the Defense must have in order to adapt its cost growth and which means a real strengthening of the budget by 2,5 pst. With this promise, the government reverses the negative trend we have seen for many years with ever-reduced defence budgets. With this plan, the Government corrects previous imbalances and establishes a long-term and sustainable balance between defence tasks, structure and level of funding. The long-term economic balance in the long-term plan is sound and based on the assumptions made by the defence manager in his professional recommendations. The Swedish Defence Research Institute, the FFI, calls this a change of pace and believes that this will reverse the negative historical budgetary developments we have seen for many years. When the plan was presented shortly after Easter, the opposition in Stortinget called the plan both inconclusive, thin, that it contained unnecessary vocabulary, had an imbalance and was without financial coverage. It wasn't surprising. It's just like it tends to be-- whoever's in position. However, when the suspension is available, there is a very large consensus on the major lines and the overall defence policy we are going to pursue here in the country ahead. It's important, and that's good. Disunity largely depends on how many bases to maintain, and is actually no scale on whether we have a good or a bad defense. It's not like the more bases, the better defense. That's exactly why the Chief of Defense proposed to gather forces to get an even better defense. No one is surprised that the Advance Party keeps all the bases. But remember that when the Advance Party was a budget partner with the Bondevik II government for three years, there was not a single uplift for the Defense - no, the downturn just continued as before. But that the Right, who has been with the Workers' Party since the change of defence started, now disregards both the Defence Policy selection unanimously recommended, and the Defence Manager suggested in his professional military position FS 07, I believe is arousing. There have also been many questions about the army's capacity and our ability to participate in foreign operations. It is true that in recent years the army has had a high burden on foreign operations, but it is not that the defence personnel in general have a very high burden. The army was in January 2006, when the current Minister of Defence took over after Kristin Krohn Devold, at a bottom level with only 2,100 employees. Today the number is increased to 3,100, i.e. an increase of 40 pst. The proposal for a long-term plan foresees a further increase of 3,700 employees. And it must also be considered whether the Army should not be further extended in the long term. This is where we have the big challenges. It's clear. The government takes Norway’s international responsibility seriously. The UN and NATO are the cornerstones of Norwegian security policy. Nevertheless, Storting's eagerness to send soldiers to foreign operations must be proportionate to the resources we have. That's why we need to build up the Army in those areas where the personnel shortage is greatest - such as intelligence, communication, logistics and management functions. Secondly, increased contributions need to be made, in particular from the Air Force and Maritime Defence, as well as increased use of HV personnel. In this way, if we take the increased elements from the other defenses, we can continue the high contributions to operations abroad. The government continues its clear commitment to the north in its long-term plan. It also has implications for how the defence is to be organised. The defence presence in North Norway must be strengthened. We show this by the fact that the increase for the Army will come into Inner Troms. At the same time, the Inspector General of the Army is moved to Inner Troms. The Headquarters of the operational management shall be added to Retan. We're relocating the commanding training for HV from Værnes to Porsangermoen. All of this is the opposition. Furthermore, Ramsund shall have the departmental management of the marine mine. Alliert training centre is also located in the north. Bardufoss shall be the main base for the helicopters. There is disagreement within the Committee as to whether the inspectors should be at Akershus or whether they should go to the defence sectors. In any case, the Workers' Party believes that by localising the inspectors and their staff functions in relation to the activities of the defence sectors, we will create a closeness to the core activities that will strengthen the possibilities for good and efficient management and sound management of the resources. We think that makes sense. It's also a struggle if we're going to have one or two joint operating headquarters. Government Parties consider that there is a need to adjust the command structure in order to improve the consistency between the apparatus to be controlled and the departments to be managed. We are therefore going in for one headquarters, and that FOHK in Stavanger and Landsdelkommando Nord-Norway are gathering at Reitan. This is not least because of the central importance of the northern regions in the future. We all know that our new Shield MTBs were not included in the Defence Manager's recommendation, nor in the Defence Policy Selection. That's why I'm very happy that we're now getting this in place. These vessels represent an essential resource for both maritime control and denial of navigation. The MTBs complement the frigates in coastal operations, and with the new frigates and MTBs, we're actually going to have one of the world's most modern marines. It needs a coastal nation like Norway. The Chief of Defense proposed to cut the HV force down to 30,000 men. It was believed that the Workers' Party was too drastically reduced after HV had reduced its strengths in several rounds. At the same time, everyone agrees that the quality reform in defence has been very successful. That's why it's good that we now say to continue the strength of the day. HV-17 and HV-18 are merged into one district and established at Porsangermoen. HV-07 and HV-08 are located at the Water Camp. The last one has received a lot of attention, as last week we had a big fire in Fromand there, among other things. The HV teams were strongly involved and did a great job. That's why it's important for me to clarify: it's not like HV in the Agder states are being laid down. The same HV teams that belong to the district today shall remain there. It's only the management that needs to be moved to the Water Camp. Thus, local knowledge and the local benefits will be intact when HV continues to live on in Agder, and the strength can be used in the same way as today. That HV-01 on Rygge continues as his own district is also good. Bardufoss air station shall be developed as the main base for future helicopter structure. It's natural, because the operational centre of gravity will be in North Norway. Nevertheless, there will be a need for a deportation to support the maritime helicopters associated with the frigates and the Coast Guard in the south. The solar aeroplane station must be considered in relation to such exposure. There is reason to believe that there are potential synergies with the civil helicopter environment on the Sun, and we ask the Government to come back to the Stortinget with a case on this. The duty of protection is the very support of the anchoring of defence in the people. We have to take care of that. Therefore, the protection obligation must be continued and reinforced. In the last few years, there has been a focus on the low proportion of women in Defense. By imposing session obligations on women, we're going to take a step further to get more women. Personally, I don't think we're in target until we have introduced equal protection obligations for women and men. The time is working for such a solution. Only one year ago, both the Right and the Advance Party were obliged to sit. Now they're for--so welcome after! VG wrote a few days ago about our special forces, which are admired by all NATO countries. One of the success criteria, according to VG, is the way we recruit the soldiers through the duty of protection, send them to courses and training around the world and equip them with the very best of weapons and equipment. Norway has good reason to be proud of the soldiers we send out to international operations. We've had a lot of veterans in foreign operations up through the ages. Some have unfortunately also been damaged. A lot of people are suffering from telescopic injuries. We have a special responsibility over these. Therefore, it is good that the government has taken hold of these matters and now, among other things, I. investigates a reinforced protection of personnel who have been injured in foreign operations. This important work that is now taking place, the Government will come back to Stortinget as its own case. I am pleased that the opposition is now also concerned about this matter, a matter that Minister of Defence Stroem-Erichsen really put on the agenda when she joined. Finally, humans are the defence's most important resource. The government will invest in the employees and will therefore intensify the recruitment and retention of qualified defence personnel. An increase of 1000 employees is added up to about 17 000. I also believe there is reason to claim that there has been calmness and very little criticism from the personnel organisations in recent years. Nordic defence cooperation is on the map. The defence, like everyone else, must operate rationally in order to get the most out of the resources made available. That's the way it is in every country right now. Therefore, increased multinational cooperation is important in the future. I believe that the Nordic countries have a lot to work together on that will provide a better defence for everyone. I think this is a new, exciting side of the Norwegian defense that we're just seeing the beginning of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e417	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e420	The Workers' Party and the Government are constantly talking about the Northern Territory Government's operation. How is this talk and promise of this bet compatible with the ever-destroying of the presence in the just northern areas, both at sea, in the air and on water? There are still fewer exercises in all areas of defence. The coastguard actively sails fewer days, and today, among other things, Oil protection has been proposed and Home Protection is reduced, just to mention something, and there are fewer districts in the north. Is the representative eye satisfied with this development in relation to the Soria Moria Declaration and the great investment in the north, or is the truth that the economy does not extend to, among other things, the investment. in Afghanistan is taking too much of the resources available to the defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e429	What the representative, Mr Bredvold, is saying is completely wrong. If there's anything this government has invested in, then it's the north. I mentioned in my post a number of points that we are now in favour of strengthening the northern regions and that the Progress Party is opposed to. It's not like the Coast Guard's sailing less. When we get new coastguard ships, which have a completely different capacity, it can't be that it's just about doing how many days they're out, if a boat reaches a twice as large area at the same time. We must be realistic. It is not the case with the Defense that it is about spending the most money, we also have to get the most out of the money that the Stortinge grant every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e441	First thanks to Signe Eye for nice words. I want to say that it wasn't so difficult to put up the work that way, with the very focused way in which the committee has worked, and also the slightly informal way in which we have had the opportunity to work with parties other than those represented in the committee. It's a shame we didn't make it, but it's because of some very specific problems that we had to solve and that we didn't agree on. One of the things that's worried me the most is the difficult operating situation we'll have in the first few years of the long-term period we're now discussing. My question to Signe Eye is then simply: What does the majority intend to do with this? These are not the things you can wait to address to the effect of the remaining structural measures. There is something that needs to be addressed now. Does this mean that a significant proportion of the notified increased funds will now come immediately in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e448	It is a rather simple picture, which says that when we maintain the MTBs, Südreisa, Mågerø, Jørstadmoen and things that cost money, it starts running from 1 January. If there is to be any credibility in this, it must be that it also comes quickly into the budgets. So I have said, and we also agree, that our greatest challenge is the Army, but the Army cannot be built up as quickly as the lasting costs we are now taking with us, which means that in the long term we must get the Army up to the number of personnel we have said. We also believe that we need to look further at the construction of the Army at the end of this long-term period. I can therefore assure the representative that we will follow up on what we have said. We're going to have a match between tasks and resources in the future, and we're going to follow that up in the 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e457	The representative Signe Eye lamented in the introduction of his post that there was no broad political settlement, and it also regrets the Christian People's Party. Defence Policy Selection had a recommendation to the Government to add a process to work on the new long-term defence plan that involved contact between the Government and all the parties at Stortinget in the process. This called for the Christian People's Party in several contexts. The possibility of calls before the proposition was submitted to Stortinget was also requested by other opposition parties. In the Christian People's Party, we were particularly concerned about the problem of three parties in government agreeing, and then there will be little room for action. Then we negotiated later, and it turned out that the room for action was very small. Does the representative Signe Eye see that we had served to talk in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e464	I don't think that's what made us disagree. But I just want to remind the representative of Sahl that there were three parties in government when dealing with the previous long-term notification as well. Then the Workers' Party went in and agreed that we would get a broad settlement. There was a plan where you didn't have a balance, but just put it in: if you take it, you take it! That's what we're struggling with in these days, because in the current year we have a plan that's out of balance. Now we're cleaning up, we're gripping, and now there's going to be a match between the money that's being given, and the problems that the defense is going to do. When it comes to getting into such a process at an early stage, I think it had nothing to say. There were good processes, but the distance was too large between us, so we didn't get into the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e473	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e477	What worries me and the Progress Party most about the situation we're in is the economy. It has been a long-standing concern. I am now on the Defence Committee for my third period, and it has been a downward curve for me for all the years I have been sitting there. The fact that there was no settlement, I shouldn't comment so much, because we wouldn't be involved in this agreement. It also stranded quite quickly, and I later saw why it stranded. Some say that there are a remarkable number of things to the Right and the Progress Party agrees on in this proposition if you look at comments and suggestions. So how the Right had thought that this agreement would end, I don't know, but after what I can see in retrospect, there was at all no movement in the attempt at conciliation. But that was a good try. And that might benefit the defense-- I don't know. But it's okay to try. We in the Progress Party want a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face in today's and tomorrow's societies. Furthermore, the nature of the defence must be such that it can easily be adapted to the various threat images. This can best be ensured by maintaining a fundamental defence with core tasks in Norwegian soil, but with the capacity to participate in operations elsewhere in the world. We see the safety situation of Norway as very complex, not least in view of our geopolitical situation and resource conditions of even greater importance. The basic relationship in this context is our position in strategic geography. The geographic location of Norway suggests that we will be in a situation where we could easily be victims of conflicts and crises occurring outside our neighbourhood. A conflict, no matter where in the world it occurs, will immediately result in increased tension and sensitivity in the north as a result of transport corridors to land, sea and air. The defence shall be a security for our independence and a tool for the governance politicians to care for Norwegian interests. The tasks and challenges of defence are characterised by global developments and national and international political flows. Norway is like a small country on the outskirts of Europe in a special situation as we have large national wealth in the form of oil, gas and fish. We need to protect these resources, we all agree on that. Norway’s non-participation in the EU demands that we have a good relationship with the EU and a positive development in relation to EU military engagement in both material and military operations. Nordic defence cooperation continues to develop, and we see positive trends in cooperation in different areas also in the form of joint operations abroad. The Progress Party is in favour of such cooperation, but we must not forget that we are primarily a NATO country. Cooperation in NATO will be essential for our security. We therefore see it as natural that Norway does its utmost to help NATO maintain its activities in Norway. Furthermore, we are concerned that NATO forces will continue to exercise in Norway. The geopolitical situation in Norway also demands that we have the ability and the willingness to care for our interests in our seas. It is therefore important to focus on the northern regions as well as on NATO. Russia’s growth has had a major impact on the development of Russian defence. We now see a Russia with super-power ambitions and a willingness to strengthen its military capabilities. Russia’s capacity building signals that Russia wants to strengthen its presence also in the northern regions. The large number of overflights near our border shows that our neighbourhoods are strategically important in the future as well. It is therefore important to strengthen Norwegian presence and monitoring. The Progress Party does not see Russia as a concrete threat, but we assume that situations may arise that will require Norwegian capacities to safeguard our interests. The defence has more tasks than caring for our interests in the military and foreign policy context. Defence is an important contributor to civil society. Civil-military cooperation has developed in recent years, and we see good synergies in intelligence and counter-terrorism. Defence is also an important player in the context of natural disasters and other major events in society. Conversion has marked the defence since the 1990s. The Progress Party has understood that the activities of the Defence have had to be reorganized from the old Cold War scenario to a more modern and flexible defence. On the other hand, we have repeatedly pointed out the danger in the previous long-term propositions by reducing the defence organisation to the level we now have. Furthermore, we have warned against the economic development of defence. The continuing under-financing over recent years has had a significant impact on the Defence Organisation, not least on its employees. This has led to great frustration and uncertainty, which has resulted in many people choosing to leave the Defence. Under-budgeting has also resulted in a large gap between the tasks the defence is assigned to and the tasks the organisation is able to perform. It is very regrettable that the responsible governments have not taken the defence warnings seriously regarding these abuses. The situation of defence today is marked by what seems to be chaos and uncertainty. It almost doesn't go for a week without us seeing in the media that the defense has to take some action to compensate for the lack of economy. Cut in activities that are fundamental to maintaining the defence as an operational organisation threatens to weaken people's confidence in the defence. Defence as a policy tool is also limited as a result of a lack of capacity for action. In particular, we see this clearly in the context of our operation in Afghanistan. The Progress Party fears that Norway will not be able to make an adequate contribution in Afghanistan if current developments persist. Essentially for us to be able to contribute forces over time in the field of foreign missions is that we have a sufficient well of strength. The army is now well below the minimum force. The army is not robust enough to support and strengthen our foreign assignments. The army must also be strengthened in addition to the Government's proposals. The army must in the long run be doubled in order to meet its obligations. This isn't just the Progress Party that says and means, the head of the Army has also said this. It's not just the Army that is suffering from today's economic situation -- this is continuous for all arms. Air defence has had to cut the number of flight hours, and this has gone beyond maritime surveillance and other activities. The defense now has problems giving the pilots enough flying hours. Despite the increased Russian activity, the Government does not intend to strengthen the budgets enough to maintain a good enough presence and monitoring in our airspace. The marine defense has worn out for a number of years with a lack of modern ships. Until recently, there has been uncertainty about the acquisition of new MTBs. Fortunately, these are now acquired. The new MTBs will provide maritime defence with a large capacity in terms of monitoring and response tasks and will represent a large flexible resource. Sea defence has now introduced new frigates and will soon have received all the vessels. The new frigates will represent a good contribution to the Maritime Defense. It is therefore regrettable to note that these ships are likely to be largely at berth. The government has not strengthened the organisation enough to operate these ships continuously over time. The situation today is also such that signals have been received that ships have to be added to berths in the last six months to save money. Unfortunately, the situation will hardly improve once the phase-in of new MTBs has been completed. We think it is regrettable that the number of operational sailing days in the Maritime Defense Department has been reduced, and that this seems to be a trend from the Government. The Coast Guard has also suffered a significant decline in operational sailing days and helicopter hours in recent years. This goes beyond what the Coast Guard has to do. The Coast Guard has important tasks in the area of sovereignty and fisheries oversight. Furthermore, the Coast Guard is an important player in the monitoring of ship traffic and environmental disasters. We are opposed to the proposed reduction of Homeland Protection, and in this context we will show that Homeland Protection is, in fact, our national defence and thus must be robust and well prepared for their mission. Homeland protection is an important resource for civil society, which the last week was not least reflected in the support for the fire in Fromland. In this context, we want to keep HV's presence and districts as they are. We look with concern at the government's lack of understanding of the importance of maintaining Olavs protection as an operational marine base. Olavs protection is at the heart of our operational activities and has central tasks for our allies in the northern regions. So we're going to go against a defeat of Olavs protection. FOHK has shown itself as a professional and efficient headquarters through its activities at Jåttå. The fact that the government now wants to shut down FOHK, testifies to short-term thinking and focus on things other than economics and predictability. The Progress Party wants to maintain the FOHK on Jåttå and to keep Reitan in its current form. We note that the Government mainly wants to continue the integrated strategic management system adopted at Stortinget in 2002. We have also noticed that the Government in the proposition indicates that there will be some changes in the model. In this context, the Progress Party considers that the mechanism clearly entails conflicts related to the role of political management and the role of professional military management. The Progress Party considers that after five years the scheme should therefore be evaluated in its entirety and presented to the Storting in an appropriate manner. We will therefore make the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the integrated department and defence management system.’ As we want to review the experience of today's management structure, we do not want the inspectors and their staff functions to be organised outside the Defence Staff before the results of an evaluation are available, and this is then assessed against that background. We're wondering what the number base of this proposition is. In our opinion, it is not possible to verify the claims and calculations made in the numerical material. The fact that we are constantly hearing that there are contradictions between the military and civil leadership of the defence regarding economic reality reinforces our impression that there are chaotic conditions with little overview and control in the ministry. The Progress Party is concerned that the Defence must have budgetary frameworks reflecting the ambitions and tasks promoted by enlargement and government. Only by taking this seriously will the Defense have predictability in its organization. Finally, after all these words, I want to praise the Government at one point, that it finally saw the light with regard to South Travel and Mågerø and the importance of these stations for air surveillance and alerting, despite the fact that the head of defense of FS 07 proposed closure. In this process, there has been pressure from many for maintenance, not least from military and civil organisations. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal of the Advance Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e531	The representative Per Ove Wideth has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e536	The defence economy was the most central one in the representation of Width's posts just now. In the setting, the Progress Party also says that the defence's tasks must be a guiding factor for the economy, and not the opposite. My question is: is this also true of all other tasks in society? How is the economy to be governed if all sectors are to define their tasks and the Storing is to be granted according to what they all think is the need? Isn't Wideth concerned about our total economy, if the economy is to be governed by the tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e543	I'm a little surprised when I get this question. I thought we were going to talk about the defense today. But the representative Arnesen will obviously brush this over on other things in society-- and would like to. I'm not worried. I'm worried about what this government is doing, but I'm not worried about what we might be able to do, because the total economy in Norway is very good. The country's going down, as somebody says. So how the representative Arnesen can be concerned about the future and the economy, it really surprises me. As far as defence is concerned, the Progress Party has, through a number of years, put forward proposals aimed at providing the defence with more resources and a larger structure. And with the economy that Norway's country now has, there are no problems, with the eyes of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e552	I totally agree with the Progress Party that we have an incredible amount of money. But maybe that's why it's important, for example. ensuring the quality of a case as large as the long-term defence plan. We're talking about many, many billions. We can get into the situation that we have so much money that we don't care about it once in a while. But then the Progress Party, like others from the opposition, says that you can't believe numbers. And that's quite possible. But it's the best numbers we've been able to generate. So we know there are two uncertainty variables. 20 pst. are in this Chamber, whether we as politicians will be able to follow the long-term plan with the budgetary commitments required. It's politics. But when it comes to the 80 pst., which of course goes on the defense's own ability to put into life what we're going to decide today, I have great faith that they're going to do it. If I didn't believe it, I could have used words like this that the Progress Party uses, that there's uncertainty and chaos around the Defense. For example, why can't the Progress Party aim at this? instead of making concrete proposals as to what it will be like?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e559	Over the ten years that I have spent at Stortinget, we have made concrete proposals on how the defence should look, including: with a much better economy and a much better structure. On the other hand, SV has tried to downgrade the defence, with its small, small appropriations and great disagreement around the structure. The structure is important, and it must be the starting point for the good economy that the defence should receive in the long term. We also say that in the setting, here are opportunities for a better economy. There are possibilities for a larger structure. But then SV must also be on this path, because they are now in the government position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e566	With regard to the issue we are discussing today, I note that the members of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, indicate that Norwegian participation in multi-national peace-supporting operations is important as a contribution both to international peace and security, to the credibility and relevance of the UN and NATO and to Norway's own security. The majority also believe that it must be a prerequisite for our participation in multinational peace-supporting operations that they are anchored in a clear and unambiguous UN mandate. The representative Width points out the importance of Norway being a NATO country. Does not the Progress Party agree with the strategy adopted by NATO for its international road choices?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e573	Yes. NATO is clearly our anchoring. On the other hand, we have seen over several years that the UN, with its military operations, has not been the good anchoring it should have been. Among other things, we can refer to what happened in Kosovo. We have great confidence that NATO will take care of the military operations. The UN is a very good organization, which can handle other things, for example. humanitarian missions - but not military missions. If the representative Samuelsen reads on, he will see that in his own comment we say something more about why we believe that NATO should be our strategic partner on military missions, but that we do not have the confidence of the UN that Samuelsen's representative obviously has in military missions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e578	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e581	I'm going to start with one of the three words that we use today when we talk about defence for the protection of Norway's security, interests and values. I've been thinking about starting with the values, because it's a sign of change and, at my discretion, also contriving. The torment came not least in the last week when the U.S. Supreme Court made a decision for the third time quite clearly that all prisoners are entitled to a trial in civil courts. There's no doubt that what we call habeas corpus--no one can be imprisoned without law and judgment--no is fixed for the third time. We're going to take that over. That's very good, because those values are what we have with us, whether they're U.D. people or our solar data out there. That's the basis for everything we do in international operations. Now, as I said, the third time this has been confirmed. Now it's possible to change, because there's no majority in Congress to support the Supreme Court's decision. We're going to get there -- and it has a doctor quite clearly -- that there's no such thing as "anti-combatant." The old, good realization that prisons of war is a rendition to be respected is going to come up with more and more. It's not that a sudden is a so-called enemy combatant, that an even is not a human being. Everyone's human. It is the basis of the entire Western cultural community, and it is the basis of all state building and politics in the countries with which we are allies. I want to tell you a little story. One night a few years ago, I watched a good cowboy movie instead of watching Skavlan, and the movie was, of course, "Texas Rangers". The action took place in the 1800s. It began as a civil protection. Rangers pulled out. They got them, they shot them, and they hung them. They did this all of a sudden one day was one who said, "But aren't we as bad if we don't take them home and give them a trial?" And then they brought them home. They didn't float self-esteem, and in fact, the prisoners were convicted in Texas. That was the basis for the Texas Rangers. I'm not sure that today's Texans have the best qualities from the 1800s. For us, it is important that the catch agreement we have with Afghanistan is up and going, and that the catch flies that we know have been charged by the Council of Europe are not in Norwegian territory. We know that no one in this Chamber wants to go back to Iraq. I have not heard anyone who has suggested or been involved in the idea of that one time. I have not even heard anyone want to return to Operation Ending Freedom. The reason why I'm dealing with this is because we're going to have a defense first and foremost for Norway, but we're also going to give capacity to international law. Our women and men who are out, go with flags on their breasts, they go with uniform. They cannot, like the diplomats and the U.D. people, sneak around anonymously in grey suits. These people really have to answer for this. We see that there are going to be 17 May some places in the world just because of the efforts of our women and men out there. I myself had the pleasure of joining the UN's 30th anniversary. Several of the officers who asked me, well, Jacobsen, when are there going to be more of us? Now we're getting so old that we're starting to say, "Have you seen it, or have you seen it, and do you think of him as a messenger at our bar? When are we going to get new refills? There we have even more challenges -- to meet Soria Moria, to get back and get in place in the United Nations. We'll do that. We are not particularly welcome in some parts of the world, and unfortunately it is linked to the Muslim world. This will have to follow for us in the future, and we're going to have to arrange our assignments for that. We have colleagues in other countries. During a hearing in the U.S. Defence Committee, it was just found that one actually had to deal with torture. There's no doubt about it. They've made it clear, and they don't want to know about it either. What we can take with us afterwards is that this was a strong warning from American military lawyers: we can't do that. There were strong warnings. So this rests on us politicians. This goes on values. But that's the new signal we're looking at in the world -- that we're supposedly going to have other values move up higher. It will make it easier to defend our contributions internationally. And maybe we're going to get the right balance by listening to professional military advice, for example. from professional lawyers. That's what we started with when we got FS 07. I myself have to say in military outrages and at the debate meeting around the country that it is not a foreign power, it is not a hostile power, or Sweden or Russia, that has presented this. It's the collective professional militant Norway that has submitted FS 07. If we weren't listening to them, if we weren't listening to them, we'd be reasonably reset here in the hall. When this is the case with conciliation, I have recorded that the more conciliation and the more we have mixed into it, the longer we have moved away from the professional military councils. At the same time, I'm going to say that what we're still up to is pretty good. There's no doubt that it's a good step forward to get a defense balanced. If we look at the quality assurance process, it's the best thing I can see that we can do, and it's reasonable certainty that the economy is there. Then we'll see what we politicians do when this is going to be dealt with in budgetary terms. That the defense can handle these problems, I'm not in any doubt about it at all. There's a pretty good list of their problems, what they're going to do, and what percentages we're going to collect. We may have to do more, but the important thing now is that they start working with the intentions contained in this long-term plan. Because the defense does that, it'll be a lot easier when we're next in line to come here and sort out our budget and contribute to it. Nothing is so easy as to contribute to us from this hall if this whole great establishment, which is so important to our country, has done its job. They've had a huge challenge, but I think they're going to be able to do it, and then it's going to be so much, much easier to say that well, then we're going to contribute to our long-term plan. At the same time, we know that these long-term plans tend to be unfulfilled in this room. But now the mission is there, and the challenge lies there for the defense. And the fact that we've got a grip on the proposal of 800 million. From here, that we take from investment and take over into operation, that we take the right grips, as we have already done in the Army, that we know that the grips we have taken could be followed up in practice, make me very sure that this is going to be, and is, a good long-term plan. There has been a lot of talk about where the operating lease should be. I've told her that we're not going to move her to Bodø, we're going to move her home to Bodø. She's been on a long-term tour where she should never have ours-- but let's not forget, there were maybe other threat images that led to it-- but at least she'll be present in North Norway and in the northern areas where she belongs. Because there's no doubt that what's from this room is considered to be the most important challenge for the nation of Norway, the interests we have up there. And that's where we've learned everything -- in this fine policy of the north to the Russians, which is now beginning to come back to old greatness in a new way. It's this fine policy up there, which we can be proud of, that we're going to be involved in international operations, where we so clearly know that it's not just breaking up with military decisions, it must be a balance. This balance sheet has been safe for Norway for 50 years - and, for all things, together with the alliance partners we've had. Therefore, it is good that there is now a note in the option to buy back the Coast Guard. In the previous growing-up period, we tricked the Norwegian people a little bit, because we said we're now betting a lot on Coast Guard. We didn't. We put her out to private, didn't let 50 cents from here. The hard Coast Guard today, with a huge increase in the operating budget. When the Progress Party says that we have as much money as we have never had, it is true, but then we should have the ability to buy the ship back, of course, if it is possible in negotiations with fleet teams that now have them. For Coast Guard is a symbol. It is not only a symbol in practice at sea, but also the symbol of the finely tuned policy we have in the north. We are present with a civil element, which is Coast Guard, which is driven by military forces, and then we also have the Marine as a muscle to lie there as a reserve, far behind, never too visible, but present, without it being the ones for the daily operation and handling of the north. This is Norwegian defence policy in a long, red line. This should be the point forward to be the policy, and we should also have it with us as the basis of ideas when we are going into international operations. We can, we've done this before, it's been respected and followed up by the Russians as long as we've stuck to our self-imposed limitations. So a little bit about protective duty. It's an illusion -- I want to use the word illusion -- that we have a duty of protection. Of course, it's not a duty to protect in practice, because we don't call people in. When you look at how many people come in, there are very few. But then it's the luck here that we're all a few that we want the most women possible into the defense -- and that's based on the needs of the defense. That's what men can take over. We're not good enough, all of us. The defense is also dependent on recruiting women. That's done sessioning 4,000 women. It's going to be very exciting to see how many of these people choose to go into the service. If the actions taken by the Brestrup Selection etc. start working, we might let go there that we have to summon people against their will. Because I don't think coercion is of the good. Now we get to try this with session. I hope the defense changes so that women understand that they are welcome. Some of the members of the committee were in Stavanger, at Madla, for the 14 - day order of trust. There it was found that there is actually still harassment, in different ways, by women in the Defense. We need to sort this out, so that women never doubt that they are really welcome in Defense, and that they can, of course, take training in leadership, get good jobs and evolve - as men can. I think we'll be there in the long term. So we have, as I said, the defence needs to get access to good people, but of course we also have the people's need to be represented in the defense. We can never think of a defense without e.g. Nordics or Westerners. The fact that it is based on geography, there is no doubt about it, but also from the point of view of society and others, there should be broadest possible recruitment to the Defence. Maybe that's the most important thing. I've even met people high up in the defense who have said that when they entered the recruiting school, they could never think of being in the defense longer than they needed. Then it went two weeks, then it went five months, and then it became their career path. That's what we have to bet on: they come in, they start to like each other, and they feel that this is a place where you can make an effort and then of course work. Finally, please look at the economy: internal priorities and change measures - it's really politicians' language, it can almost not get better, or worse, so far, but there I think it is. If the defense goes in and takes its part in the mission, even I from SV will agree to say that then we may have been involved and decided for the defence we want, and then we will have to finance it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e635	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e639	As usual, there is a wide spread in the posts of the representative Jacobsen. It was a lot about the United States. But he now came back to the defense at the end, so thank you for that. The Northern Region bet is important for the government parties, and this is specifically mentioned in the Soria Moria document. The advance party is very concerned with the operating budgets of the marine and coastguards, that sufficient funds are provided for sufficient sailing days, because we have a large area to cover. So my question is, how does SV view that our new frigates should be able to operate continuously with only two crews per. frigate? And how many frigates will continuously be able to sail with so few personnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e648	I'm not going to assume my primary position when it comes to frigates and MTBs, because now we have them, and now we have to operate them in the best possible way. I'm not in doubt that we're going to get it. How many teams we're going to be able to do at the beginning, I can't stand here and guarantee, but as it is in the long-term plan, and also in the current budget, we're going to be able to operate them. We're going to get very close to the situation that we were in in the previous big time, where the Progress Party was part of the government base, when one actually had to add a good part of these boats to the dock. We're not going to get there. We're going to operate these in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e653	In all the years I have been a member of the Stortinget, the opposition to Norwegian defence policy itself has been in SV. Since we are now approaching the end of this period of government and SV has had government power for three years, I would like to ask Jacobsen how he sums up his victories from this period. Or the question asked more precisely: What has happened in Norwegian defence policy that would not have happened if SV were not in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e658	First of all, I would say that from SV's point of view, we always have our defence friends. But now it's not like friends are people with the most HIV money after. Friends can also be a given challenge, which I went into my article. I think what we've got the most in mind, and I'm proud of both our representative in the Defence Policy Committee and, in part, my job here in the house, is that we've been able to say that there's going to be a balance between professional military overbudgets -- too much will one have -- and the fact that we politicians come in and dry say ok, but we want to put it and it in the pot, and then they get the rule after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e663	The representative Bjørn Jacobsen was deeply concerned with values in the Defense, and it is also the Christian People's Party. He moved mainly beyond the borders of the country and linked it to the United States and to the treatment of prisoners. It's also Christian People's Party busy. But now I want to bring it home a little bit and take the challenge from Jacobsen seriously in terms of values in the defense. So we have a capacity in Defense today that has a lot to do with the family situation of those who are employed, with frequent movements, with soldiers who work a year and a half to get this to hang together, and in the case of international operations, we see that our soldiers who can be used there must be too often. This greatly affects the family situation. It wears on the individual soldier. In addition, we also see that the veterans who have come home are struggling with mental problems and believe that they are not being followed up. Does the representative Jacobsen see that we need to strengthen the economy of Defence? And does the representative Jacobsen see that the army must be strengthened if we are to maintain the quality we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e672	After all, the army has been strengthened by 1 000 settings - 40 pst. When it comes to the veterans, I totally agree that there's a lot we've done in this government. We're the ones who have started the good work, and we're going to continue with the good work for the veterans. Then, of course, the representative is concerned with something important that concerns the family situation of people who are not least in the operational service, who must be both here and there, who are on international missions. There is no doubt that we have to do even more so that they, as the representative says, will not work half a year and a half. Now I feel that people who are in the Defense are willing to take on extra burdens at least over a few years, at a time when they are very active in the Operational Service, like the rest of us did when we were younger. But there's no doubt that this has to be put up so that we're not on more missions than we have people to. In addition, we know that we have a mission in the United Nations that remains, so we don't have to take on more than we have enough people to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e681	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e684	It has been said and written that the defense stands at a crossroads in connection with the processing of this long-term plan. The Christian People's Party would rather say that the Stortinget stands at this crucial crossroads. What military defence does Norway need? Does government and growth have the will to grant what is needed to get a defense where there is a balance between ambition and resources? Today’s debate shows that there is considerable disagreement about both the size of the financial imbalances per year. today, the structure necessary for the future defence, and the price tag of operations and material acquisitions. Security policy developments have a number of features that point to the need to strengthen defence. These include increasing opposition and global rivalry, increased competition for resources, sustained challenges for the UN and NATO, not least related to international operations, and increasing challenges in the north. Since the Christian People's Party does not have its own representative in the Defence Committee, we have not been able to flag views directly in the vote, but I would like to thank you for the close and good cooperation we have had with the case rapporteur, and it is a pleasure that the opposition is largely united in the vote. We have been involved in negotiations on settlements, but have felt the unwillingness of the government parties to get an impact on change. The Christian People's Party called on the Government to follow up the recommendation of the Selection of Defence Policy on a broad political defence settlement as a basis for predictability. The answers we received from the Council of State have shown that she has not seen this need, or that the challenge of bringing together the three parties in the Government was too great and the compromise was too compromised. We never got in touch along the way, and it is paid today with a split adjustment. Government lots and opposition lots have different views on the structure to be adopted. We support many of the Government's amendments, but in some areas the Government goes further in rationalising than the Christian People's Party believes is advisable to ensure important elements of Defence. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that the geopolitical location and strategic resource interests of Norway make us face increasing challenges in our neighbourhoods. This dimension of our security policy situation separates us from many of our allies. Therefore, much of the government party's argument for ending the Olav protection is incomprehensible, not least when the location - the municipality of Tromsø - is used to defend closure, by having little or no impact on business or jobs. It's not business and jobs it's all about. The consequences of closure are not seen in relation to our need for NATO support or overall societal preparedness. Proclaiming increased strategic importance and presence in the northern regions and at the same time putting down Olavs protection as the base of maritime defence is very difficult to understand. The operational command structure of the defence is today constituted by the Joint Operational Headquarters of the Defence Department at Jåttå in Stavanger, with Landsdelskommando Nord-Norge at Reitan near Bodø. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the Government believes that there is a need to adjust this command structure, and the view of the party will be presented in a later article. But I just want to clarify for my own part of I will vote for the move of FOHK to Bodø, in line with my vote when FOHK was created on Jåttå, where I voted against. There should be bases for all defenses in both North Norway and South Norway. The army has its main base in North Norway in Inner Troms, which becomes a force center and a core area of the Army. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the Army must be strengthened in order to become relevant. In addition, we are occupied with it must be good employment for the employees. Both the Defence's own organisations, the Labour Inspectorate, the National Audit Office and the Defence Ombudsman have pointed to an excessive labour pressure for many of the employees, which the Christian People's Party believes is the best possible solution. The Christian People's Party shares the Government's view that air defence in the future should continue the breadth of its capabilities, but concentrated on fewer bases, assuming that equal trade unions are co-located where it is rational. I want to finish my post where I started: we are at an important crossroads, where the elections and decisions are crucial for the future of defence. I would remind the majority in the Chamber that it will only take a simple decision to rebuild the Defense, but it will take many years to rebuild it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e721	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e724	The Christian People's Party has long talked about the importance of the North and everything the party will do to bet there. The presence of the defence is an important part of the Northern Territory operation. I think there's a broad consensus about that here in the house. When the Christian People's Party is flagging the northern regions so high, there is reason to ask why the party is going against moving joint operational management northwards to Bodø. This is a very concrete effort in the north, which also has professional military support. This was one of the main reasons why there was a breach in the negotiations that could have led to a settlement. Does the party not believe that the defence or anything else can be directed from the northern part of the country? What is the reason why the Christian People's Party is going against such a concrete move to the northern part of the country? Now I ask for the party's view and not the representative Sahl's view.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e734	First of all, I find that there are different perceptions of why it became a breach. It's not like there was a break because of FOHK. We clearly stated that the Christian People's Party did not negotiate with an ultimatum. The reason for the breakup was that there was no movement whatsoever in the government parties to get a total arrangement for a settlement for which the Christian People's Party, in cooperation with the other opposition parties, could go in for. In the case of FOHK and moving, arguments may be used both for and against. It's about moving a headquarters that was created a few years ago. The Christian People's Party's view here will be explained in an article later today. Then, for my part, I would like to say that I am happy to belong to a party in which one is given the freedom to vote on the basis of one's own conviction, which the Workers' Party's representatives could not do in the previous round, when the headquarters was moved to Yåttå.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e743	I see from a proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left that the Christian People's Party will support a future strength structure as described in the proposition, with the exception of the number of Homeland Districts. I think it's good that they don't want to support a reduction in the number of Homeland Districts. But the number of Homeland soldiers has been reduced in several stages. For a few years ago, there were 83,000. Now it's down to 50,000. In the proposal as it appears that the Christian People's Party will support today, there is a reduction of 10 pst., that is to say 5,000 men. I don't think this rhymes particularly when you say that you don't want to reduce the number of Homeland Districts, but you want a reduction of 10 pst. - 5,000 men - in the number of soldiers. Then the question is, how does it relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e750	The Christian People's Party is very concerned about taking care of the Home Office, and we are very concerned about what is being proposed about the removal of home security education, which is currently taking place on the Guards. We see it as far more important than trying -- as we did -- to compromise on 45,000 home-protection soldiers. We know that there is only a small part of the Home Security Force that is operating at all times. Our attempt to reach a compromise was that we put ourselves on 45,000 Home Guard soldiers, and we don't see it as the big problem in terms of the ability of Home Guard in the future. We see it as much more important that the Home Security now does not swallow up in the Army, that we take care of the Home Security's own identity, with the task of taking care of the local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e757	I understood that the representative Sahl did not entirely agree with his own party. But at the same time, I found that the party has chosen to give priority to Olav protection over headquarters. I'm sorry about that. We're concerned with Army operations. I note that the Christian People's Party, on the basis of its budget, is lower than what has been the government's budget so far. When the Christian People's Party wants more bases: will it not go beyond operationality when the budgetary framework is tighter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e764	The Christian People's Party has no problem admitting its past to the Defence. We have been concerned for some time that there was a need for a round where the defense went on its own to see where it was possible to rationalize. But we have come to the conclusion today that we are now at a minimum level. The Christian People's Party will follow up what we have said and be in the position to have a defence and a structure in the future where there is a link between structure and the crew we have, and the economy that will be in place. We believe that the Army should be strengthened, as should the government parties. It's just so sad that we didn't get concrete numbers on the table and an opportunity to negotiate about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e769	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e772	Let me begin by thanking the rapporteur for a very thorough presentation. He gave a good description of the situation around the attempt to get to a wider platform than we could. The majority now deals with the Long-term Plan of Defence, where the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV have prioritised the defence of the people, presence throughout the country, and have a special focus on the north. I find it a pity that there was a breach in the negotiations on a defence policy settlement, when the Right, Christian People's Party and Left focused on increased structure, while, as government parties, we would rather focus on building up greater operationality by building up the Army further in the north. Let me say, however, that I am pleased that in many important remarks there is a unanimous committee that makes it clear why we need the Defense and that supports the main direction of the Proposition. In the change of line, the rapporteur pointed out that the Stortinget, this hall, determines the frame. We don't disagree with that, but with the priority of structure that the opposition had, they would, no matter what framework we had, have chosen to strengthen the structure at the expense of operationality. Norway’s geopolitical location and strategic resource interests mean that we face increasing challenges in our neighbourhoods. This dimension of our security policy situation separates us from many of our allies. For this reason, the Nordic regions are the main strategic focus of the Government. The most important role of defence is to help ensure Norwegian sovereignty and prevent and address the security challenges in our neighbourhoods, thereby contributing to the security, our interests and values and to regional stability. This also suggests that attention should be paid to national tasks such as sovereignty and crisis management through military presence. The challenges in our neighbourhoods are partly a function of the global challenges, and as such can only be solved in a broad multilateral framework. At the same time, Norway is facing challenges in the north, mainly nationally, related to ongoing resource management and unresolved jurisdictional issues. Potential conflicts of interest in the area of resources mean that we cannot rule out situations of security policy. The strategic importance of the northern regions both economically, environmentally and militarily, combined with the uncertainty associated with the development of Russia, suggests that this is an area of high priority, including in the field of security and defence policy. The challenges put together demand that the defence must be able to solve problems both at home and outside. The challenges in our neighbourhoods seem to be greater than previously assumed. Therefore, the design of the operational structure of the defence must focus heavily on national needs and tasks. In order for Norway to have a credible capacity to perform these tasks, sufficient capacity is required. At the same time, Norway's contribution to international crisis management through the UN and NATO remains of fundamental importance. The alliance must therefore also be reflected in the strength structure, with Norwegian forces being based as much as possible on NATO standards, in order to be able to operate closely with allies throughout the conflict spectrum. This requires strengths of adequate quality, response capability, endurance, strategic and tactical mobility, self-protection and training standards. It is suggested that the activities of the Defence Agency in each part of the country are concentrated to a slightly greater extent than today. This is necessary both to create robust environments of competence and to ensure greater predictability for employees and their families and for the Defence Host Communities, and is also in line with the recommendations of the Defence Policy Selection and Defence Study 2007. A higher concentration is materially justified for operational reasons. It will optimise the interaction between the different parts of the Defence and enhance the ability of joint operations, while reducing operating costs and increasing resources thereby contributing to operational activities. We choose in the proposal for a long-term defence plan to strengthen the Army, especially in the north, and to bring together the Air Force helicopter environment at Bardufoss. Maritime defence is also going to be strongly represented in the part of the country with one of the world's most modern fleets, among others. new frigates, new MTBs and a heavily modernised coastguard. In this respect, let me mention that we assume that the management of the training and training centre remains in Ramsund and is not moved from there. The important training of our allies will be concentrated to the north in the future. Similarly, to strengthen operational management, today’s two operational headquarters are merged into one, where management resources on the operational side are concentrated in a robust environment. The headquarters is located at Reitan near Bodø, thus helping to strengthen the military presence in the north. We notice that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left seem to go in to retain parts of the management at Jåttå in Stavanger, and thus will not contribute to either a collection of the Defense Operational Management or a bet in the North. The defense depends on clear management and clear command lines. Decisions must be able to be taken and implemented at a high rate. The move from Jåttå to Retan will not have consequences for the continuation of the Joint Warfare Centre, JWC, as the command structure of NATO is now organised. Norway’s host country obligations towards the JWC will be fully met. Another thing we're taking is that the top leaders of the defense are located where they have most of the business. The inspector-general is moved to where the main activity actually takes place, such as: means the General Inspector of the Army is moving with his staff to Bardufoss. The centre party has achieved a strong commitment to the Heimevertet in relation to what was proposed in the 2007 Defence Study. We are pleased that HV will in the future consist of 45,000 soldiers and commanders, and that the commanding training for HV will take place at the garrison in Porsanger. At the same time, we are greatly increasing the number of yearbooks in the Army, which will have the greatest consequences in the North, and here we are pleased to have the other parties agreeing to say yes to the defence, and to say no to the defense chief's desire to transform the entire Army into reputable battalions. At the same time, through a painful process, we have accepted a greater concentration of the base and support structure, which will provide a better balance between economic framework conditions and defence tasks. This has made it possible at the same time to maintain an important capacity such as the MTB weapon, which can have an important strategic role in the future if the level of conflict in the north increases. It will clarify, together with new frigates and the decision to purchase new fighter aircraft, that Norway focuses on national sovereignty and presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e798	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e801	The centre party is engaged in district policy. The central party is also a member of a government which appears to be engaged in North-Area action. How, then, can the Center Party defend that Olavs protection is being laid down, a war station that is being used by our NATO allies, also to a great extent for training? How does this relate to district policy and north-eastern action?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e806	Let me be honest enough and say that it was painful to propose the closure of the Olav Protection Force. We would have liked to have managed to keep that base. But I have clearly stressed in my post that operationality was priority no. 1st@item: inlistbox When we were to choose between the operationality and the bases we have at our disposal, we had to make some painful decisions where the operationality weighed most heavily, and that's the main reason for the conclusion we came to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e811	It seems that the representative Samuelsen is grossly exaggerating what the so-called structural measures should lead to. So the government's proposal is 275 million. kr increasing to 375 m. kr, or less than one quarter of what is proposed in the field of investment. And in the case of Olavsverm, we're talking about an amount somewhere between 17 million. SEK 32 million. kr, and it's all right when Samuelsen becomes a question of «operation», as he says. The reality of the difference between the Government's and our Northern Territory bet is that, on our side, we are betting on operations, sailing days, flight hours and exercises, and on Olavsværr, while the Government is betting on the removal of the Inspector General and the transfer of some more activity to Retan. We'll bet on combat force. The government is betting on office workplaces. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e819	I cannot entirely agree with the description, but I find that the Right as opposition party has reached some other conclusions than they did when they were in position. Once again, I'm going to be honest to say that I would like to think that we had the opportunity to get a higher frame, but we couldn't. Within the framework we have at our disposal, we have prioritised operationality, and I think that was a proper priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e826	I have great respect for the priority of the Centre Party and the Samuelsen representative. How, then, will the representative explain the closure of the Home Protection Education Centre on the Guards? There is, of course, a place in Norway - well - but it is part of the basic operational capacity of Home Security. This is the place you will be trained after the conversion in 2001 so that you can be functional within the task of Home Security. The parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Lars Peder Breck, has, in Trønder-Avisa on 1 March, almost given a blank guarantee that when it is on the Central Party and settlement within the Government, it will have to be saved. But my central question is: Decommissioning the educational center of the Guards -- is it making the Home Guard operational, or is it making it something completely different? How can the Center Party eliminate such a heavy element by ensuring that the Home Protection system becomes operational in a good way both at the very pointed end and in all other ways in our defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e833	What our parliamentary leader has said to the newspaper, the representative of Dørum gets to bring him up to speed. With regard to the operational aspects, we have to remember that in the Defence Study there was a reduction in Home Security, down to 30,000 men, and also a cut in the Protection Forces. We were able to get it up to 45,000 men. It's no secret that the Center Party was early out there and signaled that they wanted to keep both the Guards and 50,000 men, but in the compromise that exists, we didn't get there. This continues to be the case with operational means that are decisive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e840	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e843	I want to throw some other perspectives into this debate. Left – and I – it is very good that in Norway it is now in fact a recognition that the defence must get more money. It's interesting that a government with SV is able to promise 800 million. kr more to the Defence. But I also believe that SV was the last to prevent a broader compromise. That's interesting. It is quite important that this debate be conducted in Norway when you see how to kiss in our neighbouring country Sweden. As a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union, it is my impression that the more command stations you set up, and the more penthouses you have, the less defence budgets become in many places. What is now happening in Norway is in any case positive. The left sees it that when it is like this for Norway, it is because Norway is a rich country towards the north. We are totally dependent on our security commitments in NATO through the job we've been willing to take on in Afghanistan. And we're starting to get very clear about the challenges in the north. It is still the speech of the Chief of Defense in Oslo Military Society last year, where he among other things. addressed a previous report from the Swedish Defence Research Institute on potential threat scenarios in the north, which should not be speculated about. But at least you're prepared to keep what you need to have in defence policy, as well as everything else like a country that Norway has to do. I therefore think it is worthy that both the Chief of Defense's study and the Committee of Defence Policy have eaten the debate so much that all political parties have to make a choice. Do we now use less - and do we go the path of confusion that it leads to - or are we willing to bet more? The left has been involved in turning this course - we are willing to bet more. I also think it is quite worthwhile at this time that we can read a chronicle of three Nordic Defence Heads - ours, the Swedish and the Finnish - on which areas you can cooperate. It is improperly positive, and I think these perspectives must be included. So I'll go into what's been the main challenge of the Left. Firstly, we would also like to thank the rapporteur. We thank you for a real tone when we tried to find something in common. This applies to everyone who was in the conversations, and those who were involved in the conversations - I would like to underline that. But now that we're going into this, I'm going to say that the big concern was, where in the world is the balance point in terms of the relationship between money use and structure in the defence? From the first day I entered this house, in 1977 - with a long stay after that - until today the defence budgets have been among the most numerically budgets we get to the Stortinget. It's almost been an investigative task trying to get the numbers and how they're defended. I'm absolutely sure this is inside the head of the defense chief and in the head of those who work under him, and I think this a good piece on the way is in the Department of Defense. What the representative Petersen and the majority write about in the committee position is that Stortingen wants to be more involved. The size doesn't want it to be that you give money - because then, in the next round, discover that pilots don't have a licence, that you don't get to train them, that you don't get to sail where you're going. We want to know where the military operating bottom line exists, not just the economic one. We in the left think it is positive that the defense acquires accounting systems that count the flow of the crown in the defense, so that you keep it in order. But we would have liked to see - and we will have that later, in the case of the Defence Logistics Organisation - that the defense was also able to measure well. We learned a few years ago that in Norwegian school they were unable to measure. People couldn't count, people couldn't read-- they had to have a knowledge promise. And I'm going to go into how in the defense you set real goals and have real order functions, so you see what you get back. Then it's also necessary to say -- because there's sometimes a culture in Defense because there's someone sitting there waiting for happiness to occur at the next rematch -- that it's not that happiness occurs at the next rematch. I want to give the defense director the credit from here that when he points to a debate - which he has done in the Defence Study - we have to make some choices. The Chief of Defense and I can have opinions that we don't share, but that's not the point. You have to eat it so much that you get it on the table. And I now expect the Defence Logistics Organisation to pass the test that we want Norwegian school students to pass when it comes to measuring results in a meaningful way. It is not that if you just hand out a check to a base somewhere, you could say that it is a customer relationship or an order relationship. What do you measure? How do you take advantage of the overall competence of the defence in terms of people, investment and equipment? It is a very important debate, and that is the debate we have not had. We'll get it. Therefore, the Left joins in the considerations put forward by the majority. When the budget is presented for the autumn, we want to know what we get operationally. And we're being tested. We see that every day. When we're in operations and doing good jobs -- as far as I can see -- in Afghanistan, we're being tested. We're being tested in all sorts of ways. The representative Petersen really wants the Storting to be more involved in many of the painful choices that until now have been pushed into behind the closed doors of the Ministry of Defence and in the top management of the Defence Department. We want to know what is what, and we want to know what we get in this area, as in every other area. So to the matter today. How does Left resonate? First of all, we have learned that in terms of the money to be taken away to find the balance, the main emphasis is on cutting investment and making it more efficient. The base structure is a small part of it. It's not irrelevant, because I understand psychology. But then no one has to come and say that the base structure is what blows up the management of the heads of defense. It is the ability to improve efficiency, and it is the choice of investment. I experience, for example: The defense chief's posts in the Evening Post -- which he had with the two Nordic colleagues -- as an attempt to find some answers to it. I think it's positive. But then to Left's reasoning: when we want to keep Yåttå, it's because we're very busy keeping NATO in Norway -- not NATO out of Norway. We don't think we can think in cold war terminology, but we have to take care of those areas where we're perceived to be all right. Joint Warfare Center is here. This means that NATO has a commitment in Norway. It also applies to AWACS operations in the ORLAND. It's even suggested to shut down the main flight station in Ørland and move it to the center of Bodø, without anyone doing the maths. The government has slowed down. But to chase away an AWACS operation, not to be sensitive to what a political-psychological landscape is for -- that someone is there -- not to take over that we have just renewed a pre-storage base with an American marine amphibian brigade, which is located in Trondelag, must count. We need the friends we're going to have. We need the operative we can have. And then, of course, we have to do what we're going to do ourselves. Then I come to the left's three other perspectives. First of all, we find it completely pointless to put the training center on Guards, not because you're going to be sentimental because the Guards are in Trondelag, but because it's a place where you teach people that Home Security is what it's supposed to be, and not just what it's going to be when you've been through everything else. The fear of the left is real. We fear that with 45,000 on the paper of completed training, we will, after a few years, be given de facto a home protection of 30,000-35,000. We don't get people recruited from the smallest municipalities. We get people exclusively from the biggest cities. Homeland is losing its nationwide character. And what happens then is that we lose part of the anchoring that makes the Norwegian people willing to pay dearly for what they don't immediately see, whether it's ships or planes. Defence also rests on the ability of the people to be involved and see things around them. It is, in my view, an incredibly short-term measure, just as the closure of Yåttå is. With regard to the proposal to shut down the Homeland Districts in Agder, we can't see the big logic in it. Nor can we see the logic of putting down an excellent base on the Olavs protection. We're looking at it as part of our entire northern basin. In our budget we follow the Right and the Advance Party, which is again close up to the Right, far, but we have to be honest. We don't have enough money to phase in a fourth battalion under the Army in the coming long-term planning period, but we want to do that, and we want a escalation plan for this. That is why I am now addressing a proposal that is distributed in the seats of the representatives here in the Chamber, which I am promoting on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size is linked to the future strength structure of the defence as described in the Proposition Table 6.6, with the exception of the number of HV districts. The Ministry of Defence is authorised to initiate the amendments. It's a goal to build a fourth battalion under the Army. The government is asked to return to a escalating plan for this.» When we do that, it's because after some of the visits I've been on, I know how small the army is. I'd like to know that, for example. Telemark battalion is fully set up with all its strength capacity and not only partially. I know -- without going into numbers here -- that it will mean a practical difference, and I understand how far our army is under pressure. We get it measured daily in Afghanistan. So is it that what we see in Afghanistan now has been a debate on in a number of other European countries in the past. One can read about it in the United Kingdom and anywhere else. They are tested in practice in areas where there is no longer a theory, but that is how things appear in practice, which is absolutely crucial. I would like to say that I am proud to have met people who have been to Afghanistan, both officers and soldiers. There are well-motivated people who know what they're doing. They're doing a reasonable job. I would like to say once again that the Norwegian officers, with the head of defense in charge, should have commended for having formulated very clearly that it is also necessary to have meaningful civil missions when acting in such a country. One of the things that has made a strong impression on me is how the responsible officer is deeply concerned about a chaotic civil organization in that country. We have had a big debate on the military section in Stortinget. With these words, I've given a reason for the Left's position. I have also taken up the proposal that I have made on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e901	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e906	First, I would like to address the suggestions made by the Workers' Party and SV in the setting. I'm glad Dørum said what he said about the defense. This ain't no Tomb for the Defense. This is actually a long-term plan that now reverses a negative trend for the Defense, giving the Defense a new direction forward. That we're different from our neighboring country, I'm happy. Today, the Left has made a proposal on the Army that is significantly weaker than the right-wing proposal, and, as the representative now also says, this should not be phased in until the next long-term. It gives a little bit more credibility to the left, because the left is actually the party that has given at least to the Defense for the last three years. They have cut about half a billion dollars both in 2007 and 2008. What I want to ask the representative is: does the proposal mean that it will not be phased in until the next long-term?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e917	The representative Signe Eye has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e920	Let me first start by saying that when the left has to have chord negotiations with itself, we let go of chord negotiations with SV. We can then, of course, promote this proposal, as opposed to Mr Øye and the Labour Party here today. The representative Eye should be happy that we dare to live out parts of the Workers' Party's lay by proposing a strengthened army. It is quite right that we want to spend a little longer than a long period of time, but we are serious about the proposal. And we travel it because we're concerned about the Army, and because it's an intrusive reality when you live in a country like Norway. So we know people who are in Afghanistan and elsewhere, and what they tell in an honest and sober way, makes an impression. That is why the proposal has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e927	The representative of Dørum has submitted a proposal to support the future strength structure of the defence, with the exception of the number of HV districts. He also said a little about the number of Homeland soldiers. In the future, there will be a 10 pst reduction. in the number of paramedics, from 50,000 to 45,000. It's not that long since we reduced the number from 83,000 to 50,000, so I don't think this rhymes completely. I thought the Left was very concerned about Homeland, which I'm sure they are. The reduction in the number of so many men is a quite significant and significant decrease.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e932	The left and this representative have basically been on the day of the judgment when we were to greet a Norwegian Minister of Finance. Then you have to have good cards on your hand. So in chord negotiations with ourselves, we've been willing to cut Home Protection by 10 pst. What is absolutely crucial in our opinion, and which unfortunately is voted down here today, is to keep training on Guards. It's an attempt to give us the Home Security adopted in 2001, with the forces of effort we have, and with the follow-up units. I am very afraid that this decision will do two short-term things: weaken the national anchoring of the Home Office. I'm very afraid that what you're going to get is coal that's being recruited from the biggest cities, so that you lose some of the more piggy areas where Homeland means something very concrete, even when it comes to defense anchoring. Then, of course, we're very afraid that this is the beginning at the end of a anchoring of the defense of the people, which is often trivialized. I've never understood officers who don't realize that you should have a anchoring in the people to get enough money to pay for ships and planes, because it's quite expensive. That's the Left's point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e940	I want to go back to surgery. I'm trying to compare the figures in the budget to the left of the defence. I find that it is approx. 200 million. the difference in kr. I have reservations that the figures in the government have proposed for the current year in the long term, and the left hand's figures, are correct. Back to this with operationality. It's possible that structure, as we've been talking about, doesn't make up the big numbers in this, but when we're pressed on the frame, each of the heads we can save on structure to strengthen the operation, will be important. Does the Left agree with such a representation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e947	The left is primarily concerned that if we are unable to deliver what the FLO will deliver, approx. 600-700 million. kr a year, we're going to have a pretty intense round dance every year in terms of parts of the structure. So we're busy. That's what's important. We believe that the changes that we have made, and which we have also proposed funded in our willingness to clean up in terms of structure, are good measures - from the NATO connection on Jåttå to the Olavsværn in the north. But the most important and most expensive of our actions is the Training Centre on Guards. And why are we proposing that? Well, it's making Homeland operational. It's keeping operational home protection, as we've adopted it. And I just have to say, with the greeting of the Central Party - and now I'd like to forget the parliamentary leader - and to the representative Samuelsen, that I don't think it's any particular good day when the Central Party is involved in the liquidation of operational capacity in today's Home Office by agreeing to vote to drop the Center at the Guards. It is probably a burden and suffering that the representative Samuelsen has to bear with him - I regret that he has to carry it with him - and I hope that this can lead to a rematch later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e952	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e955	The debate so far today shows - despite some disagreements that have emerged - that there is a broad consensus on the broad and long lines of security and defence policy. It's a force. The main defence policy objective of the Government is to further develop a defence capable of meeting the challenges of a rapidly changing environment and protecting Norway’s security, interests and values. Operational presence, in the first row in the north, is the Government's first priority. Our capacity for surveillance and intelligence, sovereignty and episode and crisis management in this area is fundamental. I'm glad there's consensus in the Storting about such an approach. The government recommends establishing a robust, operational headquarters and adding it to Retan. We recommend strengthening the Army in the North and bringing together the Air Force helicopter environment at Bardufoss. Maritime defence is also going to be strongly represented in the continent, with one of the world's most modern fleets. The training with our allies is in the future recommended concentrated to the north. At the same time, the ability to contribute to collective defence at home and abroad and to participate in peace-supporting operations are of great importance. The defence shall be able to participate with relevant military contributions in multi-dimensional and integrated operations, both UN and NATO. Defence is also an important element both in our European policy and in our efforts to further strengthen the links between the Nordic countries, which have also been discussed by many. The government wants a defence that is rooted in society as a basis for preserving its defence will and hence its defence ability. This requires a visible defence, capable of meeting the tasks assigned to it, through the necessary operational capability, presence and duty of protection. A clear representation of defence management in several places in the country is an important point in this context. The Government proposes to provide the Army with a significant number of new annual works within critical areas to ensure a robust brigade structure. And so this is in addition to the marked increase that we've already given the Army in the last couple of years. We also want to increase the time for assemblage and education. In this way, the army's ability to solve its tasks is strengthened, and the load on the personnel, who have been and are - great, is reduced. The obligation of protection is continued as a foundation for the activities of the Defence Agency and a mandatory session for women is recommended. The Government wants to be clear that the protection obligation constitutes a decisive premise for the Norwegian defence. We also want far more women into the defense. Women's session obligations are a new and important instrument here, not least to make women visible and to inform them about the opportunities that a career in Defence can offer. This is a major social reform and an important step towards a more equal defence. The defence depends on having a clear management structure and clear command lines. Proper decisions must be able to be taken and implemented. The Government has put forward measures to strengthen the ability of the defence sector to manage and manage and to ensure a robust and effective command structure. Once we have proposed changes to the base and support structure, we have done so in a comprehensive perspective. And we have priority. There are always good and rational arguments as to why changes should not be made. For the Government, the purpose of creating a sustainable defence structure, which should also be balanced in the longer term, has been of paramount importance. This also leads to tough and difficult choices in the short term. However, the government will not get out of the way to take these steps now, as an investment in getting an even better and more targeted defence. At the same time, it has been important for the defence to maintain a visible presence in both parts of the country. Bases for all defence sectors and the Heimevertet are therefore recommended to maintain both in South Norway and in North Norway. We have dedicated a great deal of space to the personnel and competence. This isn't random. A good defense is not just about material and structure. This is primarily about people. The defence shall be an attractive and secure job, ensuring the best possible performance of the employees. This applies to both civil and military personnel. A key challenge for the entire defence sector in the future will be to recruit and retain staff with critical competence. If we are to meet this challenge, we must constantly work to ensure that defence is the best possible job. The government also attaches great importance to strengthening the supervision and follow-up of our staff before, during and after foreign operations, and has promoted through the Proposition a number of concrete measures to substantiate this. Through the long-term plan, the Government wants to continue the modernisation of the Defence that was launched by the Stoltenberg I government, where a main objective has been to bring the development of Defence into a more stable and predictable path – both through investment in necessary and modern materials, through increased staffing, increased appropriations and a greater focus on safeguarding and further developing the resources and competences of the Defence staff. The government is stepping up defence appropriations considerably, by 800 million. kr. This means a real increase of more than 2,5 pst. With this promise, the Government also wants to create maximum predictability of the economic framework for the further development of the defence sector. This is essential to ensure the rational implementation of the decisions taken and a long-term balance sheet. The budgetary aspect is part of this strengthening, but that is not all. The importance is the totality of the interventions, all of which contribute to the build-up of defence, the concentration of activities, internal efficiency improvement and internal re-prioritisation of resources. This does not mean that the job is done or that all the challenges are solved. Work on further developing the defence will continue to be demanding and time consuming. However, the government is clear as to the main direction of further development: the defence must be strengthened. I notice that the opposition is trying to doubt the calculations underlying the long-term plan. In my opinion, there is no reason for that. As far as I can see, no long-term plan has been drawn up before in a broader process than this: from the Defence Director's defence study to the Inter-Political Policy Selection, then a broad consultation round and the possibility for everyone to participate through the Defence Dialogue. Secondly, we have carried out an external quality assurance, which has also been put at the disposal of the members of the Defence Committee. Case rapporteur Petersen said that this proposition left a lot of questions about the economy. I find that we have received 19 questions from the committee. At the previous long-term and during its preparatory work, the then Minister of Defence received 131 questions. I want to say that we really put ourselves at the disposal here to answer, if you had asked questions. The external quality assurance also concludes that both figures and methods used in the calculations are built on a sound professional basis. Therefore, this time the size has gained significantly more insight into assumptions and calculations than before. We've also, as I said, been at the disposal of the committee in order to answer all the questions you've had to have. But sometimes you can ask questions about whether you don't want to ask questions, maybe in fear that the answers will hit your legs under your own political rhetoric. Right at this point, I had actually expected a more credible approach from the opposition. I want to go back to the previous long-term proposition, which added up to an increased level of 300 million. kr, 1 pst. We're adding over 2.5 pst. Already the first year when the last government -- the Bondevik government -- sat, you just granted 70 million. In addition, kr. When we took over the government offices, the deficit was already 500 million. kr. The fact that you have to have credibility in terms of the violent increase that parts of the opposition add up to is a little special. The government has always wanted, and worked for, a broad political consensus on this objective and these main lines. I would like to remind you once again that the defence study has been ready for the committee and for the Stortinget in November. The same thing is true of the Defence Policy Selection. However, where there is some disagreement between the parties in Stortinget, this is primarily linked to concrete choices and priorities in the defence structure, not to the long lines, as I said at the outset. So from this point of view, it's my hope that we can work together to solve the further challenges of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1009	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1012	The defence has been underfunded for a number of years. Now the government has budgeted $800 million. In addition to today's level, an allocation in excess of the budget cuts made by the current government in 2007 and 2008, what does the Council of State see as the financing of the defence structure that will be adopted here today? We believe that the economy on which the government is founded will not hold. What additions does the Council of State see in the coming annual budgets, not just to maintain, but to strengthen the structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1017	We have described - and I have also said it very clearly today - that the basis for the economy in this plan is both internal efficiency improvement, a careful review of all material investments and an addition of 800 million. kr, i.e. a stepping up to that level. In fact, I wonder at the question of the economy that arises, also from the representative Width, who set up and supported the defence budgets of the previous government, and who did not increase the budgets at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1024	Government posts went very well until she came to the question of economics, where we just have to realize that she simply does not understand the argument from the opposition side. I don't think this minute I have, will be enough to make her understand. I really don't think this is going to last. That the government doesn't understand that we can't ask many questions when they don't put premise on the table, I don't understand. However, we understood, after a while, that it was not possible to dig into the substance at the time that was at hand. That should be respected by the Council of State. I had really hoped to use this question to get a positive answer -- a yes-answer. I'm going to try: one of the main problems has been price rise, and the head of defense made this a major point. Is it so to understand that the Government now accepts that there is a different price increase in defence than in the State budget, that the Government will base its budgeting, and that they will openly tell what the difference is?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1031	The price rise in parts of our sector is like in all other sectors. Then there is something about technological degradation, and these matters are included in the long-term plan and in the calculations made every year in connection with the State budget of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1036	The Minister of Defence called for credible behaviour from the opposition. I want to send back that announcement and ask for credible behaviour from the position in relation to not having a problem talking to the opposition before the proposition was made, at the cost it has today, namely that we have a split position. But now leave it. In his contribution, the minister focused on prioritizing personnel and competences, but I note that in the case of Home Affairs, a non-skilling priority is given. One puts the education on Guards to give a basic home security identity. So here you follow up the defense chief's wish, as we in the Christian People's Party see as a desire to pierce the Homeland Protection in the Army. Does the Minister for Defence agree that this is what we are about to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1045	I would like to stress that in the context of the long-term plan, there is no question of getting poorer competences in the field of Home Affairs. Home protection shall recruit all the personnel they need from the other defence sectors, personnel who have completed the first 12 months of service, and perhaps some of them have also been in international service. I would like to say that it is a very good and competent personnel Home Security will be provided in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1051	One of the important premises to ensure that there is a balance between the tasks that the defense is supposed to do and the money that is available is to make it more efficient for approx. half a percent per year. We know -- at least I think I know that -- that the Defense Logistics Organisation has one third of the employees in the Defense, while they manage two thirds of the crowns. My question to the Council of State is: how will the Council of State ensure that this structure and this organisation function in such a way that what to do is actually best measured, not just in terms of money flows, but in terms of measurable good results, and that what I believe the defence does - from which all other public enterprises can have something to learn - is how to go across the systems to use the people and the skills that exist. What are the thoughts of the Council of State about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1058	I very much agree with the representative Dørum that it is important to use people across an organisation. The defense is working a lot on target management, and in the case of the Defence Logistics Organisation, we - after the great work on the long-term plan - are in the process of having a thorough organisational review of it, to see if there are any changes that should be made. With regard to the internal efficiency improvement, which many have experienced, half a percent of the defence budget is 150 million. kr per year. I believe that a modern organisation must be able to cope with that type and level of efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1065	The Council of State was in its intervention on international missions and their importance. There has been a lot of talk from both the undersigned and many others about the safety of Norwegian girls and boys in Afghanistan. As late as two days ago, four English soldiers were killed in battle. Can the Council of State say that the equipment we have in Afghanistan is the best and the safest thing we can get, and that everything is good down there? If that's not the case, what's missing? And what equipment can be improved in terms of just safety, and in order to increase the effectiveness of both combat and protection and other relevant tasks? How and when will the Government possibly provide this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1072	Part of this question I get at regular intervals. I will repeat what I have said many times: I am doing everything I can to ensure that our soldiers have the best equipment we can get on the field with. It is very important, together with the fact that they must also have the best possible training and preparation for the task to be carried out. However, even with the best material, not even with the best preparation, not even with the best competence, we can exempt someone we send abroad in international operations from all risks. It's actually important that both the Storting and the rest of the population in Norway take over - when we send out soldiers in international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1077	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1080	‘Protection of Norway’s security, interests and values’ is the title of the landfill proposal we are discussing today. There has been a comprehensive process that has led us to the setting that is currently being finalised. The extensive work carried out in the defence study FS 07 and in the Defence Policy Committee has been very important for the work up to today. The government said in the Soria Moria statement that we want a modern defence, adapted to new security challenges. I believe that the proposition adds up, and that is what is now being followed up by the Storting. The government has also stated in its declaration that they regard the northern areas as Norway’s main strategic area of activity in the coming years. And this, too, I think they clearly add up to the proposition, and it's very forward-looking. The North Region bet is no longer just words on a paper, but is now realized step by step. In this case, the government has really proved its commitment to the north, and that this also applies most to the defence. The proposal to move the operational management of the defence to Retan outside Bodø is justified by the central importance of the northern regions and is one of the greatest steps taken in defence for many years. This shows that we have a government that believes that such important management functions can take place from the northern part of the country. The government has once again proved its belief in the district, so that this should not be just the district of departments and branches. I am not in doubt that such interventions will make it easier for other public establishments in the region, and that even private enterprises can have more faith in laying their head offices northwards. But most importantly, of course, is the strategic importance of this for the defence. We're well aware of all the myths that people don't want to live in different places in North Norway, and that therefore it can't be established and operated so much in this part of the country. We all know that this is not the situation in today's North Norway, but people have to work to live in the country. Another important action now being taken is the proposed changes in the strategic management of the Defence Agency, by organising the inspectors and their staff functions outside the Defence Staff as an underlying level. The General Inspector of the Army with its staff functions shall be located at Bardufoss due to the main gravity of the Army lying there. The same applies to the Secretary General of the Maritime Defense, who is located in Bergen, where the Naval Defense has its weight. The Inspector-General of the Heimevertet shall be in Oslo and the Inspector-General of the Air Force shall remain in Oslo until further notice. As is known, the Stortinge will subsequently deal with the future base structure of the Air Force. This shall be done in the light of the generation of new fighter aeroplanes and several aerodromes shall be assessed. What is now happening are important changes that clearly modernise and streamline our defence. I must say that I am surprised that it is only the government parties that support this initiative in the north and the innovation and modernisation contained in these proposals - despite the fact that all the parties in their programmes and speeches talk about how strongly they will be investing in the north. I also want to commend the Government and the Council of State for making so much effort in Inner Troms. This area has, over time, been a geographical centre of gravity of defence because of its location and unique conditions of training and education. When the government now recommends that Bardufoss air station be developed as the main base of the defence helicopter structure, this is a new evidence that the north areas are in focus. I'm not in doubt that this is a quite right bet. I am also pleased that Sørreisa will keep the control and warning station. This is important for several reasons. A continuation of the stations in South Africa and on Mågerø makes us, in my opinion, less vulnerable in given situations. Now, as I understand it, the interaction that is going on around the clock between south and north in this area works in an excellent way. In addition, it has to be mentioned that this activity in Sørreisa is very important for employment and activities in this small municipality. When the defense is well served with these stations, I think it is very good that they can be continued where they are already, and where the competence is in place. Ramsund is a well-run unit where the Marine Hunter Command is continued with adjusted and strengthened organisation. I am glad that in the setting it is also arranged that there should still be a separate department management at the station. Alliert training in Norway is an action that has been very attractive to our allies. This has until now been driven from two places--the Boom and Åsegarden camp. This is to be continued in the north - at Porsangermoen and at Åsegarden camp. Today there is a small and smooth management at the training centre in Åsegarden camp, which works in an excellent way. I am of the opinion that the defense itself must decide whether the management should still be here, or whether the best operational and economic is to add this to the Porsangermo. We are many who have had an commitment to continuing the operations at Olavsverm in Tromsø, but both professional and economic advice has established that this is not a proper priority. Personally, I believe that this base is too good to be scrapped, and that a comprehensive job should be done to find stakeholders who can use the facility in the field of preparedness and so on. Perhaps there may be an offer that the Defense can also benefit from if necessary in the future. I also ask that there be good solutions in collaboration with the University Hospital of North Norway regarding the pressure tank at Olavsverms, which has been a great help in many ways in saving lives. Through the work on the matter we are dealing with today, I have often heard that district policy is secondary, and that location should not be discussed so much. At the same time, I record that when localization is discussed, everyone throws himself at it. It is not that only the districts are occupied by the defence workplaces, but it is the districts that are most vulnerable when decisions are taken on the relocation of many jobs. It is the duty of every rapporteur to draw our attention to the impact of our decisions on the communities affected. I would also like to say that the defence has a strong place among the inhabitants of our districts. Tolerance is high, and citizens do their utmost to ensure that the defence has good working conditions in the areas they need to use. It is not, therefore, that seeing defence policy and regional policy in the context is a disadvantage - rather the opposite. Today’s safety challenges are less than previously linked to traditional military threats. The potential for terrorist attacks, major environmental and natural disasters or major accidents has increased. That is why it is so important that we have a government that is working for a comprehensive security policy, for enhanced social security and for a good balance between military and civil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1116	In St. prp. No 48 for 2007-2008, it says among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In an increasingly changing world, the main reason for the defence must be to contribute to the fundamental and timeless responsibility of creating security for the state, the population and society, and to protect and promote our interests and values.’ A newspaper said a few days ago, among other things. the following: ‘The Defence Budget is the insurance premium of a country for continued existence as an independent nation and therefore predominates all other budget items in the State budget.’ This I think is so important, so I'll take it again: ‘The Defence Budget is the insurance premium of a country for continued existence as an independent nation and therefore predominates all other budget items in the State budget.’ I can sometimes believe that it is only the Progress Party that thinks so, even though there are some good suggestions from the other parties. But that's not enough! I don't think the Norwegian people are entirely satisfied with what's going on in the defense, and with the defense. In VG on Saturday 14 June 2008, we could see an overview of the good or bad jobs that individual government councils do. With all due respect and without thinking anything negative, it was only 20.9 pst. who believed that the Minister of Defence did a good job - that is, well during the process of joining the Workers' Party alone, and even worse when you see the uprising of the government parties united. Why am I saying this? Well, it tells us that people aren't satisfied with what's going on in the defense. We have to do something about this. Either we have to drastically reduce the activities of the Defense, or we have to give the Defense more money, so that what the Storting imposes on the Defense is proportionate to the funds allocated. As this day, on 19 June 2008, ends, in the view of the Progress Party, we will not get a better defence - a defence that can safeguard all interests of the nation of Norway, both national and international. In recent years, there have been many negative headlines about defence. These have been clear statements on, for example: projects which the defence has, but which it cannot afford to own, or at least cannot afford to operate. Many examples include our new MTB boats. Although not all agree on the total, which is about $12 billion, at least it's a big investment. In addition, they will be an enrichment for the Defense, which can solve their missions better. What is then strange and sad, but that tells a lot about the situation the defense is up in, is the opinion and the proposal of the defense chief. It is suggested that we should not care about this investment and just attach the boats to the berth. Let's save 200 million. kr in operational expenditure annually - operating costs not covered by the Defence. This tells us a lot about how bad the defense is. Who is it, for example? out of business that invests in equipment that you can't really afford to own or afford to operate? I guess that's just in the defense this could go on. St. pp. No 48 deals with a lot of things. We can spend a long time debating this, but time doesn't go on. That's why I want to mention Home Affairs in particular. Some years ago, the Home Office was 83,000 men and 18 districts. This was reduced to 50,000 and 12 districts. The 50,000 were divided into three groups, and they got better equipment, all of which were agreed. Among several districts that were closed was the Homeland District that held at Kongsvinger Fortress in Hedmark. It was a shame, and today there is only a small commanding force left, consisting of a major, a captain and a lieutenant. When you call Kongsvinger Fortress, you come to Vinger Hotel, which has taken over much of the operation there. Times change, but not all for the better. The Chief of Defense wants, as I understand it, a reduction in the number of Homeland soldiers to 30,000. Then the Progress Party believes that there will be nothing left - and you can just as well put it under the Army. What's going to be determined today is a 10 pst reduction. 5,000 men, and that you put some districts back together -- this to save money. In my view, there is no line of defense that can provide so much defence for so little money. What is also very important is the locality and locality of the civil protection soldiers - the fewer soldiers and fewer districts, the less of this. That Home Security is important in civil crises, precisely because of what I said, we have seen in many situations, most recently in connection with the great fire in Agder. The flood in, among others: Hedmark in 1995 is another example, and this is how we can frame up. Then it's very strange that the government will reduce this enormously important, almost free resource Home Security is. In addition, the proposal underpinned by the Government will also help to empty large areas of land for the presence of the Defence. Another important part of the defense is our girls and boys in international service. These are people who are willing to sacrifice everything to create peace, thus creating a better life for most people. With life as a stake, they're on. In this post I will praise them most strongly for their contributions. I would also like to praise the activities of the Defence Agency at Rena for the efforts they are making there, in the form of training and testing of equipment. This is very good, and perhaps best when we compare ourselves to what other countries can do. I mean, we're the best! Something is pointing at, which is becoming more and more serious. It's the lack of people who are willing to go out as often as the Defense and Government want. Some special soldiers have only one period at home between each time. Most have only three periods, while it is desirable to have five. This tones on the soldiers, it toes on them at home, that is. family and friends, and the individual soldier shall not properly care for his/her interests and hobbies, for example. This is not good, and it's limited how long you can endure this. One day it says stop, and there may be fatal accidents because of this. Another thing is the equipment or, let's say, the lack of, among other things. properly motorised equipment. In my view, our forces in Afghanistan have a great need to replace part of the worn-out car park - many cars are also unexploded. You owe the difficulty of getting hold of armored cars. I believe this is wrong, as I after approx. One hour on the phone could write a contract - if I had the authority to do so - of 25 armored Toyota Hilux/Landcruiser at a very reasonable price. In addition, these could have been delivered to Kabul airport within seven days. These, moreover, appear to be quite similar to the unsubstantiated and are very safe to operate. That's more than what you could say about the new Ivecos that the defense bought. We probably remember, among other things: a Norwegian company with nine Ivecos, where only two were executable. This is not good enough if you send Norwegian boys and girls into war - because that's what it is in Afghanistan. As late as Tuesday this week, four English soldiers were killed, not in a normal car accident or anything like that, but in real combat. Fighters have just been fought in a war, and that means, among other things, the equipment is in order, at any cost. It's that simple. The Progress Party is willing to take this cost and this cost shall be excluded from the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1161	In this case, the Workers' Party had the chance to shake off the clumsy SV-hand that has been put above the defence budgets this period, and to prove that they have become a tailhang of the Swedish Defence Policy. Unfortunately, that's the opposite that happens. The working party shall certify its position as a tailhang to SV. The party of NATO opponents, with the Minister of Finance of the Government, has become the leader in terms of the level of funding of the Norwegian defence. It is not only alarming, but also alarming at a time when Norwegian defence faces its most demanding tasks in peacetime. Anyone who can calculate must see that ambitions and crowns do not at all harmonize with the new long-term plan. That must be the responsibility of the Workers' Party. The defence is used to give political concessions to a strongly weakened SV. It's like putting the pyromaniac to go on duty. It is not much to boast that the defense will come into balance once in the future when everyday life here and now is that it has to be cut on all bows and edges because the government has cut in the Defense both in 2007 and 2008. We're now helpless witnesses to a black player game where the different defenses and the FLO are played against each other. Recent newspapers can only be interpreted in one way: frustration has crossed the gap point. It is not useful to solve the long-term economic challenges of Defence, whether the organisation has no money to train soldiers, have the Marines at sea and the planes in the air in the short term. This recognition seems to be lacking in the proposals of the Government. On the right, it is alarming that the reality of the situation in the defence is so different from that of the organisation outside and the head of defence at the top. Who, then, will the Storting believe? Where will this end, when the obvious frustration of the elected officer of the order come to light, meet with the ease of the defence management? Even for an outsider, this is very provocative, and I fully understand that it boils among the command. The defense has had a reputation for being a very professional organization. This is what I hope to be the reputation of Defence in the future, too, because it will be absolutely vital for the Defence to continue to attract the best to carry out one of the most important tasks of society on behalf of the community - here at home and out. Defence policy must never be a symbol policy. Management is always important, but without quality and robustness in the operational joints, we do not have a well-functioning defence. The government has made it a major point that Norwegian defence needs to be adapted to the growing importance of the northern regions nationally and to the international interest that rich natural resources in the area are still attracting. That is why, fortunately, there is a cross-political agreement that defence should be set up to meet this challenge. In view of this, there is reason to put a big question mark in the decision to lay down the base of the Olav protection system. The base performs a very important function for both national and allied ships located in northern waters. The cost of the defense manager here has been based on, meets with disbelief. The computations are associated with gross errors, because important assumptions are proven to be incorrect. When the Government wants to transfer Olavsvermner's functions to Bergen, it means lost sailing days at the sea in the north, heavy bunkers' trip/return costs and an environmental account that does not tolerate today's light. In addition, Allierte ships lose an important anchorage in the north, where Norway should have every interest in facilitating the operation of allied ships and Norwegian ships in the north, from the north. Oil protection is fully operational, and can be operated for modest means, even according to those who know the base best, for about 15 million. kr per year. It is the opposite of good north-eastern policy to reduce Olavs protection when everyone now agrees that activity in the north should escalate, as underlined by large investments in new coastguard vessels, frigates and MTBs. To the right, the logic of the proposal for the closure of Olav protection is called for. The Harstad area has a tradition of attracting special forces from our allies to advanced winter training. Today, Åsegarden clay and Evenes airstation are used for this purpose, and almost 70 pst. of the allied training takes place in Nordre Nordland/Troms. Here it can be trained in all three elements: sea, air and land. The organisation of training in Norway is an important contribution to the alliance. Today the training from Harstad, where the Allies set up their management. Then it is very illogical that the government obliges the defense to place the Norwegian management in Porsanger. From the Right, we believe that it must be up to the Defense itself to organise itself so that the training can be carried out in an efficient and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1191	The security policy situation has changed fundamentally from what it was during the cold war. Then it was about having a defense that could last until we could get help from the Allies if there was an invasion. Of course, this is still fundamental, but we have to say that the danger of an invasion is very weakened or less, not to say has disappeared completely. On the other hand, it is at least as important as it was in the past to have a defence that asserts Norway’s sovereignty. I would like to say it in a different way since we are in this Chamber: we must have a defence that guarantees Norway political freedom of action. I also want to express that in his defence study, the head of defence explained to us in a way what we are facing, and what priorities we must take to enable us to have the instruments that enable us to have political freedom of action. So you might disagree with certain things about it, but we got the knife on the throat, and it's formed a lot of the basis for the big message that we're now dealing with. And what do we have to have? Well, first of all, an air force, which is going to be very expensive to acquire and operate. If we don't have planes, we don't have political freedom of action. We have to have a marine. Now we've got frigates, but we have to make sure to have room for them to sail. We decide to have the MTBs, which also have to be operational. Of course we have to have an army, and it has more perspectives. One is the traditional thing that we were used to, but it's just as important that we have an army that can participate in the foreign operations that Norway sees it necessary to be in for our allies. If we don't, we don't have the opportunity to get help from the allies when we needed it. So this is part of the totality that has been necessary for us, so that Norway will have political freedom of action. The task of the big business is to ensure that we have political freedom of action and get the instruments that make it possible. A lot of big words are used about disagreement here. But it has to be more important to bring forward what is actually agreed on, and which is the most important, namely the last point that I mentioned. And I want to quote from the committee's attitude, which says in the case of the Army: ‘The Committee is concerned about the situation and development of the Army and therefore supports the Government’s stated intention to strengthen the Army from today’s level.’ And so on: ‘The Committee acknowledges that the ambitions have been higher than the army’s personnel and strength well has been able to meet. It is therefore vital that the strengthening of the Army is given a force and a real content that can bring the Army up in strength as soon as possible in line with its ambitions.’ We agree on this, and it must be said that various governments have made sure that the Storting must now say what is in this setting. So I think we're going to focus on what we're actually doing here now, instead of reconstructing a disunity that's not as big as it was supposed to be. As regards what has been said about SV, it is of course remarkable what SV has actually been on in this setting. You have to be able to say that the father of SV is not very big anymore - if you can use such an expression - if there are any who have viewed it as a danger, when SV agrees to establish that: ‘Norway is totally dependent on our allies to meet our security policy interests and objectives. This is mainly done through transatlantic cooperation in NATO. Here the United States has been the most important of the countries that have contributed to our security since 1949. In the view of the Committee, the collective solidarity of NATO will continue to be crucial for Norway in the future’. It is also here that underlines the importance of our participation in EU security cooperation. There is no danger from anyone in this room. What is important for us is, of course, what we agree on, namely that we must ensure the instruments that are needed to ensure that we have political freedom in this country in the security policy situation we are in today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1222	The main argument for having a defence is obvious, these are the fundamental and timeless issues of creating security for the state, for the population and for society. As a nation, we have values and interests that need to be defended and protected. The best way to organise and design your defence is not as timeless. Changes in the threat picture, in the international and security policy situation, weapons technology and other conditions create the need to renew defence so that it can meet tomorrow’s challenges. For us in Norway, developments in the north and our neighbourhood will need to be given great importance in this context. In our defence and security policy, there are some carriers that there is reason to recall when we deal with a major security and defence policy issue like this one. Firstly, in the efforts to secure world peace, the UN has played a key role in the post-war period. As a small country, Norway has extra good reasons to stop strengthening the role of the United Nations. The UN is central to peace, security and development. Secondly, the Atlantic Treaty has been of fundamental importance to Norwegian security policy since 1949 and has had a major impact on defence policy. As a small nation, alliances can bring great benefits. NATO has served us well, and must continue to provide the concrete framework for the defence of Norway against a military attack. And NATO is also an important instrument for carrying out peace operations based on UN mandate. The government writes in the long-term proposition: ‘The realization of our sovereignty, territorial integrity and political freedom of action is a fundamental security interest expressed by the government’s Northern Territory effort.’ And then it says, ‘Norway also has a vital interest in maintaining and strengthening the transatlantic security community through NATO. The alliance constitutes a cornerstone of Norwegian security policy, through collective defence and cooperation with close allies.’ In the light of these overall perspectives, some questions arise when reviewing the Government’s long-term proposal for the defence in the structural field. Firstly, how does this relate to the proposal for the closure of Olavsværm, which is, after all, the northernmost base of the Alliance for the support of maritime operations? And secondly, how will the Government explain the relationship between the argumentation of close cooperation with NATO on the one hand and on the other hand changes that reverse this cooperation that works well on Yåttå? The new NATO Joint Warfare Centre, JWC, was strongly promoted in Norway in 2003 under the Bondevik II Government. The reason was then: ‘The absence of stationary NATO forces earmarked for Norway makes it necessary to facilitate the Allied presence of other instruments.’ In our view, this argument is valid today. Norway must act in a orderly manner to ensure the positive cooperation established. It is important to ensure allied assistance in the northern regions - if necessary. Ending the co-location with NATO on Jåttå is politically unwise, it is resourcefully doubtful, and it can put NATO’s presence in Norway at risk. That is why the Christian People's Party is going against these structural changes. The Christian People's Party called for early dialogue with the Government in advance of the presentation of the defence's long-term proposition. Unfortunately, it was not met. The Christian People's Party was also open to participate in negotiations in order to achieve a wide-ranging defence policy settlement, but we had to note that this did not result either. Today, government parties are running through the Government’s long-term plan proposal without a broad defence policy settlement. That's not a good solution. With greater cooperation from the Government, we could get a broader anchor for the development of Defence. I agree with the representative, Mr Jagland, that we should not exaggerate the distance between opposition and position in this matter. The more inexplicable it is to me, when the distance is not greater, that the Government has shown so little will and ability to meet the opposition. The advantage of the country, for the Government and for the Storting by getting a broad settlement is obvious to all. Then I find it strange that we have come into the situation we are, and in my view it is a result of a lack of will and poor political craftsmanship. There are obvious shortcomings in the structure and operational capabilities of the defence. It has, among other things, impact on participation in international operations, training and training activities and the level of operation in general. The defense is not able to deliver optimally per. today. The situation of many employees is uncertain and the wear and tear of personnel and materials is high. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the negative impact of today's operating situation on both recruitment and the ability to retain defence personnel. It surprises me -- when the opposition, in the light of this situation, is set to assume greater financial responsibility on the part of Stortinget for the Defense -- that the Council of State spends its time going back to what has happened in previous years, trying to weaken the credibility of the Opposition, instead of taking the golden opportunity it has to put together more effort into the Defense at a time when the Defense obviously needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1277	When Stortinget today determines the structure of the defence through the examination of the long-term plan, I assume that the decision will be sustainable for a long time to come. Rightly, we will always have to assess our defence in the light of the ongoing security policy situation, but it is demanding both for the Defence and for the many communities that depend on the presence of the Defence, to experience that there is uncertainty about the defence activities at four years' intervals - each time the long-term plan is to be revised. I immediately agree that the defence must be modernised and streamlined and monitored in technological development. At the same time, a balance must be struck between resource needs and resource supply. In other words, the tasks and arrangements of the defence must also be adapted to an economic reality. But when I so strongly emphasize that the structure that is now being laid down, and the victims that are now being made, must have sustainability over time, it is because civil society too is entitled to a certain long-termity in the activities of defence. I understand that for municipalities and areas in the country that are now losing important defence activities and jobs, it feels heavy - because I know the relief and joy in those places and in the municipalities that today experience that they have mountained exposed sites. To a large extent, this applies to Tjøme and Mågerø, who for a long time, and in several rounds, have fought for their control and warning station, and who have succeeded in convincing the Government and the Storting about their justification and future existence. I would like to believe that the tipping skills that are currently available in Finland and South Africa, a competence that cannot be easily relocated, have been decisive for the assessments that have been made. One thing is to move equipment and installations. Of course, it has its price, but it can be replaced. Moving people with high and attractive knowledge and skills, built over time, is far more difficult. Not least the employees’ organisations have been involved in this. They have rightly pointed out that the defense chief's proposal to shut down and move the stations in South Travel and at Tjøme would put on the defense a loss of competence that would immediately weaken our ability to control and monitor the Norwegian air territory, and that it would take a long time to rebuild - if possible. The operational control and warning system, with stations on Mågerø and in Sørreisa, contributes significantly to NATO’s strategic air surveillance. At the same time, these stations are an important part of our own surveillance of our air territory, which is important not only for defence but also to a large extent for civil society and for aviation safety in general. An effective control and warning system is therefore an essential part of our sovereignty and, as this system continues and evolves as part of NATO's modern and unified command and control system, I assume that the Tjeme community can plan and develop with certainty that defence workplaces will be there for a long time to come. Let me also express satisfaction with the fact that the Coast Guard is to continue with 15 vessels and that the level of exercise and activity is to be kept at least at the current level. This too is important, not least to defend our interests in the northern regions. The northern regions are, as you know, our main strategic focus. Of course, it also includes the Defence and Coast Guard. Continued fight against black fishing in the Barents Sea is entirely dependent on the constant presence and control activity of the Coast Guard. Together with enhanced port State control and better international regulation, this control activity has produced good results. The illegal, unregistered and unreported fisheries are now more than halved, which also benefits Norwegian fishermen in terms of higher quotas. From this point of view, the contribution of the Coast Guard to increased activity along the coast is invaluable. I note that it facilitates a qualitative upgrade of the vessel structure, combined with increased monitoring capacity and mobility with the new NH-90 helicopters to replace today's Lynx helicopters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1296	The defence has been changing since 1990 and until today from a mobilization defence to an effort-based defence. Much of this conversion work has been carried out, and on several occasions during this period, the Storting has given clear objectives for future defence. What is equally clear, however, is that the governments in office have been under-budgeting defence expenditure. Political objectives have not been followed up with enough budget heads. The situation of defence management has been largely unpredictable throughout the period. Increased operating and investment costs have resulted in the defence having to cut down on activities such as exercises, flight hours and sailing days. The same has been true of the acquisition of new equipment. Through the treatment of Innst. S. No 234 for 2003-2004 The Stortinget joined the following defence concept: ‘The defence shall be developed as a modern, flexible and ally-fitted security policy instrument, aiming at a balance between defence tasks, structure and resource availability. Activities shall be based on close cooperation with the relevant civil authorities and on a duty of protection exercised in line with the needs of the defence. The focus shall be on safeguarding and promoting Norwegian interests, by being able to address a wide range of challenges both nationally and internationally.’» The Government considers that the guiding principles of the defence concept remain valid and should be implemented for the further development of the defence. With regard to the future changes in the structure of the Government of Defence, the Advance Party goes against most of them. I will address the following changes in my article: moving the Joint Operational Headquarters, FOHK, from Jåttå to Reitan closure of the Madlaleir closure of HV-07 and HV-08 The FOHK was established on Jåttå after a decision was taken in 2003. Much of the premise for this location was the proximity of the NATO Joint Warfare Centre. At the same time, Madlaleiren personnel were to perform host country obligations in the form of watchkeeping, driver’s service, catering and overnight accommodation. The Madlaleiren can offer overnight stays for 1,000 soldiers. Although NATO has not formally protested at the Government's plans for the closure and relocation of FOHK, this is mentioned in a letter dated 29 January 2008. The JWC recommendation makes it clear that management will closely monitor the development of host country obligations now as FOHK is relocated and Madlaleir decommissioned. It is also noted that the synergy effect and interaction between JWC and FOHK has been a strength for both command centres. It is natural to assume that the JWC and NATO management will not have the same relationship with Norway as FOHK is closed and moved. JWC is the only permanent contact point between NATO and Norway geographically located in the country. Investments up to 350 million. kr on Yåttå will be lost when FOHK is moved. Worse than the loss of large investment sums, the staff shortage on Reitan is likely to be higher. A survey of staff with more than 10 years of unsolicited service shows that up to 75 pst. the officers do not wish to move to Retan. In view of the fact that the Stavanger region has a very varied job offer, I assume that the construction of the necessary personnel will be the main problem when moving FOHK to Retan. The progress party is moving towards the closure of the Madlaleir. Here is today the country's largest recruiting school for both the Marine and the Air Force. The Air Force Recruitment School was decided to move from Guards in 2002 and was fully operational in 2004. In view of the fact that the recruitment schools have common arrangements, except for a week's safety course for the mariners, it is completely incomprehensible that the Government is already moving the recruitment training to Bergen and Kjevik, respectively, after less than five years of continuous training. The economies of scale achieved at Madla are now abandoned. Investments in Madlaleiren since 2002 have been worth over 450 million. kr. According to the lease agreement of the 1860s this could mean that if you are going to return the tenant to the owners, the cost might be 100 million. kr. The progress point is towards shutting down HV-07 and HV-08. HV-07 is the only operational defence unit between Skien and Stavanger. Now that the Army is heavily reduced and is largely involved in international tasks, it is Home Security that takes care of both defence and social security tasks. The need for operational management was evident at the large forest fire in the municipality of Fromand last week. The HV management from Kjevik was in place very quickly in Fromand along with its staff. The closeness and awareness of their responsibilities are of utmost importance. Kristiansand is Norway’s fifth largest city, with a significant infrastructure of great national importance to protect. Several production holdings must be mentioned for the oil industry and daily calls for ferries from the continent. At Kjevik it is invested approx. 50 million. kr in the best HV command centre in the country. On questions from the Advance Party, the Ministry of Defence confirms that saving by merging HV-07 and HV-08 will result in an annual gain of 20 million. kr. This may not be true, as there is only a reduction of 13 jobs in Kjevik. The defence has suffered, and suffers, from a waste culture to which no other sector of society can point. The content of the Government's proposal for a future defence does not corroborate my impression that the waste culture continues. I now mention only large-scale projects that have become known during the last growing-up period: parking of the MLRS weapon system costing SEK 2,8 billion, but spent SEK 1,6 billion in parking phase-out of C-130H Hercules transport aircraft to be used for 2015, maintenance invested approx. 300 million. kr defense manager's proposal to scrape six MTBs under construction, costs excluding weapon systems and equipment DKK 5 billion would be the biggest example of waste in Defense until now This proposal was not followed up in St. Prp. No 48. It is very positive that the Government has followed up the Marine's needs for new MTBs. But unfortunately, the government has not provided a good enough crew for the continuous operation of the MTB weapon, rather for the frigates and coastguard ships. The closure of the Madlaleir is probably the largest total waste of the Community's funds in the Government's proposals. Investments carried out since 2002 totalled more than 450 million. kr is hardly realized. In the worst case, the phase-out may cost the defense up to 100 million. kr, as requested by private individuals. By maintaining the Madlaleir it would be unnecessary to invest in the Wolf, in the Water Camp or in Kjevik - overall estimated at 620 million. kr. In addition, the Water Camp could be sold for tens of millions of dollars. The numerical material presented by the Government in this proposition cannot be verified without the input figures being presented. It does not help to have an international audit firm check the calculations when the basis is unknown. Governments are surprised that the opposition does not accept the numerical basis in the long-term plan. The basic figures are right, says the Council of State, and here I'm adding-- this because they come from the head of defense. As a civil engineer, I'm used to numbers being documented and verified. Unfortunately, the figures in the material submitted are not verifiable. For the calculation of the present value, 20 years are used. Here should have been used for a maximum of ten years. Most realistic is five years that is a year more than the time frame in St.prp. No 48. It's hard at all to understand the numbers that appear in St.prp. No 48. The majority of the Committee is therefore very clear that the Government's draft budget lacks much to achieve the objective set out in the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1364	One might wonder if a military defence is necessary for a time without a clearly defined threat. Of course it is, to ensure our sovereignty, our rights, our interests and our freedom of action--just to be master of our own house. It was enough to be the «master of his own house» who was at the root when the red-green parties were sitting on Soria Moria and designated the northern regions as the main strategic area in the years to come, and determined that a strengthened military presence should be part of the normal state in the north. This is reflected in St. Prp. No 48 for 2007-2008. Norway manages 2.2 million square kilometres of sea areas. It is therefore important to ensure that maritime defence is well equipped for increased presence, not least in the north, where the environment and monitoring are absolutely necessary, while at the same time providing a safety policy tool for the performance of national and international maritime tasks. For me who comes from Northern Ireland, it is also important that the Marine Hunter Command at Ramsund War Station be continued with an adjusted and strengthened organisation. This means that department management related to education and training is continued in Ramsund. It's a victory for a small municipality like Tjeldsund, and it's a victory for the red-greens that the entire committee has joined that note. The other thing that's very important to me is to keep Bodø Main Aviation Station, which is the country's largest air station in the city of Bodø, with its 900 workplaces. I am sure that this presence in North Norway has contributed to the positive development we have had in the area of detachment in the north since 1991. If the Naval Defense is important, the Air Force is just as important to maintain the sovereignty of the North. Without them, Northern Region policy would not have the basic foundation. That is why I believe that Bodø is the most suitable location as the main terminal of the future. In order to make this foundation completely bottom-solid, it is necessary to bring together the operational management of the defence at Retan at Bodø. Already in 2001, I thought that we saw the contours of a larger development in the northern regions, and that Russia was on the rise again, but during the big debate on the conversion of the Defence, St. pp. No 45 for 2000-2001, relations with NATO were more important than developments in the north, and I lost. The NATO argument is not as relevant today, but someone is holding spasmodic on to it anyway. Unfortunately, there have been some mistruths about Reitan in the process, among others. that the Ritan plant is in poor condition with investment needs in the billions class - which, of course, is not correct. Fortunately, the municipality of Reitan and Bodø has not placed itself in the swedish range, but has marketed the airport, as it is, with facilities for the whole family. I am proud of this and can say on behalf of the whole Nordic country today. Of course, the location of the Defence Command on Reitan is a signal to the outside world of Norway's commitment and commitment in the north. This will prevent what Johan Jørgen Holst used to call exciting misunderstandings on Norway's political priorities. A merged command unit provides increased competence, efficiency and operational capability. This will pay off economically and not least socio-economically. The future will show that the red-green made the right decisions in good time. We are well pleased in Northland with the results that are being adopted today, also with the Home Guard and Orion flights on Andeya. This is a north-eastern bet at its best. I expect that there will now be a continuation of the relocation of the main command to Reitan, and that the Council of State will take the best possible initiative to put in place an interim solution that only works for the new organisation. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] Kontreadmiral Grytting at Retan believes that you can be fully operational as early as next year. Take that challenge!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1390	The President will recall that this is a long debate and ask the representatives to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1393	The task of defence is to discharge the timeless and fundamental responsibility for creating security for the population, society and the nation-state. Defence and security policies should therefore be broadly anchored politically and predictable, not least since Norway’s defence and security policies depend on international alliances. The price we pay for the defense is like the insurance premium we pay for our house. It is not a balancing item, even if the family wants a expensive vacation. In Norway, we have long traditions for the broad lines of defence policy to be broadly anchored in the Stortinget. This year the Labour Party has chosen to break this tradition. The long-term plan of defence is drawn up by a narrow majority, with the Socialist Left making up the second largest partner - the party that has always faced a hostile line of defence, and which was formed on the basis of resistance to Norwegian membership in NATO. This shows that the Right was right when, in the election campaign in 2005, we warned against the Workers' Party going to the elections to let the Socialist Left Party into the government offices. The answer from Stoltenberg was the time that SV had accepted Norwegian NATO membership. Our point is that Norwegian NATO policy is not about membership or ownership. The role of Norway in NATO is at stake, and not least how Norway is perceived by our allies in NATO. It is a policy that is conducted every day. Already in the first six months, we had literally demonstrated this point when several representatives of the Socialist Left Party chose to stand outside the Storting to demonstrate against their own government's decision on Norwegian participation in Afghanistan. Since then, Norway has systematically reduced its importance in NATO. In the rocket shield case, the Workers' Party accepted that Norway was becoming a footnote country in NATO. The defence has today major problems that need to be solved immediately before central capacity is further weakened. The right considers the issue of a long-term balance between ambition, structure and economy as central, but demanded in the negotiations with the government parties that the short-term operational problems in the defence were also addressed immediately. The Labour Party accepted that the Socialist Left Party put its foot down for this rather than taking the opportunity to obtain broad support from the Storting for a necessary and required increase in the budget for the Defence already next year. This point was reinforced when the representative Jagland claimed that the differences are small in this room. If the differences are so small, the price should be very small for the Workers' Party to ensure a broad consensus on creating predictable and viable framework conditions for defence and defence policy in Norway. That price was obviously not the Labour Party willing to pay. The working party chose to break the negotiations on the grounds that they demanded that the Joint Operational Headquarters be closed on Jåttå. It's a total opposition. We believe that today's organisation ensures co-location with NATO in Norway. It is quite obvious that in a situation where Norway’s attention is weakened in NATO, it is beneficial for Norwegian officers to work daily with their colleagues from all countries in NATO in Norway. We are also afraid that this change will weaken Norway's position in the next round when NATO is discussing its structure in Europe. The Socialist Left does not succeed in getting Norway out of NATO, but with the help of the Labour Party, they can succeed in getting NATO out of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1406	In the Defence Study, it was proposed to lay down Base Jørstadmoen and move the business there to the Oslo region, i.e. Kjeller, Sessvoll and Kolsås. The government has made a right and good decision for the defense when she chose to keep the base, and for the region around Jørstadmoen and the whole interior, it was a very important decision. In this matter and in a number of other defence cases, I am impressed by the defence minister's will, ability and courage to take the necessary political decisions in a very demanding area. I am pleased that the Council of State has listened and shown the willingness to also enter this part of a large matter area. I am overconfident that with a bet on Jørstadmoen, one can achieve precisely the goal that was also the basis of the Defence Study, on professional synergies, robust environment, long-term construction and work opportunities for them to add and not least financial effects, access to recruitment and a number of other elements. Here's the area, the facilities and the possibilities for development. The region has the country’s leading environment of competence in information security. Jørstadmoen cooperates with the Höjskular and the Environment for Competence. The Gjøvik University has 10 positions, i.e. five years' work that is used in engineering training at Jørstadmoen. This is an attractive arc area. Jørstadmoen is the total supplier of skills, systems and materials of modern ICT within the country and for operations abroad. This is an area for which a modern defense obviously needs to be strengthened. The use of ICT is central to all military operations, and the importance of exploiting the potential of modern technologies is increasing. It is imperative to build a resilient ICT environment, especially in the Defence, where, at times, entirely own technological solutions are required. An increasing number of defenses will not be able to build such an environment in more than one place. I then also read in the setting that the defence committee of a co-consultant recommends that one as much as possible gather ICT resources in the Defence. At the same time, one shows that the Storting i Innst. S. No For 2003–04, 234 attended a joint centre of expertise for command, control and information systems at Jørstadmoen. Citation from setting: ‘The Committee is concerned that this will maximise the pooling of ICT resources in defence, and expects the Government to return to the Storing on this matter in the context of the review of the FLO.’ The Committee supports closer cooperation with the relevant research environment and industry. The Committee has also stressed the need for defence to contribute to finding common solutions in areas such as the construction of costly infrastructure, the development of a viable professional environment, education and technology development. The Lillehammer Regional Council has created Lillehammer Campus, a joint area for interaction between education, research, defence, innovation and business development. At Jørstadmoen, therefore, an ICT Centre for Defence can be established on the same campus as the Højskule and the Food Park, and realize precisely this vision of Defence as a fully integrated part of a civil-military environment of competence. This provides both professional synergies and economic savings potential, and the Centre can become an exhibition window for a new and forward-looking military organisation. The military engineering high school at Jørstadmoen is now fully integrated with the Højskulen at Gjøvik on the teacher's side, and is about to be integrated accordingly with the Højskulen at Lillehammer with regard to the provision of studies. The aim must be that the education sector in the defence sector is seen as an integral part of the higher education and university sector in society otherwise, and the defence engineering college in Jørstadmoen is the military school that has come most in this area. The deficit in domestic technology workplaces is a strategic possibility for defence, but at the same time has been one of the main challenges in the further development of the Inland. The interior is currently lacking a technology locomotive that is strong enough to pull the rest of the region with it and make the area a natural place for start-ups before technology. Such a locomotive can be a collective defence ICT centre that interacts with existing environments at Gjøvik, Raufoss and Hamar. So this approach alone will be able to solve the domestic technology challenge. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we promised to invest in the districts, and this action will be the most important thing we can do for the Inland during this majority period. The news on Wednesday that Stortinget wants to bring together the ICT business in the defence of Jørstadmoen already led the same day to requests from companies that want to establish themselves and become part of a common civil-military professional environment. This illustrates the need for such an environment in the interior, but also the potential for defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1437	The government's proposal to close Joint Operational Headquarters on Jåttå is not in any way properly justified by the Government. The government's procedure before and during the treatment in Stortinget also testifies that you have not been fully aware of what you are doing. I'll do a local example. In Stavanger Aftenblad on 31 August last year, i.e. in the middle of the local election campaign, one could read the title ‘Kleppa promises battle for Yåttå’, further that the parliamentary leader of the Centerpartiet, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, as the first central representative of the government parties now goes ‘with a clear no to Yåtttå closure’. On 31 January of this year it was possible to read in the same newspaper the title ‘The Center Party is burying Yåttå’. [[...]] At that time, the local election campaign was too far ahead, and the same law firm Kleppa had become the municipal minister. The paper further wrote that the same Meltveit Kleppa who promised to fight for Jåttå in August was completely unaware that the central party’s big group had decided to lay down the joint operating headquarters on Jåttå. She had not even been present during treatment, according to the newspaper. And what was the reason why the Center Party had taken such a decision? Jo, «Rogaland has enough jobs», said the parliamentary leader of the Centre Party, Lars Peder Breck. Here, the Center Party again reveals its true face. The party doesn't care at all about military advice, cooperation in NATO, or the waste of hundreds of millions of dollars. The most important thing for the party is again their failed district policy and the consideration of the jobs in the districts. If you just take such considerations, Rogaland will probably get bad out there. Lars Peder Breck is quite right that there is a tight labour market in Rogaland. This can, however, create even greater problems if the Storing decides to close today. I have spoken to a number of employees and I have chosen to trust Jåttå who have not intended to move northwards. Many are established with family in the region, and most are well qualified to get a job in the tight labour market we have in Rogaland. This has the consequence of breaking up and pulverising the environments of competence that have been built up for many years, as well as of losing highly qualified defence personnel. Obviously, this has not been thought of either in the Centre Party or in the other government parties. One of the decisive premises for the location of the Joint Warfare Center in Norway and Jåttå was the co-location with the Joint Operational Headquarters. Therefore, the signal power at the closure of Yåttå will be very unfortunate. This will eliminate the synergies currently existing between the military operational management and the Joint Warfare Center and change the assumptions for NATO’s continued presence on Yåttå and perhaps also in Norway. This is very serious. The Socialist Left Party, as you know, has a programme party that they want Norway out of NATO, and now they may at least be able to collect a delise by being able to get NATO out of Norway, which the representative Höie was in. The economic consequences of closure and relocation have also not been adequately elucidated in the case. The amount of money we see here with hundreds of millions of taxpayers' money is incredible in a defense that every day lacks money. I do not think madness is a parliamentary correct expression, but I have not been able to find a more comprehensive expression of what is about to happen here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1452	The issue we are debating today is important for the renewal and structure of the defence and tasks that the Norwegian defence is going to do both at home and outside. The issue has been and is challenging, as it will ensure a defence adapted to tomorrow's challenges and a rational and strategic organisation. In addition, these changes involve both the base structure and the relationship with local communities over many years, changes that are challenging both for the military and for the civilian population. I want to use this post to focus on defence and the North. Defence in the north is important in relation to the Northern Region perspective. We have gone from being a safety-policy marshalling area to becoming a power centre for energy and petroleum production. This creates new challenges, not least in relation to co-existence of fish oil and new environmental challenges. I myself come from Finnmark, a country with a large geographical extent, bordering our neighbour in the east, Russia. There are large sea areas where there is no longer only the primary industry of shallow fish, which can create conflicts of interest both nationally and between our two countries, with increasing petroleum activity on both sides of the border. The first land fall through the Snow White plant is already in production. There are also concrete plans for the development of the Goliath field, where the Italian company Eni is an operator, and the exploration activity in the north is high. HV has important tasks in the county, related to both installations around the Snow White plant and other important objects around the county. Petroleum activity in the coming years will gradually move east in the Barents Sea. Installations that represent large values can constitute a potential target of terror in the future, without me drawing it too far. I just want to show that the head of defense in the media has stated that the Snow White installations are target of terrorism. One in this country. I am pleased that, later today, we will decide that the main seat of the Alliert training centre is to be added to Porsangmoen, that the commanding training in the Home Security at Porsangmoen is maintained, and that a common HV district for Finnmark is added to the same location. Together with the maintenance of the best and most widely used shooting and bombing areas in Norway, and perhaps in Europe, Halkavarre, this provides a good starting point for future activity. There are no unresolved conflicts of interest in the shooting and bombing field, which may be used 365 days a year. I want to say, even if it's not going to be crucial, that Porsanger is a municipality there over 70 pst. of the areas are connected to shooting grounds, national parks, wetlands, etc., and thus have very limited possibilities for other economic activities requiring areas. It is understandable in South Varanger that the new overall HV district is not being laid there, and that HV-18 is being laid down. There is never a pleasant situation for a community when activities are moved or laid down. However, they have the garrison in South Varanger, which is both the Garrison Company and the Grensek Company. The latter has important tasks at the Norwegian-Russian border. I would like to add, although there are professional assessments to be taken into account, that the South Varanger community has an exciting development ahead of itself with the reopening of mining and the ring-fence of future petroleum activities both on the Norwegian and on the Russian side. Looking at the situation as a whole, we now have two viable military units in Finnmark: the army activity at the garrison of South Varanger and the Home Guard activity and the Alliert training centre at Porsangmoen. Then what is left of the Army Department, or the Hunter Company, is moved from the Porsangmo to the Inner Troms. This has a professional and rational anchoring. Subjectively judged by a Finnmark representative -- and I repeat that it's subjective -- that's not, of course, what I want most. But at the same time, I must be allowed to say that what we are adopting today is a good whole and very good for North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1482	The following speakers have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1485	Today, when it is decided to bring operational management together into one headquarters, it is natural to bring it together in the northern regions. Furthermore, it is natural to pool it with the facility that has the capacity to receive the Defence Operational Headquarters as a whole and at the same time space for any extended functions in the future - i.e. Retan. It is also of great importance that the competences of today’s 270 staff among Reitan are maintained in order to address the important tasks of the northern regions in the future. Today and in the future, the size of the defence is limited to no more than one headquarters. The opposition's proposal to keep Yåtta raises questions about the overall structure: Do the opposition want to continue to maintain both headquarters, or do they want to keep Yåttå and put Retan down? I think there's something behind it. If they want to keep both, that means saying no to the rationalisation and adjustment of the management structure and the associated financial savings - a saving that is intended to be used for the operational operation of the departments. If they want to put Reitan down, they should say so in plain language. This will lead to the reduction of the long-term environment that has developed a special competence to monitor, assess and address the problems associated with the north. Military professional arguments should weigh heavily when selecting location. The Government’s proposal is also in line with the Defence Manager’s proposal regarding the location of the Joint Operational Headquarters of Retan. The importance of the north-eastern focus should subsequently be well documented. We are talking about marine resources, petroleum resources, geopolitical interests in a water that is becoming increasingly ice-free, the environmental perspective, unexplained boundaries both above and below water and on the base, high strength concentrations, increasingly important transport corridors, etc. Nine tenths of Norway's sea area is north of Brønnøysund. Here it's important values to protect. After the Cold War, NATO has concentrated less on the North and Norway has also developed its role in international operations. Now you can see that the needs for focus in the north have changed, and change, and NATO has focus elsewhere. Norway thus has an increased need and responsibility for ensuring safety, monitoring and sovereignty in the north. Competitive synergies exist by bringing together the activities of Bodø. So to the setting point 2.6.5., attached to the Maritime Defense. The presence of the Marine Hunter Command in Ramsund War Station must be maintained at a minimum at the level of the day. I hope that the wording that stands will not weaken Ramsund War Station. Teldsund Municipality, with its 1,330 inhabitants, is probably one of the most defence-dependent municipalities in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1506	Can I get the word to clarify a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1512	The President believes that the representative can clarify that misunderstanding in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1515	For the past six months, I have been involved in the link between defence and health. That is why I am taking the floor in this debate. I have noticed with pleasure that a joint committee asks the Government to promote a separate case on the needs, consequences and solutions associated with personnel involved in foreign operations. There are policy decisions that are behind Norwegian men and women going into international operations and having to take part in sharp operations, with life and health as a response. It may be that both politicians and some among the Norwegian people are not sufficiently serious about themselves, because it is talking about Norway as a nation of peace - that we send our soldiers into peace operations of a slightly different kind. But had it been peace, there would have been no need for the sharpest weapon we politicians have, namely our military defense. We have to relieve the burdens on them of our veterans who are already struggling. We need to be able to see both those who are now in international operations, those who are going to serve as soldiers abroad, and those who have been out there, in their eyes and say, when you do such an important and risky job for us, as a society, we're going to arrest you if you're going to have trouble afterwards. I expect the Government to give XIII in its decision the necessary resolution and thoroughness that the matter of veto demands. It is a complex area to be surveyed. Important elements will be the extent of damage and the type, forms of treatment and follow-up. A real follow-up of all veterans is important, so that problems can be identified and addressed at the earliest opportunity. Then it does not keep a questionnaire in the post of the individual veteran. The relatives, through their double role, are important to have contact with, both to reveal who is struggling, and because through their relationship they can often have problems themselves. A treatment offer with capacity and competence needs to be put in place. In order for treatment to be effective, there must be a basic competence also regarding the nature and nature of the war at the hands of the practitioners. Without such competence, a good client-manager relationship is made difficult. I hope that if not for too long we can get a case from the Government where one through the veterans' input and the departments involved has helped to give the case the quality the veterans deserve. The Christian People's Party expects it to include concrete escalation plans in those areas of society where, unfortunately, we are not able to handle the veterans well enough today. I have read a notice today and yesterday in Bergen's Official Journal, where the Minister for Health and Defence put forward plans for a new law to ensure veterans. I think it's very positive signals, and looks forward to that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1538	Defense study 07, which suggests a structure on the Heimevertet with 30,000 soldiers and ten HV districts, is clearly at the root of some of the setting regarding the Home Security. The proposal now presented to the Stortinget by the Government proposes a crew structure of 45,000 soldiers and the closure of two HV districts and crew training at the Værnes. Within this framework of 45000 men, HV-07 and HV-08 seem to have only a marginal reduction in their war structure. The rationale, and therefore the gain, of merging the districts will therefore be very difficult to discover. They're presented crystal-clear calculations that show that it doesn't respond to adding HV-07. In addition, decommissioning Home Security District 07 will mean that the whole of the South will be without operational military management. A new joint management of HV-07 and HV-08 added to the Water Camp in Sandnes will also impose a significant burden on the travel activities of the staff of the department. The consequence is that one of the most effective and best HV districts in the country is closed down, and that training and follow-up of local HV departments in Agder is becoming more difficult and expensive to operate. Contact with the community on which HV is fully dependent will also largely disappear. The events of the last weeks in Fromand especially and the fire there clearly showed the importance of a locally related home protection. The support of the district staff in HV-07 was essential for the HV team to do the great job they actually were in. Local knowledge was essential that the fire did not reach an even greater extent than it did. In other words, local management is crucial to the quality of the effort. I cannot say anything but that I am incredibly disappointed in the Workers' Party. The Right Party and the Labour Party have come together for reasonable compromises on defence largely throughout the post-war period. This time there was also an attempt, but the Workers' Party showed little or no will. When it comes to the question of HV-07 and the three government parties' representatives, all three have been strongly involved in the rhetorical game that has been going on in South Africa to maintain the district. When it comes to today's vote, there are all the possibilities to actually vote for what you mean, and let the HV-07 pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1553	Today is a serious marking day for civil-military cooperation in the South. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have decided to drop Home Protection's own basic training on the Guards, lay down HV-07 and HV-08 in the Agder counties, merge three counties and add district staff to the Water Camp in Sandnes. It will be a major district and a huge challenge in terms of distances and the ability to maintain sound and good dialogue with all municipalities. I have received many enquiries, letters, e-mails, telephones, and I have had meetings with the KS and all the rapporteurs - over 20 pieces! As the leader of the Agder bench, I can assure the Storting that there is a cross-political consensus that this merger of the HV districts is neither desirable nor felt to be safe. People are upset, and I know that both the Minister of Defense and the Defence Committee have received more letters on the matter. It is claimed that the savings expected have been made on a very poor basis. In reality, there's nothing to spare. A whole part of the country is now afraid that this is the beginning of the end of having home protection in our part of the country. Then there is little defense left. Crisiss can occur at any time and anywhere. We have received a strong reminder of that in connection with the fire in Fromand. The fire that lasted for days gave clear signals of the importance of having sufficient reserve personnel when the crisis is a fact and difficult to deal with. The Fire in Fromand has again put social security and civil-military cooperation on the agenda and demonstrated the need for vulnerability analysis, national plans and national preparedness when forest fires are out of control. It also demonstrated the need for cooperation between municipalities and regions, and not least against the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and the Ministry of Justice as the Ministry of Coordination and responsible for social security and preparedness. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the big news came so late that the long-term plans for defence and social security could not be treated in parallel, as the Stortinget has adopted and clarified several times. The Christian People's Party has noticed that 'Large forest fires' have a separate section in St.meld. No 22 - Social security - so that debate can be reopened for the autumn. But the Battle of Homeland is today. For us in the South, this is about the clear presence and security of the defence for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1572	A modern defense must open up to the society it's part of. A more open defence will strengthen its legitimacy, the population's integration will become stronger, and the overall mobilization capacity of society will be strengthened. Civil environments of competence in industry, technology and education are important sources of competence and development, where defence can gain knowledge and expand its professional platform. In particular, this is important in the field of ICT where development is fast and where it is difficult to rely on both financial resources and not least in terms of maintaining competence. In a common information infrastructure, a collection of the ICT services of the Defence Agency will provide a reinforced starting point for solving the major challenges facing the defence in the context of future technological developments. This is to build a sustainable environment with the ability to recruit, hold skilled personnel, conduct relevant own research, lie ahead technologically and be an attractive partner for international military actors and not least relevant actors in civil life. In this context, the ICT environment of defence at Jørstadmoen has shown its way. Today, the military engineering college is fully integrated with the Gjøvik High School on the teacher’s side, and together with, among others. Norsk Tipping, DnB NOR and the Gjøvik High School are the Defenders a very important contributor to the development of the Gjøvik Data Security Centre, which today constitutes the foremost competence in our country in its field. These are just examples. There are many possibilities, and of course the defence's ambition must be to approach the leading technological environments not only in Norway but also internationally. With a combined grip, the defense will turn itself into a major player and be a very attractive partner. Jørstadmoen has good assumptions for making room for a comprehensive solution. Central location, good location and an economically sound starting point for possible deployments provide a good basis for hosting the future collection of ICT services by the Defence Force, thus constituting the focus of the future information infrastructure of the Defence Force. The right is therefore pleased that a joint committee has agreed to this request.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1583	It has been mentioned earlier in the debate that SV poses a threat to security policy and defence policy. I feel quite safe in this room -- with all that is of military personnel in the diplomatic lodge, I would say that there is no immediate danger here in the hall. The defence we are investing in today is the defence we get in 25-30 years. In that structure, we have the Home Protection, and Home Protection is the defence of politicians, because it belongs in our neighbourhoods and is scattered throughout the country to ensure the security of our citizens. Home security shall have the capacity to provide rapid and persistent protection of key infrastructure, support national crisis management, enhance military presence in the country as necessary and support civil society based on the modernised overall defence concept. This involves cooperation with local authorities such as police, state officials, municipalities and agencies in the framework of the overall defence. A home protection that knows the neighbourhoods and local hedged items will play an important role in crisis management and social security. Home protection started their own basic training on Guards to specialise in the tasks they are going to do. The closure of this today will help to weaken the Homeland Protection system. The fire in Fromand has shown the need and importance of being able to summon reinforcements in an excellent way, and it needs to be added to robustness over time. It has also shown that a serious crisis can occur anywhere and at any time. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not agree with the government's aggregation of HV-07 and HV-08. In the rationale for the changes with a regional loss in the Vatneleieren in Sandnes, it is said that Stavanger is the centre of a strategically important area of vital petroleum activity and NATO activity. Localisation to Kjevik would increase travel distances according to operational needs. It may seem that the Government believes that future HV soldiers should be assigned to the Stavanger area. This is not district policy in the sense that Sørland is dependent on the management element in terms of jobs. We have big, successful businesses. We all know that Hennig-Olsen Ice is now going to contribute throughout the country with summery goods. We don't need the jobs. But in local crisis and war management, it is important that the management element that we in South Africa should deal with, know who our rapporteur is, know who our state is, and know how Agder works in crisis and war management. That's why it's important for Southland to be heard. It took a long time before the rapporteur, Sigurd Pedersen, in Fromand, asked for help. Now, the Agder bench is asking for the help of Stortingen not to be taken from the last operational management element in the South.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1602	It is noticed that SV is in government. In no other budget area, this is more marked than in the Defence and Defence branches, with the under-financing of the Defence. Any budget line has the real growth through which the gigantic, increased revenues until the nation comes, with the exception of the Defence. That means a coastguard partly at the dock, that means less exercise, fewer exercise days. We see that the aircraft has to reduce its training activity. In short, it's a waste of money. The long-term effects of a relationship on the level of equipment of our foreign operations will result in recruitment being the main challenge. The bad examples affect the defence in total, and I think that SV can take on income to a significant extent. The paradox in this regard is that the trade movement of the defence, i.e. those who screamed in the previous period in the one and the other area, is, today, relatively, very, very tame. My second point is: Under the vignette ‘Teaching in the North, Treasures in the South’, the Defence Committee describes the situation of our Marines in Tjeldsund, at Ramsund War Station. I should have liked to have received a comment from the Minister of Defence - how the Minister of Defence considers the statement that the Committee assumes that 'the departmental management of education and training will be continued at Ramsund Warlogssstation'. Is the permanent management of marine hunter training located in Ramsund, or is it to be remotely controlled from the south? So to the third point. I support the proposal to move the Joint Operational Headquarters of the Defence Agency from Jåttå to Reitan. The main argument used to have NATO in Norway is that, for NATO's sub-regional command on Jåttå, the same location should remain today. This was an argument until 2003. Today, it's proven to be no longer an argument at all. Bodø has 50 years of experience in hosting the defense. While there is evidence of an economic gain in co-location, it is the main reason why the defence with the increased attention, the increased importance of our northern regions in this area, should also have a situational understanding that is in line with the position that is now being put on the table and that the defence manager has also presented through his recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1613	For Eastfold, it's Homeland Protection and Rygge Air Station, which shows the defence's presence. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the Rygge Air Station is continuing with some minor adjustments to the operation. The rescue helicopter service – which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, but which is operated by the 330 squadron of Defence – is located on Rygge. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the Government will consider the future location of fighter aircraft, air protection and basesets in the light of the process related to the generation of new fighter aircraft. Until further notice, the operations concerned are continued at Bodø and Ørland Main Aviation Stations as well as at Rygge Aviation Station. Due to operational needs to support, inter alia: the activities in the Østerdalen garrison and in the Central East in a rational manner, the Christian People's Party considers it important that the helicopter environment of the Rygge air station be further developed and adapted to the operational activities. Rygge Air Station is important to the East. Therefore, it is positive that the 720 Quadron will be reinforced by a required number of Bell 412 helicopters for special operations and support of planned operational operations in future tactical transport helicopters in this part of the country. The Christian People's Party has noticed that Storting's decision that the operations of the 335 Quadron at the Gardermoen would not be carried out to the Rygge Air Station. Home protection has a central role to play in social security and crisis assistance. HV has territorial responsibility and shall be able to reinforce other military presence in vulnerable areas. It's an important problem. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that both recruitment from the region, own tailor-made education and a sufficient HV strength of at least 45000 to cover the whole country's geography are required. The Home Office is about to complete a very good conversion. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it provides a good basis for further development of Homeland Protection. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party has noticed that the plans for the Sjöheimeverterung relate to equipment including: vessels for command and control, logistics and power production.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1634	For my part, there have been three bars in this. It is NATO, the duty of protection and the anchoring of the defence capability. I don't think there's been any greater need for NATO connectivity than now. It is important that we do not engage in new restructurings just for the specific nature of the structure. The duty of protection is what creates the legitimacy of Norwegian society, and is an important pillar in my view. The role of home security has been to operate watchkeeping and securing. In addition, many have gained experience in operating abroad. The organisation has trained locally, has good local knowledge and has therefore been able to quickly protect people and important social values where required. In cooperation, HV has a mission from society's management or in support of the police, protecting people and important social functions where the soldiers live. The specificity of the HV is more relevant than ever. Therefore, I believe that HV exploits the teams in a cost-effective way for the benefit of society. This also helps to legitimize the defence and keep the defence will alive in a society. That's why it's going to be a big paradox for me when a man chooses to put down a camp as well-functioning in Norway as the Guards. In recent years, one has spent a lot of money on the training facility in Lexdalen. The plant will be completed in 2009, more or less at the same time as the Government will bring down HV Guards. At that time, the plant has cost 130 million. kr. Trøndelag is the district that has recruited most officers over time. With the decision today, there will be a new time in many ways. I have to say it's a ghastly and sad day, after spending some years in this system. I think it's quite special that one of the last facilities disappears from the North-Trunde Team. The danger is that the country's defence capabilities are in the process of rotting. That General Armfeldt couldn't do, it seems today's government is doing well. But I see some hope further. After all, the implementation of today's decision on the Guards is only 1 August next year. And with the will shown by the opposition, it must be possible to reverse it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1647	Today, the size has an important debate on how our defence should best focus on the tasks it will have in the future, where it is important to strike the right balance between resources, structure and operational activities. I'm glad that the government is taking both structural and organisational steps to get it done, while at the same time strengthening the defence financially and professionally. I am pleased that the presence of the Defence in the northern regions is taken care of by this government. We have important tasks for both the presence and monitoring of the northern waters, airspace and land. The presence of defence in the north is also important because it shows the outside world that these areas are of great importance to us, for both resource and strategic reasons. We need the presence of the Defence in the waters where fishing and petroleum activities are going on, and we need its presence if a tense situation should arise in the north. I support the Government's recommendation that the Joint Operational Headquarters of the Defence Agency and the Landsdelskommando Nord-Norway be assembled in one of the Operational headquarters of the Defence Agency, added to Retan at Bodø. It is a completely natural and necessary operation when the northern regions are defined as our defence policy's most important area. I'm also glad that Inner Troms has become a center of gravity for the Defense. The General Inspector General of the Army, with its staff functions at Bardufoss, the development of Bardufoss airstation as the main base for the future helicopter structure of the Defence, continued to bet on the Air Force Air Force Aerodrome at Bardufoss Air Station and the establishment of the Hunter Company at Setermoen are important investments in the Troms Defence Company. The continuation of the Air Force Station in South Reisa is also of great importance for the oversight of airspace in the north. At one point I am disappointed with the proposed plan: I would like to see the marine base Olavsvern in Tromsø not closed. I see this base as an important strategic and marine military structure for operations in the north. Unfortunately, the defence-policy disciplines have not recommended this, and so it is not taken into account to continue to have Olavsvermn as a marine base. Here the proposed plan provides for Ramsund and other sites to serve the functions of Olavsverm so far. I hope, however, that the basics will continue to be used as a precaution, and that together with the University Hospital in North Norway, we will find the opportunity to take care of the pressure tank that is currently at the base, which is important in the treatment of damage and in order to provide life-saving help. I want to support the Government's ambition to have a clear operational maritime military operation in the waters of the north, among others. with a strengthening of the Coast Guard. It provides for the upgrading of ship structure, a significant increase in monitoring capacity and the prioritisation of external coastguards. It will, along with Orion maritime coastal patrol aircraft, the coastal radar chain and satellite surveillance, provide us with the information we need to have control, monitoring and presence in the north -- this region that is defined as our most important -- strategic, resource and political.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1660	This landfill proposal has been given the vehement title ‘Protection of Norway’s security, interests and values’. Those are nice words, but they must be followed up by content, and they must be followed up by appropriations. In the field of defence more than in any other area, one cannot talk out of the challenges we face if we want a robust, modern and effective defence that will take care of both part of the very central tasks of defending our own territory and our ability and willingness to participate in international operations. On the part of the Progress Party, we have warned against this for a long time. It's been a wild policy of several governments, over several major periods, cutting down the defense at a speed and in such a way that you now face a very serious situation. It also characterizes this debate, because many of the speeches from this pulpit are marked by the fact that you have to choose within far too narrow a frame, rather than based on what we actually need. The autumn of 2009 will be a big shot. The party of progress has seen itself so tired of this deceptive downturn, almost the winding-up, of absolutely essential elements that I can at least, on behalf of the Progress Party, state that a number of the decisions taken by the majority in this Chamber today will not stand if it is up to the Progress Party to do anything about it during the next big period. We cannot accept the movement of the Defence Joint Operational Headquarters, FOHK. We think it's a wrong strategic choice. We believe that this affects Norway's relationship with NATO. We cannot accept the closure of Olavsvermn, because we believe that it is over time a managed liquidation of the Norwegian submarine weapon. That's how you first have to be clear on what kind of defense you want. Then you have to be willing to pay for it. These things are related, and there is no reason in the world that Norway should not afford to pay for the defence they see served. The time to count on allied support for many of the challenges we face in our own country is over. Many of those problems we have to be able to shoot ourselves. We're not today. This room must take it seriously. This means that we must get up the appropriations at a very rapid pace if we want a defence for the future as well. Defence policy is not, should not and should not be a district policy, although many of the speeches in this debate have a bearing on it. Defence policy must be a comprehensive assessment of what the Kingdom of Norway needs for operational defence and which parts of the country need to be strengthened. That is what the debate must be about in the future, not how we should cut down further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1674	I would like to begin by referring to the contributions of the representative Odd Einar Dørum on the overall national defence objectives of the Left. I want to bring up a local theme. The government's reason for shutting down HV-07 on Kjevik was in its time a proposal to reduce Home Security to 30,000 people on a national basis. Since then, it has been shown that the majority of the Stortinget will maintain a decentralised home guard of 45,000 soldiers. With such a structure, I think it is completely incomprehensible that the government will remove the HV management at Kjevik, and thus initiate a directed liquidation of the defense for a whole part of the country. The government appears to be based on a savings potential from the original setting, but this has since been significantly revised. Thus, the assumptions for exploiting such a saving potential no longer appear to be present. In order to ensure that the Stortinget takes a decision on the right basis, the Government should provide transparency on the numerical basis to support degradation and savings potential. Furthermore, the impact study on closure and aggregation should be transparent. We should all know exactly how much the government intends to save on shutting down HV in the agder states, and what assumptions this is based on. As I see it, there is a lot of evidence that the government in this case will save “loose” in a very expensive way. The effort in connection with the fire in Fromand, as several of my colleagues have mentioned, clearly showed that the support from the district staff in HV-07 was essential for the HV teams to do the battle they did. The district staff has an in-depth knowledge of the local conditions of all the municipalities of Agder, and interacts closely with civil society. This is absolutely crucial for the quality of the effort, yes, a prerequisite for success. In the districts, therefore, there is a strong desire to stick to an HV management element in our area. If it's moved out to another state, HV will no longer be able to operate effectively with us. Let HV-07 remain in Agder!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1693	Norway is big, and most of it is north. The vast majority of Norway is the vast sea areas we have in the north. I am pleased with the policy revolution this government has done to so clearly strengthen the northern regions. Year after year, the defence county of Troms has experienced that the defense has been moved southwards. The defense was on the run south and out of the country. But now the defense is on its way home again. North Norway is back as operational headquarters. A reinforcement of the Army and the helicopter base in Inner Troms is being adopted today. The government's bet on the north is not just words, but is clearly seen in action. The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has today turned to the pulpit. I just want to remind the representative that one of the important reasons why there was no settlement in the Stortinget in this case was that the opposition was not involved in the Northern Region Strategy of the Government and the North bet. The vulture in South Travel shall be maintained. The South Route Control and Warning Station is doing an important, necessary and good job that it is important to strengthen in the future. I want to commend the local politicians in South Africa for having given good insight, providing documented good accounts that have shown the costs of possible closure and relocation, both economically, socially and competently. The Gumpen in Sørreisa has competence for the future. The future of Olavsværn in Tromsø is still on ice. But we all know that there will be an immediate debate on a possible planning and construction of a logistics ship. The decision will be between logistic ships or Olavsverscherung. For me, there is no doubt: Olavs protection must be prioritised in the future. It is a pleasure that the Government prioritises the Coast Guard. What is now at the heart of the long-term plan will enable the Coast Guard to perform its duties through the presence at sea of well-suited vessels and competent personnel. The presence of the Coast Guard is also important for good fishing and resource control. Coast Guards are also important for good preparedness in terms of rescue and environmental action. I am very pleased that the Defence Committee has equated the plane station of Evene with Ørland with the competition for the location of the new national fighter base. I believe Evenes must be the most operational option, but I look forward to an assessment of the different options. Today, in concrete action, this government is not only looking north, but acting and betting in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1712	I want to talk about our veterans. Many of them need help and strength in a different way after finishing their duties. I am pleased that the defense has bought back Bæria on Kongsvinger of LHL, and will use that practiology in its work in this area. This with Bæria is probably not just the Minister of Defense who is to be credited, as mentioned in an intervention by a Labour Party representative earlier today. Both in the previous period and during this period have, among other things: I signed both in speeches and in questions the State Council was stressing exactly about Bæria. But as I said, a lot of people have to share the honor and joy when Bæria can once again be used to improve the lives of the veterans who need this place. Part of this honour is to be given to the Minister of Defence - thank you! But in addition to Bæria, there is a lot left, among other things. in the case of social security benefits, medical assistance, etc. An overall committee is behind XI, where we ask the Government to promote a separate case where the needs, consequences and solutions associated with personnel involved in foreign operations. There's another kind of war and terror out there in the world today compared to the past. Therefore, it is very important that this matter comes as soon as possible. I can promise that the Progress Party will be a positive contributor to this being a good cause for those who have been, and those who will serve in the future, in international missions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1723	I find it regrettable that one failed to reach a broad settlement in such an important area as what we are discussing today, the organisation and operation of the Defence. It is an area where there is a need for long-termity, and it is an area where there is a need for broad consensus that several speakers have underlined in today's debate. I think it was SV's position on resource use related to the Defence and the government's need to deliver so-called North Region bet that stood in the way of the possibilities for a solution. I also think this case is an illustration of the fact that when you have a majority rule with parties that stand far apart in the questions you deal with, it is the internal drawdown that is crucial, and that limits the scope of action you have in meeting with the Storting. I'm sorry about that. Because it has meant that the public debate and process in the Storing has not affected the outcome, although there have been good reasons to deviate from the Government’s approach. Such reasons are linked to the proposal to move the Joint Operational Headquarters, where both the debate and the process have shown that the Government's arrangement is not a good solution. Moving FOHK from Jåttå to Retan does not give any savings, as one at the beginning of the process expressed, rather on the contrary. It is a scheme that involves poor use of resources for the defence resources we have, and it is a poor scheme when you think about recruiting and maintaining human resources. At all, the proposal is bad when you look at the needs of the defence and the operation in the broadest sense. Several speakers have also pointed out the implications of NATO cooperation, which were, of course, triggering when the headquarters was established on Jåttå. What I also want to find out is that, in reality, moving the activity that is currently on Jåttå to Retan does not mean a stronger North Region effort. There are completely different measures that could and should have been taken to achieve such a strengthened north-eastern focus. So we talk in many ways about symbol action, with strongly negative consequences. The Minister of Defence has been driven from opportunity to opportunity during the debate and has admitted that this is not about saving money. In many ways, we can say that the Jåttå people have won the debate but lost the battle.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1734	It's very good with some local politics rounds. But if FS 07 was a big call for help, the last hour has not been very helpful to the professional soldiers. At least that's for sure. Then I record that more from the opposition have read the Evening Post article where the three defense leaders write about Nordic cooperation. But no one from the opposition seems to have understood why that article was in the Evening Post. That they could write him in layers is that, but the reason why he's written is because they've discovered that NATO has drengs, the United States has drengs, first from Iceland and then from Norway. We're not going to be sorry for that, because they see tasks elsewhere, and they assume that the North is an area of the United Nations, and others of course think that it's capable of taking very much of its own security without the collective security and the agreements that go into it being somehow gone. There is a denationalisation of defence, and cooperation is forced. I haven't heard anything from the opposition that really wanted to do it. Governments have done so in all possible ways, including the professional militaries. The opposition has barely noticed it. They have read the evening post, but did not know what it was saying, and why it had to be there. The Norwegian NATO effort has been unbelievably good under this government. What are we getting? Well, politically, the civil trail has become more and more evident in NATO. In addition, we see that our women and men are out in e.g. The PRT in Meymaneh -- just not the most contentious area in Afghanistan -- gets to boast internationally about the way they solve their problems there. One says that they're following a line that draws up new visions of how military, civil and humanitarian organizations are going to work together. We can be proud of the Norwegian efforts in NATO - both on the ground and, not least, politically. Then I will only mention the good efforts of both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence when it comes to working actively in relation to rocket shield plans - and, not least, to getting in place that disarmament is a security threat. Our councils have done a great job in this area in NATO, which we can be proud of. I'm recording that the opposition is moving on to light-wise descriptions, like, for example. chaos and insecurity. We have seen that the Army has had some power struggles internally. There's a lot of power struggles going on in the defense, and in some cases, the Storting has to assume that the defense's going to fix it. In such a great state as they are, there are power struggles, but in some areas they simply have to deliver. They can never think of -- as there were trends in Afghanistan a while ago -- starting to draw into doubt about changes in the course, that we want more resources for training. Of course, we don't want weapons as aggressive as we do. tanks and bombers into our PRT, which we've been boasted about by a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1752	It was the strong criticism of the representative of Aspaker that made me take the floor again. She kept a loud post, but at the same time revealed that defence policy is not what she usually deals with. The representative Aspaker makes what is currently a defence budget microscopic in relation to the budgets that were submitted by the government her own party, Right, was part of, and where the Right had the Minister of Defense. It's not like that. The budget level is the same. It's almost just about adjustments. The representative Aspaker also scares with SV. Here I have to remind you that the government and the majority of the population, of whom SV is part, are strengthening the defence budget by 800 million. kr. I also noticed that the representative spoke a lot about the closure of Olavsværm. I thought that was all right. But I was surprised that the representative did not have a single positive word about everything that remains in that part of the country she is a representative of, and everything that comes to it. I believe that this is a great jubilee day for Troms County and for the northern part of the country as a whole. For representatives from some other counties, the criticism from the representative of Aspaker has to show something special. The presence of the defence in the north is strengthened by the presence of the FOHK in the north, the defence in Inner Troms is strongly strengthened, the control station in South Reisa is maintained, alliert training remains in the north, etc. All of us who are representatives from the north should be very satisfied with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1765	The base structure of the Air Force will not be clarified in this round. The government proposes that both Bodø and Ørland be continued as main aviation stations. Whether or not to do something about the base structure will only be clarified when the decision on new fighter aircraft is taken. I think it's a wise decision to make the decisions in the right order. In the Defence Study, the Defence Manager proposes that Ørland’s main air station be closed and that the operations be moved to Bodø. A comprehensive political environment in Trøndelag is totally incomprehensible to such a proposal, not on the basis of a regional policy justification, but on the basis of purely defence policy and military professional grounds. Örland Main Aviation Station has been designated as the training centre for allied air forces and as the training area for the NATO data and communication system, Link 16. In September 2007, Ørland was the main airfield host to NATO’s largest fighter flight. No other NATO departments have hosted such an exercise more than once than the Orland Main Aviation Station. The strength of Ørland Main Aviation Station is that it does not compete with civil aviation, that it has flexibility, and that there is advanced night training without restrictions. No other European air station can offer anything similar. This is why NATO sees itself serving the use of Ørland’s main aviation station as a training and training base and has contributed 120 million in the last five years. kr in operating aid. Training with fighter aircraft departments from other NATO countries also helps to link the alliance more closely to Norway. The consequence of any closure will be that Norway will not be able to offer NATO training options and that important NATO countries and others will not be given as good training conditions for their fighter aircraft as today. NATO has invested SEK 1.5 to 2 billion to support NATO's fleet of AWACS air navigation and control aircraft at the Ørland Main Aviation Station. With NATO's savings policy, a new base will hardly be established, or equivalent amounts will be re-invested in Norway. The probability that NATO chooses to withdraw these aircraft from Norway if the station is closed is therefore high. The AWACS aeroplanes are not least a good asset for Norway in monitoring the coastal areas of the north and are an important contribution to the detection of illegal fishing. In the long-term proposition, the Government writes: ‘Combat aeroplanes are important for the ability to assert national sovereignty and to establish and maintain the necessary level of control in their airspace.’;» For a country like Norway, with great geographical distances, I think it would be impossible to meet that goal with just one fighter base. Having just one base can easily put us out of function-- and put us in a very vulnerable situation. We have examples from this winter, as the fighter planes in Bodø could not get on the wings because of bad weather. Ørland was assigned to intercept Russian planes. I therefore hope that the government will return to Stortinget with a proposal that both Ørland and Bodø be maintained as fighter aircraft bases.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1789	We've just had a little bit of a private security briefing by the representative, Bjørn Jacobsen. NATO has never come to Finland, nor to Sweden. The Americans left Keflavik. The French were on NATO missions to Keflavik, and today's debate is about the rest of NATO in Norway - the Joint Warfare Centre and the AWACS in Ørland are going out. It would be a megasis for SV if they could, because then they would have got NATO out of Norway. The rest of us think it's a point to have more eggs in the basket, and more baskets to have eggs in. That is what the debate is about. So when I commend the defense for thinking Nordic, it's because they think in several lines. I didn't take the floor to comment on this a little strange contribution to security policy knowledge, but to raise the question: what is the salmon must test on the budget that we haven't got, but that comes? Well, it's about the Air Force, the Air Force, has enough money to allow pilots to fly so much that they don't lose their license, that the Army can practice, and that the Navy can sail. I'm gonna piss it off at Homeland. We're going to be able to get an ultrarapid shelter of approx. 5,000 to 10,000 if they don't get practice. Then in the system that would have 30,000, they'd be able to do it through the back way. That is why I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: Can the Minister of Defense guarantee that the protection of the home that we now receive with 45 000 people, and that the Minister of Defence and the majority believe that we do not need the guards to learn, will practice in a real way, that it does not just become a paper force? Can she guarantee that the politicians we know want this system alive will be able to see that these personnel are trained, and that it will not be that they want to cut it off at any time - because we have seen many applications for that through the one setting after the other - win? It's the litmus test. Can the Minister of Defence guarantee that the Home Office will be trained, so that after the closure of the Guards, through which the majority of them will get through, it will be a real exercise, which will still guarantee us a nationwide protection, which knows what is going on, so that we do not risk that it is only the forces of intervention - important enough as they are - who will be rehearsed? That's my question at the end of the debate. It's a lacmus test. If you can't practice Homeland Protection, you can trick whoever can practice. So I'm asking the Minister of Defense - you're going to do it three times if it's really important: can the Minister of Defense guarantee that the Home Office will practice in such a way that, after the decision to shut down the Guards, we still have a national, nation-wide protection that seriously knows what to do, so that it's not the last time we see 600 HV teams, as we saw in Fromand, and that there's a kind of TV memory that we can take with us and mutter about in later times? It is appropriate to pass the lacminates test. Then we cut to the bone, and that's the debate Left will follow up. But the question has been asked here today for an answer here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1802	The government has clearly stated that the northern regions are the main strategic focus. There are several reasons for this. One of them we were recently reminded when Russia put a Russian flag under the North Pole with a submarine. There is no drama behind that event, but it is a reminder of the importance of sovereignty in the northern regions. At the same time, the issue of the dividing line between Russia and Norway is unclear, although the government has made progress in that process. In this way, the visible, stationary presence of the Defence is essential. The 2007 defense study suggested that the area between the churches in the east and all the way to the Setermoen in Inner Troms should be exposed to stationary defence. It corresponded to the distance Oslo-Trondheim tour-return and is a whole 1,000 kilometers. I am pleased that the government parties state that the Porsangmo is not to be laid down. It is not easy to agree to move HV 18's activity out of the High Bay Museum, but by merging HV 17 and HV 18 and locating them to the Porsangmoen, we still ensure two operational defence facilities in the county. Porsangmoen is strategically located in the middle of Finnmark, in connection with Banak Airport, which has its third longest runway. You reach Halkavarre shooting range in just 3 minutes in the air. The proposal to shut down the Porsangmo has caused anger in the local population. It became a popular requirement that if the defense were no longer to provide the community with jobs and activity, it would no longer be able to block the area. Halkavarres are the only shooters in the country where you can use all types of weapons the Norwegian defense uses. You can go up to the heights of 25,000 feet, and it's open all year long. There are also no noise restrictions. There are clear relationships with both reindeer management and other local interests such as hunting and fishing. I would say that it is one of Europe's best shooting grounds. The good relationship between the local population and the defence, which has seized huge areas, needs to be ensured by providing the defence to the community. The government shows through these handles that there are still the northern areas that are the most important strategic field of action. I also feel the need to comment on the comments of the representative Dørum recently when he asked if he would no longer be doing any exercises. Home security has annual exercises, both regionally and locally, within individual areas. I don't remember that all of the Home Guard's more than 50,000 men have been gathered on Guards to practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1819	There are occasions when big debates are shattered by representatives attaching positions to other representatives whom they know very well that there are no votes. The representative, Stroem, was guilty of that. He claimed that the minority would actually stop the activity on Retan, and that we should say it outright, as he said. If he had read the setting, he would have known it was not right. I tried to get the word to clear up that misunderstanding. I didn't get that. I can see that, because there was probably no misunderstanding. The representative Stroem knows very well that what he said is not true. I am aware that the regulations require such an article to be relevant for the further word change. The President found that Mr. Stream’s contributions were not significant for the future change of words, and it should be noted by the representative Stroem. Then to the debate on the economy. I was more than surprised and am still a little upset that the Council of State does not at all understand why the opposition needs to go behind the figures. The reason is quite obvious: when the government invites us to a level of funding for 2012, we want to know what's behind the numbers. That the Council of State in its treatment of FS 07 itself has been pleased to be a rounding turn for the defense chief's calculations, is her case. And I respect that. But that doesn't mean that it's wrong that others are trying to get behind the numbers. When in the proposition, among other things, a warning that ‘the level of operation of the new vessels is not set at an excessive and unsustainable level’ tells us that, in terms of the level of operation, it is aimed at a level far below what is possible. It is clear that a national Parliament responsible must be able to verify that type of reasoning. The same is true, for example. on what the representative Dørum mentioned, namely the number of flight hours. When the head of defence is out and warns against the level of operation being reduced to such an extent that certificates are not maintained, it is clear that the Storting must be interested. We had actually thought that the Council of State would at least respect that position and not serve itself by a series--true to say-- pretty exotic arguments for us going into it. I used the expression "exotic arguments," and I'll just give you an example. Clearly, the fact that we did not ask any more questions was an argument from the Council of State. I want to remind you that when we saw the first 19 answers, we saw that within the time frame we didn't have the opportunity to dig all the way down the details along that line, so we had to give up. And then the Council of State uses that as an argument. It is not necessary to use all the notes that a Council of State gets stuck in its hands. This is an example that maybe you should edit it a little bit better than what the state council just did.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1833	I'm going to take 3 minutes to answer some questions. The first is about the veterans, who were asked questions. I can assure you that as far as the veterans and the veterans' rights are concerned, we in the Government have acted resolutely from day one. Many measures for the veterans have been implemented, and important legislative work on both economic rights and the right to health care is under way. I was asked about the marines. They're still going to be in Ramsund. They'll also be in Bergen, because they're dependent on both places. Of course, it is also the government's view that Home Affairs is important and does an important job, an important effort, not least in the area of social security, as we have seen in the South and have been stressed lately. But I also want to stress that it is not that the activity of Homeland Security depends on the number of districts. The vast majority of Homeland soldiers have never been to a district office, so of course we're going to be able to maintain a decentralized activity for Homeland Protection, even if you put together district offices. In general, I want to say that we don't get a better defense that we keep a number of infrastructures. What gives us better operational ability is exercise and activity. It is completely wrong that the defence capability is weakened, as someone has said, by this plan. We've addressed the challenges that are there. The fact that there has not been a balance between structure and economy in the current period is not the responsibility of this government alone. In fact, this is also the responsibility of the previous government. And the opposition is proposing to keep a lot of infrastructure. The opposition must then also bear in mind that from historical data up to the current year, questions are actually asked by financial implementation. The government is adding up to a significant growth in Defence, but I would like to stress that if there is really going to be a growth that is going to result in counting out, we are also dependent on both internal efficiency improvement and implementing a number of base measures. Finally, I want to say something about our relationship with NATO. We have received recognition from NATO to be willing to continue the transition in Defence in Norway. We're a significant contributor to NATO's operation, and we're an active member of the alliance. We still have to be, and we still need to support NATO's presence in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1851	The defence is going to get as much money as they just want, says the Progress Party, and it's going to get all the other sectors as well. But we don't know that's going to happen. It controls the economy, and it's not feasible. I would like to remind you once again of what I said in my post, that when the Progress Party had budgetary cooperation with the Right in the previous period, the Defense received no more than that that all of us have been granted. Then they come to the hall and say that they can't get the economy in the long term, and that everything is so very difficult. Then I think they could take the trouble of clarifying what is so difficult. They have not taken the trouble of clarifying anything - and they have had many opportunities. We have given them the opportunity to get into the areas that have been claimed to be insecure, and all wishes have been fulfilled. But I also have to ask the question whether it is that I am going to decide how many flight hours you should have to get a certificate. I'm counting on-- and I also have to trust-- that there's someone else in this system who's doing it and who's coming along with it. And then we have to trust that that's right. As far as the proposal from the Left and the Christian People's Party on the Army is concerned, it looks like what we also write in the setting, that we will build the Army further up in the long term. There's not a very big difference between the proposal that comes from these parties and what we write in the setting. Then to the representative of Bredvold. Everything has to be solved with money. But not even the Defense asks for it. It's an up-and-coming organization in line with everyone else, which will be effective and use the money sensibly, etc. Then you claim from Stortinget's pulpit that the Minister of Defense is doing a bad job. I think that's serious. Today, we have a defence minister who has cleared up everything messed up in the defence, and the economy is under control. The relationship with the human resources organisations is completely different than it was just three years ago, and the veterinary charges have been addressed. It's been cleared up in the medical situation in Afghanistan. The ethics of the defence and anti-corruption work have been addressed. A long-term plan with a large increase is now also being presented, and it is in balance. When it comes to Aspaker's story of the Right Defence Budget, it looks like an adventure -- something you would want, but you haven't.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1866	Unfortunately, we have witnessed for years that the defence has gradually become a priority. I would say it so strongly that the sitting government not only deprioritises the defense, but that they have started a systematic plan for the liquidation of the Norwegian defence. I think that's tragic, and I think that's too bad. I want to point out a few things and will naturally take care of the home security training at Værnes in central Norway. Some years ago, the Home Office had a setup of 83,000. Then the strength was reduced to 50,000, and now it is proposed in the new plan that it should be reduced by a further 5,000 - down to 45 000. The proposal for a further reduction, while at the heart of a quality reform, will result in a significant deterioration in HV operational performance. With the reductions made in the Army, it is currently in practice Home Protection that takes over territorial responsibility. HV training is essential for the quality and volume of the operational structure of the HV. HV training is very important for recruiting the HV response forces. An increasing number of staff in the response forces have their background to HV training. This is a fact. That's the situation. Even though we know that there is not enough training today and enough crew and will not be able to do so with the 45 000 proposed, the government and the majority in the Grand Duchy are still proposing that perhaps the country's best training centre be closed down within the HV. There is not a single defence policy argument to put it down. There are also not great savings in putting it down. But anyway, you choose to do it. I think it is tragic that we have a government that is so unresponsive about defence policy, which has so little ability to determine what kind of defence you want in the future, what it will look like, and how to bet. I also record in the media in Central Norway that both the parliamentary leader of SV, Inge Ryan, parliamentary leader of the Senterpartiet, Lars Peder Breck, plus the Right, Left and Advance Party have said that we want to maintain the HV training at Værnes. That is, there is a clear majority in this Chamber who want to maintain this education, but nevertheless the Workers' Party has used the whip and whipped the two small government parties in place, so that a decision is actually the opposite of what the majority wants. In conclusion, I would like to say that I also note that the representatives of the North who have previously stood up and said that they will fight with beaks and claws to maintain the HV training at Værnes, not even participate in this debate. I think that is disappointing too!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1881	Since I was elected to the Grand Council in 1997, I have participated in some such debates as this one. If this is the last time I do it, time will show. As usual, there's a lot of honeymoon coming from the red-green ones, that's from those who make the change that leads to closure. It's nothing new, but it's safe to try to have some kind of good conscience. This debate reflects what we have seen in previous debates, reducing and cutting down on defence activity. One reduces and gradually lowers the defense. It has happened over a long time, and it has happened under many governments. Then there are some representatives who have said that this is a strengthening of maritime defence. It's totally incomprehensible to me how you can stand on the Stortinge eloquent chair and say that this is a strengthening of the Maritime Defense. Within the current year's budget, maritime defence must reduce its sailing capacity by 25 pst. It's not a reinforcement of the Maritime Defense. It's a strengthening of the criminal activity that's happening out in our oceans. There it is. There it is. Strength. It's not a reinforcement of the Maritime Defense. So they say that putting down Olavs protection is also a strengthening of maritime defence. I think it's completely incomprehensible that you can say something like that, because if you look at the Olav protection and some of the other installations that are being proposed, that conclusion is drawn in FS 07. You start with the conclusion, and then you work out the argument. A single document has not been submitted to show that there is a basis for the closure of Olavs protection, whether defence or economic. It's a willingness to put this down. Then there's someone who's been inside the Defense Operational Headquarters. I just want to remind you that in 2001 it was the Workers' Party and the Right that tied their groups to add this to Yåttå. The Progress Party then proposed adding it to Bodø and Reitan. We thought at the time that it made sense. Now you suggest moving to Bodø. I will warn you most strongly against playing pingpong with important defense installations, depending on who controls this country at any time. It will help to weaken our credibility, especially towards the Allies. It will also help to undermine the jobs of those associated with these facilities, both now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1896	The debate has taken place significantly in temperature towards the end. I guess that's not the first time that happens. The reason I asked for the floor was 'a cruel sage' from the representative, Mr Vaksdal, who is not present in the Chamber. He rightly said that it was not a parliamentary correct expression to use the word «malfunction», but he was near to using it. Let me remind you of one thing. When we went into the discussion about Defense Study 07, it was clear from the Center Party that we should have the following process: we should define what kind of defense we should have to meet the challenges of the future, we should discuss structure, and then note that we have done that. We have come to different conclusions, but at least at the end of this debate let us be honest enough to say that nobody has the absolute truth. We think differently and put together a different picture. Let's not use this kind of expression that's been used in the hall, if the different conclusions we've drawn. Let us at least end the debate with respect for each other's conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1907	The last post of the representative Eye reminded me most of a witness from a awakening meeting. Since I'm from South Africa, I know how they're going. As glorified as this debate has become with the representative Eye, it is almost impossible to understand. From the Progress Party it was not said that we have money for everything, but we have enough money to cover the tasks the Defense will do in the future. We don't know what that is-- fully. There's no number material in the long-term study that says clearly what we're going to have, what we're going to invest, and what level of operation we're going to put on. So the representative said Eye that we could ask about that. Yeah, we did. The Council of State met in the Defence Committee and explained to us the figures on which it was based. It was then said that the basis for the figures was the Chief of Defence. That's not the same thing as saying that's the absolute truth. You have to be able to break down the numbers so that we can verify if they're really right. Then it was said that the Progress Party had been a supporting party for the Bondevik government. We did not get through our demands, but we were a supporting party. If we had got through the requirements, it would have been more for the defense. With the decisions taken in the hall today, a good deal of office business is being moved to North Norway. It's going to be a little bit of activity. It's said there should be two crews per. frigates and pers. naval vessel and continuous operation. I have 15 years of experience in the industry and know that continuous operation requires five shifts, not two shifts, so in one year it will be 8 790 hours. There should be two crews, and then I think the Working Environment Act will stop the continuous operation. Ten crews, which five frigates provide, are sufficient to operate two ships continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1918	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1921	The Minister of Defense answered me this way: we can keep the activities of Homeland even if we leave districts, and having exercises is necessary. It is my choice to interpret it in such a way that the Council of State guarantees that we do not get a weathering of the Home Protection system by aging them away in practice activities. Then I also took the floor to say that if the representative Eye and the Workers' Party think that the proposals of the Left and Christian People's Party are very good, it is just to vote for it. It's actually so simple in politics. I have also read the Committee's position, and I know the value of the words. This proposal is not incidentally promoted. It's promoted because we want to create a commitment. So here's an invitation to the Workers' Party's defense-friendly faction leader in the defense committee to take out his entire legend. She can show it today by voting in favour of the proposal presented by the Christian People's Party and the Left. She is welcome to join it, through the President!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1928	I support the representative Odd Einar Dørum in what he pulled up in his last post. The common proposal we have here is good and should be able to be joined by all those who are dedicated to strengthening the Army, without any major ties in it. One, at my discretion, good debate goes to the end. The differences are not so great, Thorbjørn Jagland was the strong message here, and I can agree with Jagland in that. They are not so big that there should not have been a chance that we could have negotiated with each other. Then it is more alarming that we have not been able to get over the wall that was, to find a consensus when the differences were not greater than what they were. The Northern Region perspective has been highlighted by all the speakers here, and it tells me that then the northern regions are important, whether you're talking about moving Yåttå or not, or whether you're going against maintaining Olavsværr. It must be possible to withdraw from this debate that we should have a defence structure in the north to meet the values, resources and challenges we have in the north. So the minister said something about Homeland. She said it's not the number of bases that determine the strength of Homeland Protection. We in the Christian People's Party agree. It's not the number of bases that decide. But on the other hand, it is very crucial that Home Security has its own education that takes care of the protection of homes. There has been one of the main arguments of the Christian People's Party in this debate. So I just want to end by saying that in the case of the vote, it would be important for the Christian People's Party to vote separately on proposal No. 2 from the minority. You, too, in the committee's recommendation, it is important that it be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1941	I did not get a response from the representative Dørum properly at the training level for Home Protection, and I would like to do so. It is based on what was decided in the context of the quality reform of St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004. That is what underlies and is the objective and cost-measured in this plan. In the case of the Air Force, e.g. 10 500 hours of flight time has been taken into account for F-16. As far as Maritime Defense is concerned, we are not getting the most modern of the world, so at least one of Europe's most modern maritime defenses, with new frigates, new MTBs and also new vessels throughout the Coast Guard. A sailing pattern has been established as recommended by the Marine Defence Inspector-General, which is a balance between being operational, training, and maintaining the vessels. It's also true that when we go from an old long-term plan to a new long-term plan, it's a transition, and we've also said that we're stepping up the appropriations in this context. These are the objectives of the plan. This is what's cost-calculated, and this is what we've actually inputted. With regard to the operation of the MTBs, it has been said by several that this has not been the case with the head of defence. The Defence Manager started from the current year’s budget level. The government and I have recommended that we take in MTBs and a number of other structures. That's why we have the 800 million. kr, which also involves the construction of the Army.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1954	The representative Bendiks H. Arnesen had recently spoken, and tried to speak away from the fact that the defence budget is unbalanced both in the short and long term with the government's arrangements. The representative also tried to talk away from the fact that SV is now embossing the appropriations for the defense, and that these have gone down. I am firmly convinced that if the Labour Party and the representative of Arnesen had been given free priority, the defence would also have had a better budget. The long-term defence plan is about doing what is right for the defence in the present and future, and making the most of scarce resources and investments already made. That's why it's right to continue to bet on Ramsund, with its special design for the Marines that's being sent out in some of the toughest assignments, among other things. in Afghanistan. It is therefore also important to continue the site in Gumpen in South Africa for defence policy reasons. The bonus for the municipality is that they retain important skills jobs. I'm glad that Inner Troms gets his position fixed as the center of gravity of the Army with its functions. Something else would be economically irresponsible, if we took into account the huge investments made in the area that have calculated life expectancy for decades to come. Trom's military hospital has good and long-term cooperation with civil health and is located in one of the core areas of land operations. In the future, the TMS will be a competence and training institution for key elements in the Defence. The proximity of the Army and cooperation with civil health services are essential for the success of the role of battlelab. This cooperation is also necessary in order to meet the 180-day response time requirement for the surgical unit administered to the TMS in the autumn of 2008. Cooperation with UNN on the pressure tank on Olavsværm is now at risk when the Government shuts down the base. This is proven to be a lifesaving offer, and I have not heard any representatives from the government parties come up with suggestions on how to dissolve access to the pressure tank when the Olav protection is shut down. Ramsund also has such a pressure tank, and instead of weakening health care by jeopardising the provision of Olav protection, it should be in the interests of the Government to facilitate even better cooperation between the civil health services and the defence of such an important offer. So far there has been a complete silence on that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1968	Per Roar Bredvold has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1971	The representative eye allow me words that I have not said in my three minutes. She claimed that I have said that the Minister of Defense is doing a bad job. As I said, I have not done this. I referred to an article in the VG - which also has a circulation of approx. 300,000 on 14 June 2008, where people were asked if individual state councils do a good or a bad job. I said only 20.9 pst. believes that the Council of State is doing a good job - during the process of joining the Workers' Party, and far below the start-up of the government parties. That's what I said. If I personally believe that the Council of State is doing a good or a bad job, the representative will not be heard from this pulpit. My advice to the representative Eye is that she should be careful to attach wrong opinions or quotes to other representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1978	Signe Eye has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1981	It was good to hear the representative Bredvold, then we agree. So it was for the negotiations that have been a lot up in the debate, and that did not come into being. I would argue that the Labour Party and the government parties showed a very strong willingness in the negotiations. We'd bet on the Army. We thought it was wrong to maintain even more bases. And I see it as the representative Bent Höie let the cat out of the bag from this pulpit. He said that the opposition put down an ‘absolute’ relative to FOHK. That's exactly what they did. We thought if we were to bet more, it had to be on the Army. That's where the negotiations broke down. So the representative, Aspacer, says that the long-term proposition is unbalanced. No, but the previous long-term plan was unbalanced. It took care of the right, and it even stands in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e1990	I agree with Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland that we should not make more of the disagreement than that is the basis for it. But at the same time it must be stressed that there are considerable differences, and that that is why it was not possible to reach agreement, but we do not make it larger than necessary. I would like to remind you that the Right would like to have put forward proposals on, for example: Keeping 50,000 in Home Protection or doing something about the pay system in Home Protection, but we found out that under the circumstances we had to pay attention to other things. So we've also shown restraint from our side. I would warn the majority of the Storting against making too much of the disagreement in the base area about getting money, because I would like to remind you that the government's proposal is about 800 million. kr in relation to the position of the head of defence. The proposals we are now making are essentially about building up the Army. But the disagreement with the bases and facilities is based on the government's own estimates of 275-375 million. kr, i.e. plus/minus 1 pst. of the budget. The government can't with any credibility say that there's a kind of'make it or break it' for the budgets, so now I think the argument must be kept within the framework of reasonableness. Otherwise, I would like to say the following about the northern regions: it is very good to say about the Northern Region policy of the Government, perhaps primarily in areas other than the Defence. I guess that's not where the big things happen, but it's very nice to say about it. I have to say, on the other hand, that especially when I listen to the speakers of the Workers' Party, they take full care of being content with themselves. When you listen to some people, you should even think that they had invented Northern Territory policy. They have not done so, but they have made the valuable contribution and carried it on. There is a great and good effort now, among other things. to sell it out, and that's very good. But the idea that this was something the Workers' Party has invented and is alone about, I would recommend that you try to get rid of it. We see, among other things, by the committee setting that the Workers' Party will not even be involved in recognising the history, which is quite obvious, on the basis of the wish that it is, as it were, the Workers' Party alone that knows. The Labour Party now has a significant credibility problem. I think everyone who can read polls see that. I might recommend relieving language usage. It can increase credibility, and it can be wise in the big context. Since Bjørn Jacobsen is coming after me, I just want to give the government praise at one point, and it's about the description of the rocket shields in this setting. It is liberatingly free from Soria Moria rhetoric, and was probably a preparation for the landing that has now arrived. So this was significantly better than what we saw at Soria Moria. Finally, on the proposals. I think it's easy to misunderstand the position of the committee, because the majority has changed something. The Progress Party and the Right have a majority in the Committee, and it therefore forms part of II, while you are the proposal of the Labour Party and the Government Party. So here it's swapped. So, finally, a request about the voting system. The proposals of the Left and Christian People's Party go in the same direction as, among other things, my proposal and that of the Procedural Party. At least for the Right, we would appreciate whether the vote could be organised so that we could vote in a subsidiary way for the position of the Left and Christian People's Party, if that were possible, because it goes in the same direction, even if it doesn't go as fast as we could expect it to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2005	Bjorn Jacobsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2008	Just before Easter, the last NATO operational element in Norway was dropped. It seems that the Left has not got it. But that means a good deal for how we're going to think in the future for the Defense, not least when we're dealing with the Long-Term Plan. So if left over for the next period, for example. If the defence is so high that they are able to participate in the defence committee, they may, in fact, be able to bring the operational element to an end. It has come to two Nordic elements. There are enough peace elements, but they are also operational. This is the cooperation that takes place with Iceland and, of course, with the Nordic Battle Group. And then I see that the opposition has done two things. One thing I should be happy to do, and that is that SV decides very much in government. For all things, if they mean it, it doesn't do anything for me. But then the second main argument is that they don't understand numbers. And how can you make a good deal of a deal with someone who doesn't understand a number? They're still prosecuting. We now have four-five hours with the debate, and they still don't understand numbers. All of these parties have once had defence ministers, and they could have called them if they didn't have information about how things are going in the defense. There should be some honesty in that. So short at last. Of course, we have also had alternative budgets before, where it was NOK 3-4 billion less. But remember - no more than 3-4 billion kr less!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2019	Through this debate, it has, among other things, has been pointed out that, yes, the Progress Party has money for everything. Of course, we don't have that, but we have money for much more than what the government has, obviously. We have money for roads, we have money for railways, we have money for hospitals, we have money for schools, we have money for hospitals, we have money for hospitals, and so on. It doesn't have the government. I think that's a paradox. In the change of words with the Council of State, I asked because economics is so important: what additions does the Council of State see in the budgets of the next few years? I never got an answer to that. I would like to refer to a comment that the Progress Party has put in, and I could imagine that the Council of State commented on what she thinks of it: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party shall be responsible for adapting the defence structure to the tasks assigned to it. Furthermore, these members believe that the structure and tasks of the defence must be financed on the basis of current needs at all times, as it is the task of the defence that must guide the economy and not the opposite. These members therefore consider it natural that the annual budgets should be adjusted in accordance with the structural and operational requirements of the defence.’.» It's the first time, of the long-term propositions I've experienced, that no annual budgets have been entered. That may be good, for it has been done in the past, but the annual budgets have never been kept when we have come to the budgetary procedure in the autumn. I could imagine hearing if the Council of State at least has a certain sense of what this is going to look like, and if she might think it's natural to agree with what we're saying, that we see it as 'naturally the annual budgets are adjusted according to the structural and operational requirements the defence is given' - almost at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2031	As Finnmark's representative, and because I'm very concerned about the Defense, I feel the need to say a few words in this debate. I am very pleased when the defense committee now takes the sense and does not follow the proposal that lay on the table to move all the business away from Porsangmoen - in the heart of Finnmark. If the proposal had been implemented, a county of the size of Denmark would only have a defence located on the border east of the county. We need the clear presence of Defence in Finnmark. We need to assert our sovereignty, and we need to secure our resources here as well. For me, this is very much about preparedness and crisis management, and how important civil-military cooperation is in this huge state of ours - with the great distances, the scattered settlement and the tough climate that we have large parts of the year, as well as poor infrastructure in the form of e.g.. roads and mobile coverage in many places. In this context, it is very important that the Home Office is now located as centrally as possible. The Finnish coast is currently operated by oil tankers up to 125 000 tonnes. This traffic and activity will increase considerably in the coming years in terms of both ship size and oil quantity. The rescue exercise ‘Barents Rescue’ outside the Finnish coast in 2005 showed with all clarity how fully we depend on the participation of the Defence Agency if, for example, it is. major accidents shall occur. Defence equipment and top-rate soldiers for such conditions were absolutely essential for the exercise to be carried out at all. The defence is currently the only organisation present in the state that has the necessary competence, infrastructure, efficiency and stamina to carry out the necessary work by, for example: a major breakdown of an oil tank. The defence is therefore essential for the proper civil and military emergency preparedness to be maintained within as large a maritime and land area and under such extreme weather conditions as we have. This is about the vulnerability of the population in our largest and largest state in the north. Therefore, the defence in Finnmark must be strengthened rather than dismantled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2044	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2047	The number material contained in the long-term proposition is unsatisfactory. I can take an example. By merging HV-07 and HV-08, it is said that 20 million can be saved. kr per. years. The defense's own people in Homeland have calculated this very carefully, saying that the maximum savings are NOK 650,000. The deviations are huge. This is one example. Several examples could be mentioned, but time does not allow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2053	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3942]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2069	The purpose of St.prp. No 55 for investment in Defence is to request the approval of Stortingen for the start of two new investment projects and to ask for approval of changes to previously approved projects and to inform Stortinget for future, planned projects and other measures. The starting point for the approval of the investment projects in the Defence is the budget proposal for 2007-2008. The proposition has the following contents: Approval of the cost framework for two new material projects, chapter. 1760 item 45: the logistical project of the LOS programme in Defence, and participation in a multi-national strategic air transport capacity programme Approval of the modification of the scope and cost framework of two previously adopted property, construction and civil engineering projects, chapter. 1710 item 47: Setermoen - multi-purpose hall - phase 3 and interconnection of Mauken-Blatin firing range Approval of modification of scope and cost framework for previously adopted material project, chapter. 1760 item 45: New frigatesInformation cases, cap. 1710 and cap. 1760: Increased recruitment of women in Defence, phase-out of C-130H Hercules transport aircraft, replacement of armoured vehicles for use in foreign operations, and new fighter aircraft The LOS programme in Defence contains several projects to establish a common integrated management system, the FIF, in Defence. The first major delivery project was launched in 2003 and provided the Defence Agency with a new system of external accounts. The second major project is the economic project. The economic project under the LOS programme will provide a solution during 2008 that will provide defence with a common system of internal economic accounts, governance, management and material accounts. In this context, it is important to note that the logistical project remains. This project will provide savings opportunities, and we therefore see the need for a continuation of the project. Furthermore, the proposal deals with participation in a multinational strategic air transport capacity programme. The Ministry of Defence has analysed the needs of ‘conceptual solution’ for military air transport capacity and concluded that the Defence needs both tactical and strategic air transport capacity, cf. St. pp. No 78 for 2006-2007. In this context, it is important that the tactical part of this capacity be under national ownership and control. Based on the decision to buy new C-130J Hercules transport aircraft, it is an acceptable solution that the strategic part can be part of a multinational pool. On the other hand, the progress party wonders that today's C-130H Hercule transport aircraft have been removed from service, after it has been granted approx. 300 million. kr for the maintenance of these aeroplanes until 2007 in order to ensure an operational capacity up to approx. 2015. In this context, the Progress Party wishes to refer to St.prp. No 1 for the 2006-2007 budget for the 2007 budget, where the following emerges: ‘A contract has been concluded to replace the outer wings of four of our C-130 Hercules transport aircraft to remove the restrictions imposed in April 2005. These restrictions were imposed on the recommendation of the aircraft manufacturer and have reduced aircraft capacity mtp. range, load capacity and operating range. This shift of outer wings, seen in the context of a minor upgrade of some of the aeroplane components, will allow the aeroplanes to perform all types of known tasks up to approx. 2012-2015.’ By the fact that these Hercules aeroplanes are already being phased out, the objective of their possible use by 2015 cannot be achieved. Finally, the Committee assumes that the costs of all projects such as St.prp. No 55 deals with, is being complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2104	The rapporteur has given a good indication of the Committee's position, and the vote is unanimous on all points except one. That's why I'm going to spend my time on what we disagree about. Actually, this disagreement is somewhat strange, because I thought we all had the same goal: to give the soldiers as quickly as possible the increased safety of new planes could provide. This disagreement goes back to the decision Stortinget made exactly one year ago, when we extended the spring session, and the majority, with the exception of the Progress Party, decided to purchase new transport aircraft C-130J. It was a necessary and correct decision. But it actually seems that this is a sore point for the Progress Party, and they write in the setting that they expect the Government to have a solution to the tactical air transport capacity. Yes, the solution to the tactical air transport capacity lies precisely in the purchase made last summer by the majority of the Grand Council and voted against by the Progress Party. Already then we knew that the old Hercules planes had flown with operating and tactical restrictions for a long time, and that the best and fastest solution was to buy new planes and get them operational as soon as possible. That's why it was right to put the 335 square onto the training status early in 2007. There have been large operating costs to maintain the old aeroplanes. Therefore, they should be phased out. Only in that way can we get the fastest possible phase-in of the new transport aircraft, as it is now being added up, and so that we can establish tactical flight capacity as quickly as possible, based on our own aircraft. This will increase the safety of the soldiers, including: in Afghanistan. The first aircraft will be delivered to the fall this year and the next three in 2009 and 2010. The working party believes that it is not appropriate from a technical, economic and operational point of view to operate two aircraft types in parallel, and it will delay the phase-in of the new aeroplanes. Now we have to focus on the introduction of the new planes. Therefore, we agree that the old aeroplanes are phased out, so that Norway achieves satisfactory tactical flight capacity as soon as possible that can be used both at home and outdoors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2115	Over several years, there has been a discussion of what to do with our after every older transport fleet, aircraft approaching 40 years, which has had a very large number of hours of work. These have been aircraft that the Defense, and also the civil, have benefited very well. The Progress Party has proposed several times to buy new, but without having a majority. Then it was finally decided that we would buy. The purchase itself was not so much a disagreement about, although the choice of the brand was discussed and the Progress Party could think of another and better suitable aircraft type. It was then said by the Government that the hundreds of million dollars we spent on upgrading and repairing the old planes would be a good investment. The planes C 130H would be simple to sell. Now it turns out that this is not the case, and you can ask yourself if this once again is the money that the defense has used without giving anything back. It was also said that with such an upgrade we would be able to get an economic, cheap and acceptable transport ticket up to approx. 2013-2015. Unfortunately, this was not the case, and many millions of dollars were used for no use.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2124	I see that there is mostly a great deal of consensus in terms of the investment proposition, but that once again try to start a debate on the new transport planes. Then I just want to refer to what I briefed on last year, both before we went to the acquisition, and when we had the case for treatment in Stortinget on 19 June last year. I said it so that in a short interval we have to rely on commercial solutions. The Air Force Transport Aircraft Environment is so small that there is no capacity to operate two aeroplane types in parallel. Both from a technical, economic and operational point of view, such a solution would be of little use, and it would also delay the phase-in of the new aeroplanes. Now we get the new planes, the first one in October and the second one in March next year. When we went to this quick acquisition, it was precisely because it was the fastest way we could once again become operational. I also remember that when we started the upgrade of the wing shift, corrosion was revealed, which showed that we would not be able to maintain the planes in the condition that we had initially wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2133	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3943]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2149	It's a unanimous committee that's behind St. Prp. No 67 for 2007-2008 as regards amendments to the Regulation for Appendix etc. to designated herds of compulsory protection. The regulation of outsourced compulsory ratings is 7,3 pst. from 1 July 2008. The additional expenditure amounts to 26.8 million. kr. Corresponding regulation for civil guardians is SEK 2.2 million. kr for 2008. The regulatory proposal is based on mediation results between the State and LO State and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2158	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3944]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2174	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3945]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2190	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2199	The Health and Welfare Committee believes that the aim is to reduce the use of coercion in people with mental illness, developmental retardation and dementia in Norway. It is very worrying that the use of coercive measures is increasing. Forces are perceived as offensive and may help to weaken the confidence of the treatment device. In the book Letter to a Minister, a woman writes it this way: ‘Those who coercive me only come unsolicited, take me with me without shoes, clothes, money and without explanation why.’ [[...]] Data from SINTEF from 2003 show that every fourth patient in mental health protection has been coerced. Every day, the decision on coercion is taken, which deprives about 30 people of the right to decide on themselves. There are two reasons for coercion: either that he is at risk to himself or others, or that it is in the best interests of the patient -- this is the so-called treatment criterion. It's the last thing that's disputed in particular. According to SINTEF, the treatment criterion, and only that, is used in four out of five coercive decisions in 2003. The former head of mental health has pointed out that as long as the treatment criterion is available, mental health protection does not take seriously the alternative treatments that actually exist. The follow-up by the Council of State to previous decisions of the Health and Care Committee to assess the need for the treatment criterion of the Mental Health Act is of great importance. The extent of the use of coercion in mental health protection, but also social and geographical differences in the use of coercion, is in itself a reason for an action plan to be put in place. In the case of social differences, it turns out that people who struggle economically and socially are most often subjected to coercion. In the case of geographical differences, there is up to 12 times as much coercive use in one area as in another. It shouldn't be like that. All must be ensured equivalent health care, irrespective of their place of residence and social status. It needs to focus on cultures and attitudes in healthcare. One measure must be that areas with a high level of coerciveness must learn from areas with low coerciveness. A very important input was made in the committee hearing of this representative proposal, which is from the Left. I want to praise the representative from the Left who is sitting here today, who has taken the initiative to get this debate today. Both Mental Health Norway, the National Association of Psychiatry and the Landsförening We Shall Overcome pointed out in the hearing, among others. the need to focus on human rights. These support the proposal that health professionals should have their own training in the field of human rights, which is not currently available. The Association for the Family of Psychiatry emphasises that Norway has undertaken to respect and respect human rights conventions, where the European Convention on Human Rights is of the greatest practical importance in relation to coercion in mental health protection. I mention the prohibition of torture and inhuman treatment, the right to freedom, the right to respect for privacy, family life and correspondence, and the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. What most of us take as a matter of course is actually not for everyone. Despite the fact that we have had an escalating plan, we are in no way in port. Actually, there's a lot left. Mental Health highlights the situation in municipalities as a reason for the increasing use of coercive measures in mental health protection, and they therefore want further designation of the contraceptives for mental health. The Christian People's Party, in the context of the treatment of the municipal proposition, opposed the inclusion of the stepping-up funds for mental health protection in the framework of the municipalities. In our opinion, it is not appropriate to do so until the situation, in particular for the long-term disease with complex needs, is improved. I am promoting the proposal No. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2223	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2226	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough review of the setting. I also think that is an important theme for the Left in its proposal for a representative. It is good that we have a debate on the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection. There is an overall committee that is concerned that the use of coercion is increasing. Forced use can be experienced both as a dramatic instrument and as an attack on its integrity. I am also concerned about forced use from the perspective of the debates we have had on social differences, on which the rapporteur was concerned. I am aware that poverty and homelessness are closely linked to the use of coercion. The causes here are complex, but this is clearly a field you have to go into carefully. It is alarming that the context here is as strong as they are. In the government parties, we agree that the focus on human rights in healthcare needs to be increased, and that there is a need for increased knowledge of legal regulation and the practice of coercion among employees. I am aware that the Social and Health Directorate has previously been given the task of reviewing the content of today's specialist training courses, with a focus on, among other things. training in relevant legal provisions and ethical dilemmas related to the use of coercion. This is an important work, and I am concerned that the progress here must be good. Clinical ethics committees also have as part of their mandate to contribute to increasing the competence of employees in clinical ethics and to providing guidance on ethical issues, as well as advice and guidance. The use of coercion is a central theme in the work of the committees. We have qualified health professionals in Norway, including in this area. They generally do a very good job for patients. They're doing their best. At the same time, there are large differences between health enterprises in the prevalence of coercion. Some enterprises have many times as high an incidence of coercion as others. It can only be partly due to factors that cannot or should not be affected. When the differences are as large as they are, they may be due to large geographical differences and differences in the traditions and cultures of the different entities. I am sure that some simple steps can be taken to disseminate good practices between different companies. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Working Party, the Right, the SV and the Centre, point out that the current ‘Action Plan for the reduction and quality assurance of the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection’ fulfils several of the objectives of the proposed representative. The plan has, as its main objectives, increased volunteering, quality assurance of coercive use, increased knowledge and improved evidence of coercive use. The majority refer to the proposals contained in the document and ask that the current action plan be supplemented by further measures to reinforce efforts to reduce and ensure the quality of the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection. On the basis of this, we propose that the motion for a resolution be annexed to the Minutes. In the end, I just want to add that of course I am concerned that there must be good contact with patient and family organisations on these issues, because even the relatives may need a great deal of information and assistance when it comes to their relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2247	Despite many years of common policy objectives, there is still a large number of people who are subjected to unnecessary and degrading coercive treatment on a daily basis. It is absolutely necessary to take seriously the many charges of assaults and violations that come from patients and relatives. These charges are also supported by health professionals, and in many cases health professionals are just alerting about unworthy conditions. Since the mid-1990s, the Progress Party has been opposed to proposals to regulate the use of force and power in psychiatry and in relation to people with mental retardation, and has already promoted proposals to introduce a right law 13 years ago. This is just as topical today. The Progress Party will not legitimise the use of coercive and restrictive measures by law. Forces and restrictive measures should, as we see it, be limited to emergency services, and no other form of use of power against mentally ill persons should be allowed than that in general in society, where the exercise of power can only be used as emergency and emergency services. This also encouraged the Progress Party to propose during the examination of Ot.prp. No 65 for 2005-2006. The SINTEF report of June 2007 shows that the use of coercion continues to increase in relation to patient groups such as mental retardation, mental illness and dementia. The Council of State stated on 13 November: ‘According to the Government’s assessment, the coercive provisions of health and social legislation are in accordance with human rights.’ However, the findings of the SINTEF report do not indicate that current legislation ensures these groups against abuse and unnecessary coercive measures. I refer to the interpellation debate in Stortinget on 13 November last year, where several of the results of the SintEF report presented were drawn up. In fact, Norway is known internationally for having a high level of coercive use, and from 2001 to 2005 the use of coercive measures increased by nearly 50 pst. Large geographical variations have also been identified which cannot be explained by differences in morbidity or other demographic conditions. According to the SINTEF report, it was surprising that a high level of care seems to be associated with frequent use of coercive and mechanical coercive agents. Some relationship with the severity could not be found either. While the debate on health policy has often claimed that there is a strong link between formal competence and coercive use, few studies show such a link. In fact, staff with a long professional experience are often found to have better training in conflict situations and to use methods other than coercion more frequently. Perhaps in many cases it is about the individual’s safety in relation to his/her working situation. Although the causal relationship is difficult to trace, the speech of the figures is clear: it goes in the wrong direction. With regard to the transport of patients by emergency hospitalisations, there have been several occasions in this room in recent years. The European Torture Committee has criticised Norway for the use of handcuffs and ankles in such situations. Health Bergen has followed up this criticism by establishing an ambulance service that has the primary responsibility for the transport of mentally ill people. In fact, very many forced situations could have been avoided if there had been political will to set up a similar ambulance service in the rest of the country, as the Progress Party has suggested. Mental Health issued strong warnings in 2001 against the closure of more institutional sites. Their fears were not unjustified, as we are constantly receiving concerns that qualitative alternatives to abandoned institutional sites are not built up. The most serious mentally ill often feel excluded and stigmatised in society, and the use of coercion continues to increase. This also applies to the increasing number of elderly people who are now in short-term hospitalisation or who are at home without treatment, but who should have had treatment on a DPS or on a daily psychiatric ward. This was also mentioned in Today's Medisin on June 5, and we had a debate on it in April. As far as psychiatry is concerned, it is important that more people are built and that they are manned. The Progress Party believes that the designation of psychiatry products must continue until we achieve the objectives of the psychiatry plan. The Council of State refers to the composition of a working group during these days and to the start of its work in August 2008. The Progress Party will point out the value of the strong representation of user organisations and that their input and competence from the point of view of users/patients need to be emphasised in the further work. The Progress Party will focus on patients’ human rights situation and believes that fundamental rights could contribute to the fight against coercion. The Progress Party will support the proposal presented in Document No. 8:98, and the two proposals promoted by the Christian People's Party and the Left, but at the same time, believe that the action plan must also include the establishment of a law of rights involving the abolition of the use of coercion and power in relation to persons with mental illness and ensuring that such instruments are used only in emergency and emergency situations, as is otherwise the case in society. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2292	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2295	The matter raised by the rapporteurs from the Left is important. It is important for many reasons - health policy and, not least, ethical reasons. It is worrying that we in Norway later have a significantly higher level of coercive use in mental health protection than our neighbouring countries have, with the reservation that it is possible that the statistics are not 100 pst. comparable. Anyway, there are clear indications that we have an excessive volume of coercive use. But the answer to that, I don't think, is the way of the Advancement Party, that is to say, to reject this by removing the legal barriers that exist today, which are reasonably precise, and then leave everything to general principles of emergency. The question to ask then is, Is it reasonable to assume that it will reduce the volume of forced use? For me to look at, the answer to that question is no. All you want to achieve with that is to make it even more unclear to those who work in the field of mental health protection, where the boundaries are to go, and there can be no contribution to solving the problem. ‘Compulsory treatment’ is a word formulation that is in many ways a paradox, because in all common context, treatment is of course something you want, and something you go into voluntarily. It is also, in most contexts, the condition that a treatment course can be successful, especially where there is no somatic disease, but mental illness. Nevertheless, reality is contradictory, and all experience both in our healthcare system and in other countries shows that there are situations where there is a need for legal support in order to coerce patients. It is also clear that there are situations in an institution treatment course where difficult situations arise that it is impossible to deal with them without a direct risk of life — without a legal basis for coercive use. In my opinion, there are no more action plans that are the most important in getting a grip on this. I think perhaps the most important comment in the committee position is that of all parties except the Progress Party, which refers to the need for the development of ‘educational material with a focus on human rights for use by health professionals in the care of demented, mentally retarded and mentally ill’. I think this is a neglected area of education provision, both in basic education and in subsequent further education. And I definitely believe that there's a lot to pick up by intensifying the teaching process around this to make everyone who works in mental care aware of the difficulties in this area. I also believe that there is another measure that is perhaps most important in the longer term, namely to ensure that general mental care becomes so good that people in need of help get it at the right time, that is, at a sufficiently early stage in the development of crisis symptoms. The reason why there's too high a volume of coercive use is that the interventions usually come at too late a time. If we are able to develop care in this area so that people get professional help in the right phase, it will probably be the most effective measure in reducing coercive use.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-19.ana.ud497e2314	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late, and the Stortinget is now taking a break until noon. 18th@item: inlistbox - The first speaker at the evening meeting is Kirsti Saxi.
