ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e54	The legislative proposal presented here, which we are about to deal with now, is essentially about making the data protection law more effective to enforce its intentions with new technologies. The legislative proposal is three-thirds, and the first part is about an authorisation to draw up regulations so that the intention of the law can be respected. The reason for this round now is the rights and obligations of employers and employees in relation to the e-mail box. In the proposition, the ministry has gone a long way in sketching what the regulation will look like. The Committee welcomes the signal contained in the proposal and is supported by all parties in the Committee. The second part of the bill is about allowing the Data Protection Authority to issue an infringement fee, so that the Data Protection Authority can be more effective in relation to those who violate the Data Protection Act’s intentions. The third part is about granting the central government collection centre a special authority, so that they can recover, among other things. infringement fee, issued by the Data Protection Supervisor. The Committee broadly agrees with the intentions of the proposal. The only small difference is that the Progress Party wants this to be in the Working Environment Act, while the other parties will have a reference clause in the Working Environment Act that points to the Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e71	Let me first of all thank the case rapporteur for an excellent review of the matter. I'm not going to go this particular way; I'm just going to say that we fully agree with the intention, but we therefore believe that that legislation should be linked to the Working Environment Act. We believe that this would have been more correct, as some of the hearing bodies also point out. In addition to this, we want to provide better information on the rights of employees in this type of case. We also promote a proposal calling on the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal. I bring this up with the proposals of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e80	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e83	Since the Left is not in the Committee, I would also like to express my pleasure that we are now finally getting an opportunity to regulate the employer's ability to access the e-mails of employees. For the Left, strong privacy is essential for individual freedom and democracy, and it is therefore very unfortunate when such a space of justice is created that threatens to erode privacy in the workplace. We therefore fully agree that the home should be placed in the Data Protection Act, which aims to clarify how personal data can be processed. In recent years, the Swedish Data Protection Authority has received quite a number of enquiries from employees who feel monitored by the employer’s reading their e-mail and may cause discomfort in a job. We therefore agree with the Progress Party that there is a need for better information on the rights of workers, as well as good information on where workers can turn when they feel unwarrantedly monitored at the workplace. The Left will therefore support the proposal of the Progress Party, No. 2, when it comes to treatment here in Stortinget. The Minister of Labour and Inclusion said earlier in the autumn that the Department is working to give the Labour Inspectorate the opportunity to intervene in such matters with the instruments provided by the Labour Environment Act, such as: by imposition or periodic penalty payment. The Left therefore hopes that the Government will return to the Storting as soon as possible with changes to ensure that employees’ rights are adequately respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e92	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 145]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e108	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e115	There are increasing numbers of cohabitations rather than marriage, and there are increasing numbers of older Samaritans in Norway. By introducing the right of succession and the right to change for co-workers under certain conditions, the Norwegian archova, in the opinion of the Committee, will become both modern and future-oriented. Today, Samaritans have no right to inherit each other by law. One must write a will. With Sambuarna's life heirs, two thirds of the wealth is compulsory inheritance for the heirs. Sambuars without children can freely dispose of each other through will today. This law change is not changed. First of all, the amendment of the law includes the right of joint-child samburs to inherit directly from each other up to 4 G in the requirements of the law. But it is not a question of full equal treatment for spouses and cohabitants with regard to inheritance rights. Joint children will say that one has, has had, or is waiting for children with sambuar. After that, I call this only a common child. The Committee does not share views on the amount limit and distribution between partners and life heirs. The majority of the committee, all the non-participating Progress Party, advocates that inheritance by law be limited to four times the basic amount, and that the legal inheritance should go ahead of the life heirs, where the arc is not large enough to cover both. The Party of Progress enters that if the inheritance is less than 8 G, the Sambuar shall only be entitled to half of the inheritance. The other half shall be divided equally between the life heirs. Finding the right relationship between an individual’s right to inheritance and the inheritance of individual life heirs is complicated and difficult. The financial framework and the perception of justice will vary from family to family. By taking advantage of sambuar, in small arcs, under 4 G, the children do not receive inheritance from mother or father, nor do they have the right to the personal objects of the deceased, things can have great affect value for the children. When sambuar inherits everything, it probably feels more wrong for special coal-born than for common sources. Common children usually have a community of interests with their live mother or father. One can ensure that objects of high affinity and similar value come to special coal-born via will or will interpretation. You can also choose to ignore the inheritance of Sambuar via wills. The requirement is that sambas should be familiar with this. Marriage does not allow a person to deviate from this 4 G spouse's preference. The law changes will also apply to Samaritans who do not have common children but who have been partners for five years or more. Then one is dependent on will. This issue also applies if you have entered into a new marriage, but as I said, there can be no difference between a spouse's inheritance of 4 G by will, such as for conjugals. The majority have noticed that the Government signals that in the follow-up to the Shift Law Selection setting, there will be a return to the money limit. One suggests that both marriage and cohabitation are discussed there, as well as different methods of distribution for small arcs. The proposal from the Progress Party has not been corked for extraction or listening. This will mean that all children do not inherit the same according to the laws. It depends on whether inheritance occurs after marriage or cohabitation. In order to remedy this, the Progress Party is true enough to suggest that it should also be reconsidered to amend the laws for spouses, such as of life heirs after the deceased getting equal to inheritance rights as surviving spouses. Lack of consistency and lack of hearing will still be there, even if one suggests changing also the rules for marriage. The changes will be much more significant. There is also no cut-off on the split proposal. It seems a bit panicky and easy when the Progress Party here thinks it's best to conclude with more fairer boundaries and sharing models – and it's completely without consistency and hearings. The second big grab that is made in the archova is the right of sambuars to sit in the unchanged bow. And here, too, the right is tied up to the common child. The right of exchange includes common dwellings, inlets, cars and leisure properties with a common use for the Samaritans. At the same time, all liabilities of Samaritans are inherited. The right to sit in a change when a special coal source is present will become for partners as for spouses, depending on the consent of the special coal-born. The right to sit in substitution also gives the right to transparency in the deceased's economy; otherwise it would have been impossible to say yes or no to change or inheritance. I actually said that I was wrong when I said that there was no money limit, because there is an amount limit of up to 8 G, so I take that back.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e147	Let me also thank the case rapporteur here for a thorough review of the matter. I allow myself to say as Vidar Karlsen would have said: the Progress Party agrees with the need for changes in the Inheritance Act and can thus join much of what the Government proposes. In today's societies, about half of the population live. 25 pst. by Norwegian couples in consensual union. This is a much larger number than was the case in the 1970s, when the inheritance law was introduced. This is why we see the need for changes that take more account of the situation left behind in cases where a partner goes away. The rules that have worked until now have not taken into account cohabitants in such situations. The law of inheritance must to a certain extent follow the development of society. There is therefore a need for some of the changes that are presented here. However, if the proposed rules are introduced, the progress party is concerned about the situation of special coal children. With the government’s proposal, children who have died from past relationships — whether marriage or former cohabitation — will become heirless after one parent if the residence does not have values greater than 4 G. In these cases, the partner will be left with everything. Joint children of the deceased had with the last cohabitants, will continue to be favored in the form of inheritance by long-lived parents. This is a bias that we find hard to be involved in. That is also why we have proposed an alternative design of the new rules, which we believe will ensure a fairer distribution of the inheritance in the smallest dwellings, and which will ensure special coal heritage, even where there is not much for distribution. We realize that this issue is relevant to special coal children where the deceased have entered into a new marriage. The new spouse will also get here after death if the residence does not contain more than 4 G. We agree with the Government that the inheritance should not fall out differently, depending on what form of life the parents have chosen. Therefore, we have asked the Government to look at this issue and assess whether time is ripe to make changes in this area as well. Then I just want to say that I agree with what the rapporteur said. This isn't easy. I also read that from the letter of reply sent by the State Council to the Committee. Nevertheless, it has been the ambition of the Progress Party in a better way to seek to care for special coal children in housing who have a limited – we should call it – economic value. It's been our intention. Then, of course, you can discuss whether we meet too well or too badly. I can see that the rapporteur had views on this. Our intention has at least been to take better care of special coal children than we perceive that the Government's proposals do. Then, of course, I'll take up the suggestions we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e164	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e167	A large proportion of Norway’s population have chosen to live together without marriage. Some of these conditions are short-term relationships, but many are stable matrimonial relationships. In many cases, the cohabitants have children in common. Statistics from the Central Bureau show that the relationship between marriage and marriage is about one in four. They estimate that the total number of cohabitants in 2007 was about 600 000, i.e. 300,000 conspirators. By the turn of the year, I guess it had 17 pst. by the resident children of cohabiting parents. Today, cohabitants have few rights to inheritance when one dies. Sam dwellers today have no inheritance rights if they have not written wills, and they do not have the right to sit in the perfect dwelling. They may create mutual will, but only for the part that does not include an inheritance. The fact that a common economy has been formally and in practice has not mattered. The consequence is that the one who loses his partner, in the worst case, does not receive inheritance at all, nor can he sit with what was formerly the common house of the consensual dwellers. Today’s rules lead in the worst case to a weakened economy and a huge extra burden in what is already a difficult situation – when you lose someone you’re happy with and share your life with. The changes in the inheritance law that we are dealing with today give new and better rights to cohabiters. SV has long been concerned that the law should be adapted to the new family structures. We have made several proposals for new legislation to ensure that cohabitants living in matrimonial relationships are guaranteed good rights. We are very pleased that this government takes the rights of the cohabitants seriously. Earlier in the government period, amendments have also been adopted which mean that cohabitants are treated in the same way as spouses in terms of the document fee for the sale of dwellings to each other and in connection with succession settlements — a change of great economic importance to many. The government's proposals that we are discussing today will give cohabitants the right to inheritance and the opportunity to sit in perfect harmony living under certain conditions. The possibility for cohabitants who have, have, or are waiting for, children to sit in the opposite direction of living will be essential for many to remain able to remain in the same housing. This means that the heir can be postponed at the death of the cohabiter, so that the surviving cohabiter can sit with the assets that have been for common use, such as: housing and car. Cohabitants today have limited the ability to secure each other through wills since their inheritance rights set limits for this. For cohabitants with common children, the new rules will mean that they are entitled to succession under the law. For cohabitants who do not have children but who have been cohabitants for at least the last five years, surviving cohabitants have the right to inheritance if provided for in the will. SV agrees that it is natural to assume the minimum inheritance of spouses, so that a cohabitant is granted the right to an inheritance of up to 4 G, i.e. approximately NOK 280 000. One has more than enough to think about if the cohabiter falls off, if you're not going to have problems with inheritance. Through these changes of law, we ensure that surviving cohabitants can materially sustain almost the same life as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e186	It's a historical joke about this bill, not only because it gives cohabitants rights that the cohabitants haven't had, but also from an international perspective. I believe that the changes now being made to the inheritance law, which Odelstinget is dealing with today, represent a significant strengthening of the position of surviving cohabitants where the couple have a common child. The right to change that is proposed goes far, but, in my opinion, fits far. According to the bill, the remainder can be replaced by the house, the cabin, the occupant and the car – to mention the most important thing. The inheritance does not go as far as I said, but here too I believe that we have found a good balance point at the inheritance of four times the basic amount. If the proposal is adopted, we will first be in the Nordic region to provide such a protection for surviving consensual residents. But not only that – as far as we have managed to clean up, we will be first in Europe as well. Furthermore, we are not familiar with legislation elsewhere in the world that goes further in protecting surviving cohabitants. These changes in laws are sure to be seen and evaluated elsewhere in the world. It might be claimed that we could have done this before, but this case needs maturation, and we're getting more and more consensual residents. This bill therefore involves a long step, and as mentioned, we are out early. I am particularly pleased that I believe that we have found a good balance in this proposal that has now been presented. I am therefore pleased that many parts of the Committee fully follow the proposal. The proposal does not cover all consensual relationships. It is the typical core family partners with common children that are primarily protected by the proposal. In my view, it is those who live together stablely, have common children, and still live together when one falls away, who should be granted inheritance rights in relation to each other. Cohabitants who do not have common children are a less homogeneous group. For these consensual residents, it cannot be assumed that they would normally want inheritance rights in relation to each other. In particular, if one or both have special coal children. In the course of the consultation of the bill, the Ministry of Justice received several enquiries from individuals who were concerned that no rules should be laid down giving the cohabitation right to inheritance at the expense of special coal children. The proposal that cohabitants who do not have a common child but who have lived together for at least five years, to some extent unhindered by the compulsory inheritance, can decide in will, in my view, that the cohabiter shall have the right to inheritance, provides for appropriate flexibility in this area. It is up to a seafarer to decide that the cohabiter shall be given inheritance, but the right to test applies only up to four times the basic amount if you have special coal children. One important element of the bill is that, both in terms of the right to inheritance and the right to remain in a change, it can be stated in the will that the other cohabiter should not have such rights. But the cohabiter must be notified of such a will. The proposal is based on a fundamental freedom of choice for cohabitants. Marriage is not the same, and it shouldn't be the same. For this reason, it is important to allow cohabiters to choose whether or not the rules of the law on inheritance apply to them. This feature of the bill means, in my view, that the peculiarity of coexistence is well respected. Then I notice that the Committee's minority is concerned with the position of special coal children in small dwellings below 4 G, where we for spouses have, and now for cohabiters propose, rules that prioritise surviving partners. I admit that these rules in small homes can make the children heirless if not the surviving one finally makes a distribution to both of them's life heirs. However, there has been a fundamental idea in the Western world that in a modern society there is a need to strengthen the position of the survivors at the expense of children's inheritance. This has the background that it is no longer possible for a surviving spouse or partner to expect — or wish — the children to support him or her. And in order to avoid the need arising, the surviving couple should retain parts of the ‘common funds’ that the couple has saved through their life. In addition, it has been estimated that in dwellings of less than 4 G, resources are so small that there is little sharing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e205	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 146]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e221	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 148]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e237	Earlier this year, in the context of the treatment of the new penal code, the Stortinget adopted a separate provision on the encouragement, recruitment and training of terrorists. However, this provision cannot enter into force until the entry into force of the new penal code, and it is therefore important to introduce a similar provision in today's criminal law so that the prohibition can apply as soon as possible. Why is that important? In recent years, PST has stated on several occasions that active recruitment attempts are ongoing in Norway. The aim is to provide young people with terrorist attacks abroad. According to the Dagbladet, Norwegian citizens – with ethnic Pakistani background – should also have been on training camps with an Islamist organisation directly linked to the terrorist network Al Qaida. These cases show that there is a need for clear legislation to prevent and prevent terrorist attacks and activities. In the Norwegian criminal law tradition, caution has been exercised to criminalise preparatory actions, but the challenges facing Norway too show that this is necessary. In its consultation opinion on this proposal in the 2005 Criminal Code, the PST states the following: ‘It is necessary to look at this in an international perspective. Since other European nations have criminalised this type of act, it means that Norway will also have to follow the other European nations to the extent necessary, in order not to risk being tempted for this type of serious crime.» With a decision on this matter, Norway is now in a position to ratify the European Council Convention on Terrorism on 16 May 2005, and we can therefore do so independently of having to wait for the new penal code to come into force. The proposal gives us the same criminal protection against terrorism that the new penal code provides. Calls, recruitment and training for acts of terrorism will also to a large extent be affected by the current criminal code of 1902. However, the new provisions will now be put together in a paragraph, and they will also be a little wider than today's provisions. There will no longer be any stringent requirements relating to specific acts of terrorism, and participation in calls, recruitment and training is subject to criminal penalties. In addition, the new penalty will explicitly indicate that a message has been made publicly when it is made in a way that makes it suitable for reaching a larger number of persons. This means that a message of terror made over the Internet, radio and television is punishable. I am pleased that the Committee has unanimously joined the proposal. We also support the change in the police law, which will clarify that the prevention and hidden investigation of this criminal offence is the responsibility of the PST. The Progress Party has made its own proposal on the evaluation of the criminal provisions on terrorist activities, in order to determine whether those provisions have worked properly. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party and the SV, have not supported this. Should it be appropriate to evaluate certain legal provisions, these provisions must have worked both for a certain period of time and not least have been applied in sufficient cases. We believe that this is not the case today, but I assume that the Ministry of Justice is constantly following developments and promoting proposals for new provisions or changes to the law if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e257	I must follow the tradition, and thank the rapporteur for a brilliant review of the matter. And once again, there's no disagreement in the committee. Of course, the Progress Party should join in the proposal that is in place to speed up implementation. We find that completely natural. At the same time, we might have hoped that we would get the committee to carry out an evaluation of this. Because it is a fact that some of the legal provisions on terrorism were adopted in the autumn of 2001, if I do not remember completely wrong – although there has been a development there since. And at least I have so far understood the Minister of Justice that it is important that the laws that you have are functional, and that they work according to purpose, to have a law that is not functional, none of us are served. But of course that can be so, and I respect it, that the Government wants more experience, a greater basis, before considering whether the legal provisions are well designed or not. At the same time, it's a little paradox, because the last thing we really want is that these law paragraphs apply. The best thing would be if we didn't use them at all. But okay, I take note that you want a bigger basis of experience first. Then I count my proposal as the one on the table. I have also understood that the Right has intended to support it tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e266	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e269	Christian People's Party supports the setting. My reason for taking the floor is the proposal of the Progress Party, which reads: ‘The Government requests an evaluation of the applicable criminal provisions on terrorist activities during the next majority period with a view to determining whether the provisions have worked properly.’ We are going to vote in favour of this proposal. We do that in the light of the experience we have with how the current provisions have been assessed in courts until now. Quite specifically, I aim here at what the reason of the court was when it was shot at the Jewish synagogue, linked to whether this was terrorist activity or not. The court found that it was not, indeed, because it could then be pointed out that the Jewish community was not a large enough grouping in relation to what the legislator believes is necessary in order to be hit by the current terrorist paragraphs. We'll see if this stays standing. In any case, I ask a big question as to whether the adopted paragraphs related to this function work as intended, and then it's just as good to be led was, as I perceive, that the Progress Party is with its proposal, and get a quick evaluation if the result that has so far come against these paragraphs and events should remain standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e281	The right-hand side also supports this setting. We would also like to inform you that we will support the proposals of the Progress Party when it comes to discussion in Stortinget. It is important that the Storting has a hand on the steering wheel in these kinds of questions. Now the Right trusts the principle and pragmatic attitude of the Council of State on these issues, but it is also important for us to stress that this is a kind of parliamentary principle issue which the Storting should be presented as quickly as possible. So it's not that we don't trust the government and government parties on these issues, but on the basis of what the previous speaker pointed out about legal processes that we're now seeing going on, it's important for us to get this evaluation at an appropriate time. So this is really just a little push to the Council of State and the majority in hopes of doing that kind of evaluation as quickly as possible. Because there's reason to say, and I've said that here before, that in terms of this kind of question, we may have tended to cut and paste a little bit from other countries. Other countries may have been more than we have been led by fear. Fortunately, we haven't done that yet. But at the same time, it's important for us not to think in any future situation that only we adopt some changes to the law, then everything will be fine, and that we lose the fundamental vision that has underpinned the legal paragraphs we have. It is important that we have a basic review of it also in this room, and do not wait until the negative development has possibly caught us, and there is a completely different atmosphere out there that makes us perhaps on a later occasion take premature decisions that make the situation less secure. None of us want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e290	Terrorism against innocent people may be the biggest challenge of our time in response to climate challenges and environmental challenges. India was the other day struck by completely horrific acts of terrorism. There was a bomb triggered in Pakistan today, I understood, and more people died. A month ago, a hotel aired in Pakistan. Bali has experienced it, London has experienced it, Madrid has experienced it – many other cities around the world have experienced it. Democratic and open societies are very vulnerable to these abominable acts. On a larger scale, we have seen that terror has been brought to power in Rwanda, and now in Congo. I was in Bosnia the other day, and when I was standing in Srebrenica, where 7 000 – 8 000 people are buried, and where 4,000 were slaughtered in a short time, I thought, How could that happen? How could it happen that terror got free ropes, and that there came to a level how many people were slaughtered in such a short time? Then I thought: Someone must have started at some point, someone must have said that this should be done, someone must have encouraged someone, and someone must have eventually given training in committing abominable acts against people. That is why I am very pleased that the Government has promoted this bill, which strengthens the focus, and which criminalises both training, encouragement and other tasks in connection with terrorism. We hope that this will be our contribution to protecting Norwegian society, but not least to counter global terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e299	The fight against terrorism has gone along three axes for both the previous government and the current one: first, to get a law covering the types of crimes we are talking about here, terrorist acts, the definition of terrorism. Previous speeches were about war crimes, which are probably also subject to the revision carried out in ours. This is a proposal that helps us get a law that covers and defines terror, but also covers the entire course of action. I think it is important that we get this in place together with the other two issues that are important in the fight against terrorism. One is that sufficient methods are available to detect criminal offences in terms of investigation, but also for prevention purposes, and the latter is the question of resources. And there it is that, in the budget we have now adopted, we are strengthening, among other things. PST with 25 million. kr. There has also been an ongoing resource strengthening of the PST that I think is very important. With this case of law, Norway will have a legislative framework enabling us to ratify the Council of Europe Convention of 16 May 2005 on the Prevention of Terrorism in the near future. I am pleased that the Committee has joined in the proposal that today's criminal law should be given a new provision on the punishment of incitement, recruitment and training for acts of terrorism. It is a strong preventive element in it. The new penal code already has a similar provision, but it will take some time before it can be launched. This bill makes it possible to ratify the Convention independently of the new penal code, and the proposal gives us the same criminal protection against terrorism that will lie in the new criminal law. Calls, recruitment and training for acts of terrorism are to a large extent affected by applicable criminal law, including: because such activity can be seen as a criminal contribution to acts of terrorism. But criminal liability under today's rules does not go as far as what is in the bill. The difference is that, on the one hand, the new rule does not impose the same requirement for association with specific acts of terrorism and, on the other, that participation in the call, recruitment and training is now made punishable. There are some differences in the design of the proposal for the new provision of the penal code and the parallel, already adopted, § 136 of the 2005 Criminal Code. One of the differences is that the proposal states that participation is punishable, while § 136 does not mention participation. The differences in design have largely legal explanations. While the 2005 Criminal Code contains a general provision that participation is punishable when not otherwise specified, according to the law of the day, it follows separately from the individual criminal order for participation is punishable. The proposal does not propose changes to the rules on police methodology and access to coercive measures during the investigation. However, the new criminal code is to be included in the list in the Police Act of the duties of the PST. The proposal implies that the responsibility for calling, recruiting and training for terrorist acts will lie with the PST. So finally, the representative André Oktay Dahl mentioned that some of the legislation could bear the mark of cutting and glue, and he also mentioned something about being driven by fear. I don't want to be so brutal against the last government. I believe that the legislation did not have the mark of cutting and glue, and it did not have the mark of fear at all. What was great about treatment during the previous ageing period, and also now, is that Norway took the time to deal with these rules, both in terms of criminal law and not least in terms of methodology, which was not dealt with immediately after what happened in New York in 2001. You took the time, and you also had the opportunity to listen to both the opposition and the recording from, among other things. The National Attorney. This means that what we have in Norway today, both in terms of method and criminal law, represents the moderate use of criminal law mechanisms. It also shows that this is a crime to be combated by the instruments of criminal law and by the legal certainty attached to it. Having said that, I believe that the challenges that the Progress Party points to in its proposal on the issue of evaluation are primarily on the use of methodology. There's a work going on in the government, as you know, to evaluate the method situation. That's what's important. In my opinion, evaluating the use of specific criminal paragraphs would be a problem for most offenders – whether they are appropriate. In my opinion, there must be a continuous assessment of the appropriateness of the penal code. This applies to all sentencing. It will also apply to the new penal code that is adopted, that it is constantly on guard in view of this. I therefore believe that the Ministry and the Government must constantly assess the need for further changes in the law, whether the law is working well enough. In this way, I can at least promise to propose that the law we are now adopting, we will also follow closely to ensure that it works as we believe it should work. To the extent that there is a need for repair, we should not hesitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e318	It is possible that I expressed myself clumsily. I did not believe that the Norwegian authorities and the Government have handled this poorly. What I've said is that some countries may have let themselves be ruled by fear, and then it's important that we've had a thorough debate in the Norwegian giant so that not the same thing should happen here, or that we should let ourselves tear off the world around us. But at the same time, it is important to stress in relation to the thorough debate you had then, that if something external happens, the debate can quickly become less thorough the next time. That is why I want to know that the legislation we have, like the methods that have been taken up, is to be dealt with properly, even by the fact that the Stortinge has a hand on the steering wheel – that we have important fundamental debates later on, before the evaluation of the methodology is available. So there's no point for us to say that neither the previous government nor the current government have discussed this in principle and really. That's what you've done. But the point is that that consensus can be challenged quickly if you don't have the hand of the Storting on the steering wheel all the time, and provide a continuous assessment of these provisions, which we hope we get used to the least possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e325	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 148]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e333	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e341	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to propose measures to meet the needs of employees for information on their rights and where they can apply when they feel unwarrantedly monitored by the employer.» This proposal will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e478	The Committee shall be consulted first on the positions I and III of the Committee and then alternately between the position II of the Committee and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New Sections 9 to 15 are replaced by the following: New Section 9-15 of the Working Environment Act Transparency of employee e-mail box, etc. The Ministry may prescribe the employer’s right of access to the employee’s e-mail box, the personal area of the enterprise’s computer networks and other electronic communications media or electronic equipment placed at the employee’s disposal.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e505	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e515	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e525	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward, the proposals No. 1 and 2, from Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to review and consider introducing changes in order to give post-dead life heirs equal to the inheritance of the surviving spouse, as stated in the previous paragraph. the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6 of the Inheritance Act.’ This proposal will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget. The President will first vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The new third sentence of the first paragraph of Section 28b of the Inheritance Act is replaced by the following: However, if the inheritance after death is less than 8 times the basic amount of the population's fear, the cohabiter is only entitled to half of the inheritance when there are life heirs, so that the life heirs divide the other half equally."
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e682	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e692	The bill will be sent to Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e737	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e747	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e754	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e814	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e824	The bill will be sent to Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-03-lower.ana.ud160e836	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? – Then has not happened, and the meeting has been cancelled.
