ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e55	From the representatives Heikki Holmås and Hans Olav Syversen there are applications for leave from 15 December to 17 December, both to attend meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Oslo County: Ingunn Gjerstad and Aud Kvalbein
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e80	The representative, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e83	On behalf of the representatives Ulf Leirstein, Vigdis Giltun, Kåre Fostervold, Arne Sortevik and myself, I would like to make a proposal to address the threshold issue in Ringdalsfjorden and Iddefjorden.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e88	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e91	On behalf of the representatives Tord Lien, Ingrid Skårmo, Ivar Kristiansen, Peter Skovholt Gitmark and myself, I present a proposal for a big message on the state of energy of the kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e96	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e114	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e130	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and the Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, a speaking time of up to 5 minutes is proposed for members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e143	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its good work on what has gradually become a rather large budgetary position. We are in the process of laying behind a historic rise, where we have had opportunities to make investments for the future, but we are in danger that the generations of the future will look back on us and wonder why the Government did not take all the opportunities it had. This is kind of a final exam for the Government. But what remains after four years of red-green government and after presenting its fourth budget, is that the university and higher education sectors have had to endure large cuts, and beyond the cuts, the government's contribution has limited itself to remedying the damage caused by the sea. Quality reform is no longer fully funded. We receive reports from teaching establishments around the country that it is cut in study offerings, teaching time, guidance, student admissions, research and employment. The ability to think in the long term is not always the same in terms of policy, but political leadership is about thinking in the future. A recent analysis by the NHO shows that the previous government invested almost 9 out of 10 kroner of the increased economic space in the long-term growth capacity of the Norwegian economy, including higher education and research. This made it possible for the good times of today's government to have a fresh start. But every government grants more in crowns and ears than the previous government did, simply because it's economic growth. The question is how to use the increased space for action, not how many dollars you invest. Today's government will have DKK 185 billion more to distribute in 2009 than the Bondevik II government had in 2005. Nevertheless, the Stoltenberg government has only used 15 pst. of the increased space for action on growth promotion, including research and higher education. The harvest's budgetary process has been a very special and perhaps not so trusting process by the Government. In his financial speech of 7 October, Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen stated that the 2009 budget is – I quote: ‘A strong commitment to research and higher education that will make us better prepared to meet the challenges of the future’. At the same time, it was stated in the budget itself that the allocation will be no less than the corresponding reduction in the 2007 budget. The Minister of Finance referred to a continuation of the 2007 budget as a ‘strong investment’ in the sector and expected applause to restore the money Government has taken. As we were able to study the figures in the budget, it also appeared that the Government had failed to mention the wage and pension bomb in the budget, which means that the sector has to finance more than 400 million. kr above the basic allocation next year. The additional appropriations that the Government entered somewhat half-panic in the budget for 2008 on the day we discussed the budget in the Stortinget can well be seen as nothing more than admitting that the Government's proposals had significant weaknesses. This year, too, the alternative budget of the right includes a significant commitment to research and higher education. Universities and colleges would get $234 million. kr more in basic appropriations, the Research Fund would be increased by NOK 16 billion, and we would have set up a separate scientific equipment fund of DKK 10 billion. It would give an estimated increase of 750 million, respectively. SEK and 470 million. kr in 2010. It's important to see the context of the system. What we do for the six-year-olds is important for the learning outcomes, it's important for the dropout, and it's important for what kind of researchers we get. We see that the measures put in place by the previous government, such as: national tests, emphasis on basic skills, early efforts and stronger requirements, have helped to systematise learning work and improve learning outcomes for students. The measures were implemented for a period of considerable protests from the government parties. Former Council of State Øystein Djupedal gave SV spressactivities in VG 27 May 2007. He admitted that SV had not put enough emphasis on knowledge in the school, and that SV had chosen a mistake by not making a claim. In an interview with the magazine Education in May this year, Djupedal says that SV ‘systematically downgraded knowledge’. It's a very serious diagnosis. It is important to step up school efforts. This is why the Right wants to introduce two extra hours of week at the childhood stage — one in Norwegian and one in mathematics — combined with measures to recruit more teachers and keep teachers longer in school. In April of this year all the parties on the Stortinget signed an agreement on the future church arrangement, a settlement with which the Right is very pleased. But an important element of the agreement is that there should be a democratic reform in Kirka, and it costs money. The Government estimates the cost of the reform to between 80 million. and 110 million. kr. in the implementation phase, but it does not take responsibility in the budget for granting. It's disappointing. Right wants to grant $30 million. This is precisely in order to bring about the reform of democracy on the rails and to ensure that it can be implemented in line with the Storting's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e180	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e183	Today we decide that next year we will start building a new odontology building at the University of Bergen. We also decide to renovate a building for use in nursing training in Oslo. It's very joyful. The red-green majority has a comment that underlines that we believe it is positive that the department proposes that the co-location process at the Högskolan in Bergen should start in 2010. Why could not Right-wing support this obligatory remark from our side instead of adding a start-up grant of 10 million. kr, which is at best a symbol policy, as construction starts require an allocation of 80 million. Do you really want to delete this item? A 10-million-dollar allocation. I see more as a noise allocation, and it does not strengthen the credibility of the Right when it comes to investing in higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e190	I did not know that the government’s parties were operating with ‘noise allocations’, but it is extremely serious on our part. We believe that the government does not take its responsibility by pushing construction start in time and promising on behalf of future expansion what will happen to the co-location process at the University of Bergen. We have had proposals for start-up appropriations for the University of Bergen and the co-location process in all our alternative budgets. It has not been supported by the government parties. It is quite strange that in the past, the government parties have not been able to support a proposal for a start-up grant to the University of Bergen. We believe it has been important to get that construction process going. We're impatient, we don't want to wait until 2010. That is why, in our alternative budget, we have proposed construction start-ups now. I think it is quite strange that the government parties, with the Workers' Party, cannot support our proposal for start-up funding, if it is important to get the construction project started right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e195	When the government presented its budget in October, the Right was quick out with criticism for too little Northern Territory bet. The criticism was that the training of traffic pilots in North Norway was not fully funded. No money has been put into this in the Right Budget. The criticism has been that you have not deposited money with FabLab. The right does not include this in its budget. There has been criticism that one has not given enough money to merge the University of Tromsø and the University. The right does not have money for this in its alternative budget. The government has added 3 million. kr to Kunstakademiet in Nord-Norway. It doesn't get money in the Right Alternative Budget. In this budget, the Government is adding funds to regional research funds of 6 million. kr, which will benefit North Norway extremely well and be very important for regional development. The right-hand side does not support this. Does not the representative Eriksen Soreide agree with me that it is time to be a little realistic and say that the red-green government has a education budget that contains more bet on North Norway than what the Right proposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e202	It was a very interesting line, because there are some northern areas, the northernmost states, that have demanded in all the three–four budgets that this government has provided, and there is a clear strengthening of higher education institutions. What has happened during this reign is what will later be remembered as the rest cutting, where the University of Tromsø, the University of Tromsø, the University of Finnmark and all other training institutions in North Norway have had to endure significant cuts, which have delayed the North Region betting and, not least, ensured that North Region bets in many areas have not started. I may be tempted to send the question back to the representative Jensen: the right is adding 3 million in its alternative budget. kr to Nord-Troms Studiesenter. Why can't the government parties support this? It is a very important measure to ensure better education in a part of the country and in an area where the educational rate is low. That's why it's important to add money to it. Higher education and research have been put to the right in all their budgets, while government parties have voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e209	When the interest-rate compensation scheme was presented by the then Minister of Education Trond Giske in 2001, Inge Wohnung from the Right characterised it as another Ap package he skeptically addressed. When the Prime Minister and the Minister of Knowledge launched a new initiative like this in the autumn, the representative Eriksen Soreide was out quickly and made a big issue that there is no money for the scheme this year. It has worked on me in the media in the last year as if the Right now will take credit for this scheme. What has happened since 2001?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e214	The interest-rate compensation scheme has two sides. It has a side that is positive about investing in building and rehabilitating school buildings, but it also has another side, namely that the municipalities that initially make sure to spend money in their budgets are indirectly punished for it. Oslo Municipality is a very good example of a municipality that has spent between 1 and 1.5 billion dollars on rehabilitation and upgrading the 173 schools in Oslo every year. It's been important. Then we've thought that it's a pity that the government in 2008 took a break in the interest compensation scheme, and we've wanted to use the times we're now going into, which are obviously worse times than what we've been in, to intensify efforts to upgrade public buildings. That's why, in our alternative budget, we have added an additional loan framework of NOK 3 billion, so that municipalities can spend NOK 5 billion free of interest in the next year to clean up and rehabilitate school buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e221	The President assumes that the representative, Ms. Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e225	She will. I will discuss the suggestions on the right at the back of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e230	The representative, Ms Soreide, has then taken up the proposals she referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e235	The red-green majority continues its commitment to knowledge in 2009. This is more important than ever for the knowledge-based nation of Norway in view of the requirements for conversion and innovation that the current financial crisis will bring. Higher education and research have been and are essential for the development of business and society, not least in the development of our welfare services at a time when we also have major demographic challenges with an ever-increasing proportion of older people, a development that is desirable and positive but that presents challenges. Next year, we are campaigning for higher education and research. During this ageing period, we have invested significantly more than what the previous government did, even though it sounds like the opposite side of the opposition. But the numbers are ready. We have strengthened R & D by approximately NOK 2.3 billion over the period, while Bondevik II added NOK 1.7 billion measured in the same value over four years. The capital of the research fund has increased from NOK 36 billion to NOK 72 billion. In addition, a regional research fund of DKK 6 billion will be set up next year. The previous government increased the fund by 26 billion dollars in its government years. It is also surprising that I read the opposition's comments on the basic appropriations for the higher education sector. A very strong word is used about our bet. In total, we are deciding today to allocate NOK 22.3 billion to the sector next year. Of this amount, NOK 13.4 billion is basic allocation. When the criticism of us is as strong as what appears both in the form of a note and in debates, a sharp increase in basic appropriations from the opposition would be expected. But what do we read? Well, progress will add up to 189.5 million. kr, right plus 234 million. kr and left 220 mill. kr. Are there these figures that are the difference between strong investment and no investment in the university and higher education sectors? The use of words by the opposition is reflected in the series of black paints by the Norwegian school and education sectors. This government has a good dialogue with the sector. This applies to all matters, including the challenges the sector may face in terms of wage and pension conditions. This is a situation we're obviously following up on. In the context of the new phase-out of the budget for this year, the sector will receive an increase in its basic allocation of 160 million. kr. In my opinion, this has been well received in the sector. I look forward to the state councils of Aasland and Solhjell providing a message on the future training of teachers. I am convinced that the thorough work done to put in place teacher training to meet today's and future challenges in school will produce results. The broad involvement of both institutions, organisations and resource personnel is absolutely essential if a reform is to be successful. Decisions on the amendment adopted on the basis of bench proposals in the Storting will not give rise to any changes. The sector has been strongly involved in the preparation of the new year’s notification. It's very joyful. The fact that this message comes at the same time as there is a strong commitment to the continuing education of teachers who are already in school will give us a better school than we have today. However, it is important for me to stress that we also have a good school today, and that I have great respect for those teachers who every day do a formidable job. Finally, a trip into the regional research funds. I think they'll be very important in the future. Together with the tools deployed in the Research Council for Regional Innovation, they will have a major impact on what is going to happen across the country at a time when we see the need for transformation and innovation in business is increasing due to the financial crisis we are now in the middle of. Many industrial holdings are located in the districts. We know that very many of these companies have plans for innovation lying unrealized. By getting closer to R & D funds, the regional R & D environments have greater opportunities to follow up on enterprises. Not least the small and medium-sized enterprises that I know well from my region of the country. Regional research funds will also facilitate R & D in the public sector, which needs to be renewed if we are to have the welfare services we want in the future. That's why I'm very pleased that there's going to be another tool for the development of the whole country. This government and the red-green majority in the Biggest shows that we have a plan with what we're doing. The budget we are adopting today shows that we are betting on kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, higher education and research. We are arming the country for the knowledge nation of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e252	It's going to be line change. The first replicator is Åse M. Schmidt, then Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e257	Seeing the whole of research is important, and we're also very concerned about the long-term perspective, especially preparing for different scenarios and thinking ahead. We see that the NODE cluster in Southern Sweden in offshore oil supplies has been very successful with its Foresight programme and has received very strong support from the Research Council and other environment and other actors – they are positive to what the cluster has achieved. That is when I and the Progress Party wonder why the government parties in the budget do not support us in saying that Norway should make much more use of such a forward-looking approach. Is it not just the kind of thinking we should put into practice, and the kind of thinking that politicians have to take responsibility for using to get Norway into the future in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e262	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e265	Excuse me, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e270	No – Gerd Janne Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e273	I don't know if I understand exactly the question of the representative Schmidt. But for me, the red-green majority in the United Kingdom is taking part today in adopting a budget for research and development in Norway that is just forward-looking. For example, the representative Schmidt is a company from South Africa, as I understand it. Then I am very surprised that the Progress Party does not see the need for, for example. to set up regional research and development funds around the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e280	Now it's Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide. The President has repeatedly said her name wrong – that is, changed on the last two names. That's why I sat and concentrated so much on saying it right. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e288	Thank you very much, President. The representative Gerd Janne Kristoffersen was very clear on one thing at the beginning of his speech. She said, "The number's speech is ready." Yes, the numbers are very clear. In a budgetary question The Right fraction sent to the Government, we asked what the research appropriations would have been if we were to achieve the cross-politically agreed objective of 3 pst. GDP is to be used for research purposes by 2010 and, more specifically, for the country to achieve its 1 pst target. of GDP by 2010. Tora Aasland State Council has changed slightly over and over on several occasions to assess whether the target remains firm, but the truth is that the appropriations must have been about DKK6.5 billion higher in 2009. How to achieve the 3 pst goal. of GDP and 1 pst. by the State by 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e300	Firstly, the research objective is set, and there have been major challenges in increasing the country's share to 1 pst. GDP. But when the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide is very concerned that we are going to reach the 1 pst goal from the state, at least I think it's strange that the Right does not use the space of action that the Right thinks they have, to just increase the research appropriations, so that we reach 1 pst. But at the right hand end of next year's budget, we're increasing from 0.75 to 0.77 pst. GDP. Why, then, does the right do not take advantage of the opportunity available in the economic space that the representative underlines that we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e307	Parents are important for children's learning, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that we are now followed in several of the comments that home/school cooperation is important. We also think it is gratifying that the government parties are strengthening the FUG by 1 million. kr. The FUG has been given a larger mandate, more tasks have been assigned to them, and research also sees the importance and importance of this cooperation between home and school in order to get good learning. But FUG has challenges both in terms of pay and lack of pension rights, especially for the manager. So my question to the representative is, shouldn't it, if this is as important to us as we express in the setting, and we're now starting to get more, should it not have been arranged for the FUG leader in such an important organization?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e314	We fully agree with the representative of Dagrun Eriksen that home-school cooperation is very important, and we also show this by strengthening the FUG for the next year in the budget. If that's what the representative Eriksen describes when it comes to the employment relationship of the Executive Director of the FUG, it's clear that there's something we don't refuse to look at in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e321	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e324	With regard to the last exchange of replies on the Parental Committee for Primary School, it has been good that the Government has listened to the Advance Party and increased the funding by 1 million. kr. I recommend the Government to listen more often to the Advance Party. Education and research have been very positive in the period up to 2005. After the Red Government took over, evolution has turned from optimism to pessimism, from action to passivity. In the education and research sector, the last three years have almost faded like a long coffee break. And this budget proposal will extend the coffee break for another year. However, the budget treatment in Stortinget is not entirely without a light point. This time, too, I am very pleased that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left present 22 proposals together. Some might suspect it to be a grueling government statement, but there is apparently no basis for that, at least not yet. However, opposition parties come together on very important issues that will be important to correct education policy if voters were to secure a different majority in 2009. The learning trend for primary students has been downwards for the last three years, with one exception presented this week. We see that schools cut in adapted training because the budgets don't jump. Number of students per year teachers are increasing and will increase further in 2009. Despite the recognition that students need adapted training, this government does not provide local space for action to fulfill beautiful promises from the adventure castle. The Progress Party proposed to earmark 700 million in the financial position. kr for initial training. We have proposed to increase substantially the appropriations for continuing training for teachers, recognising that the teacher is the most important input to ensure quality in school. We have made a number of proposals for better organisation for pupils with disabilities and for students with special needs. We have proposed increased grants for apprenticeships that train students with special needs for organisation, and we have followed up proposals to ensure better management skills both for teachers and school leaders. The party of progress is the only party that has proposed fruit and green to all students in primary school. Government parties oppose proposals for all primary school students to have access to fruit and vegetables, despite the fact that in this budget proposal they also boast of the results after half of the primary school student population has received them. Why do government parties continue this incomprehensible inconsistency in their own policies? Why should half of the students pay for fruit and green in school themselves? - understand what anyone wants. The party of progress ensures equal rights for all. The government parties are continuing a class distinction, literally. Many primary school students experience major difficulties with concentration due to disease and disease-like conditions caused by over-degradation of school buildings. The Progress Party has addressed this on many occasions in the past, because the situation is serious for those affected. Today's control system works unsatisfactory, and the students pay the price. Government parties boast that they reintroduce the interest compensation scheme. I guess that's an example that blends into the coffee break. Instead of following suggestions from the Progress Party and the other opposition to extend the previous interest compensation scheme, the government parties had to take a break to see if they were going to do anything later. In addition to the interest compensation scheme, the Progress Party proposes DKK 3 billion to upgrade municipal buildings, including school buildings. Higher education and research have been voted upon by this government and its parties. The expectations of a rise in the level of appropriations and predictability have been replaced by desperation and cuts, cuts and cuts. Today, it may seem that government parties expect some kind of stormy applause after restoring the level of higher education transfer to the level it was before 2006. They want applause for finding 160 million. kr in the balance to correct some of the consequences of the Government forgetting to take account of increased wage and pension costs in the sector. It seems quite amateurish. The reality is that this government does not have an in-depth desire to invest in research and higher education. The Progress Party proposes NOK 28 billion more to the Research Fund and nearly DKK 1 billion more to higher education than the Government proposes. It's about prioritizing for the future. We must not remain in a situation where Norwegian researchers are excluded from international research competitions or projects because their equipment is outdated. We have economic scope for action to be among the top of the world in research equipment, but government parties find that we are far below the list in relation to comparable countries. The church is subjected to third year in a row to severe cuts. At the same time as transfers to local church activity are cut, nothing is done to improve the working situation of the priests in the Norwegian Church. They live in a everyday life where it is no longer possible to do the job expected of them, because it is simply too few of them. Combined with exceptionally little room for good personnel policy and recruitment, the government's budgetary decisions today continue to make everyday life even more difficult for the priests in the Norwegian Church. The Progress Party has proposed 30 million. to more performers, more liberal employers' policies and increased room for flexibility. With that, the Progress Party is the party that clearly grants the most money to secure the country and the Church a real pastoral service. Finally, I would like to repeat a previous recommendation on proposal No. 42, from the Progress Party, to coordinate research on salmon feed. It is a long-term investment that will be crucial for Norway and Norwegian fish exports. If no one supports us in this proposal today, I reserve the right to say repeatedly: what was the Progress Party saying? – when the need for this coordinated research arises for the rest of the assembly in this house. Finally, I am addressing the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting alone or together with others, and that have not already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e366	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e371	I noticed that the representative Anundsen mentioned that there were 22 proposals from a minority consisting of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. There are almost 80 notes from the same batches. My wonder is about the cold shoulder with which the Progress Party meets by the intermediate parties. Viewed in the light of the extensive cooperation of the Church, Education and Research Committee: How does the representative Anundsen view the possibility of further developing this cooperation, and how does he view differences? Is there more that unites than that separates?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e376	I am a representative of the Progress Party and can say what the Progress Party thinks about this. I can't say we perceive that there are cold shoulders neither from the middle parties nor other parties in terms of cooperation in concrete matters. On the contrary, work has been carried out, among others: in our committee that the opposition cooperates well in many cases. But of course it is a bit from working together in the Committee on concrete matters, and also in budgetary terms to agreeing on concrete issues, to forming a government after an election. What the Progress Party has said, and what we are still saying, is that the Advance Party is open to any alternative after the 2009 elections. We insist that the voters then cast the red-green government out of the government quarter. The progress party is then willing to go in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e383	One of the major challenges in Norwegian school is to smooth out social differences when it comes to learning. That is why the majority have prioritised the measures in the budget. We take a long step in the direction of being able to do something about that job. Then I am surprised that the Progress Party writes that ‘there may be some correlation between poor school performance and the awareness that a person will always have the public to fall back on if one fails in school or working life’. Therefore, the Progress Party wants one to research, so that one can find out to ‘entire system shifts that stimulate individual motivation to optimise the school situation’. Then my question is: what kind of welfare scheme is it that the Progress Party will remove because they think it will promote students' learning? Is it unsatisfied, or is it unemployment benefit?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e398	The answer is none of them. I'm happy with this question, because it focuses on something that's very important, namely the students' motivation to do well in school. This committee was on a committee trip to India, where we met an Indian girl who went to school and told us something about how motivated she was to do well. I think she said something like this: we're going to be much better than we can ever dream of being. Now I'm not saying we're going to have a welfare system similar to what India has. What I'm saying is that there may be other contexts than those purely school-based that affect students' motivation in school. What we're asking for is that a scientist in this whole field to see if there's such a connection or not, because the difference between those who succeed and those who fail is much smaller in Norway is it's in a lot of other countries. If we're going to put in measures to balance social differences, we need to know whether there's such a relationship or not. That is what the proposal is all about. I strongly recommend that for a party like SV, which claims that they are in order to equalise social differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e407	The Advance Party's alternative budget proposes to increase, as far as I am aware, the use of oil money by around NOK 30 billion. Then it's all right – you have more to use, and it's easy to accuse others of using too little. So it's tempting to ask a yes or no question: will similar happen if the Progress Party came into position? Otherwise, I have another question. In spite of the fact that the Advance Party has all this money to spend, you cut in different places – and I would like to mention the Education Directorate in particular. They have been given new tasks in terms of quality in school, all of which are concerned. They shall extend their supervisory activities in schools and shall develop several multi-stage screening tests. They have also been given a new task in cooperation with the FUG, which the maritime representative is well aware of, namely to inform parents so that the transition between primary and secondary schools becomes easier. All of these are important tasks. The progress party will cut. It's going to be interesting to hear the rationale.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e415	To the first question, whether the Progress Party will conduct the same policy in position as in opposition, the answer is unconditionally yes. If the Progress Party obtains a majority in this Chamber alone, the policy of the Progress Party will be exactly the same in position and in opposition. The representative must feel absolutely safe about that. In terms of efficiency in the Directorate, the Progress Party is of the opinion that public directorates also need to go through their own organisation and structure and turn on stones in order to streamline, in line with what is done in all other departments and in all other private enterprises. The Progress Party will set up a school representative who will relieve the Directorate in some areas, and we will also reform the control systems and set up a separate national control body that will take over some of the supervisory tasks of the Directorate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e422	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e425	As a society, we face several major challenges – poverty, redistribution issues and a man-made climate change that we now feel on our bodies. The financial crisis gives us time to reflect and shows that the capitalist system of the world is built on, in many ways has played down. The essence of politics must change and dare to become long-term in its nature. Government SV: A bet on good kindergartens for all children at a reasonable price, better schools and more and better higher education and research. SV's ideological basis lies in the idea of man's fundamental right to control his own life and his own life. The task of the state is to guarantee people the right to live good lives so that people have the freedom to achieve their goals alone and in common with others. It is obvious that a strong and comprehensive welfare state is the only way we can secure such freedom for humans. It is equally obvious that what we are doing today will be measured tomorrow, if we succeed in creating a school and a educational and research community that gives every opportunity – not just the right to succeed. SV's knowledge policy starts in kindergarten. We know kindergarten is important for children's language development and understanding of numbers and space. This is shown later in school. That is why we introduce the statutory right to a nursery place at a reasonable price. The maximum price is frozen. Right and left increase kindergarten prices. When SV talks about early efforts, it's about giving children help when they need it. Building up under the public common school and not facilitating privatisation is one of the important, overall steps taken by SV. There are probably no professions that are as demanding as being a teacher. You must be present for your students at all times. You should be prepared for the hour, you should be up-to-date, and you should be able your profession well. You will see each student, you will create a good learning environment for the individual, make good relations and work together between the students and facilitate a good training environment for an entire class. You have to create knowledgeable children who are safe on themselves and who know what to do more. The teacher is crucial to the quality of kindergarten and school. There is a need for more skilled teachers in the years to come. The teacher must be given increased status and competence. It's us politicians who have to give teachers the tools they need to do their work in the best possible way. Therefore, SV is pleased that the 2009 budget is a budget for teachers. Early efforts are important in getting more teachers between 1 and 4. step in Norwegian and calculation. These are measures that will provide room for about 4 pst. more teachers. There will be an obligation for the school owner to provide enhanced training, and there will be more teachers per year. students in these subjects as before. A permanent system of continuing training for teachers is hereby established. Once the continuing education system is fully phased in, this will allow more than 2,000 teachers to take 30 study credits each year. In addition, efforts are stepped up both in the field of continuing training, reading, arithmetical training, counselling and other training in ICT and in the assessment of pupils. And there is also more money for continuing vocational and vocational education in secondary school. The principal is essential for success in school development. Such new principal training introduced by this government is historic. The training shall be taken over 18 to 24 months and carried out while the principal is at work. The development of competences for kindergarten managers is also being introduced. There will be a big message about a new teacher training programme at the beginning of 2009. In the budget, there are 100 million. NOK to this. There is also money to strengthen the recruitment of the teaching profession, and 180 new places of study are created in teacher training. One of the most serious social problems we have is that so many students drop out of high school. The largest is the drop-out in North Norway and in the professional studies. The country average for vocational education is now 27 pst. by the students in the course of the course, while 8 pst. complete without passing. The Karlsen Committee has submitted a NOU on order from this government. It has given us over 80 proposals that it is important to follow up. There are also 75 million in the budget. kr in order to ensure full financing of specialised schools in the field of health and social sciences. And this is important for all the colleges to be free of charge. But the main problem is that too many students leave primary school without having a good enough sense of numbers and without being able to read, and that students get schooled in high school. We have to do something about primary school, especially the upper secondary school. I am very pleased that the government is now working on a major report on a more practical corrected school. Too many students feel that their school environment is not good enough. In the adopted Education Act § 9a, on the school environment of the students, we have decided that each student has the right to a school environment that promotes learning, well-being and health. It is that too many school buildings are not good enough. The interest compensation scheme for cleaning up school buildings and pooling is incredibly important and gives an extensive hand to municipalities. Too many children feel that they are not included or that they are being bullied at school. Too many children scare themselves every day to go to school. It's serious. It is only systematic and persistent work that helps. That is why I am glad that the budget doubles the money for anti - bullying work in school. Schools need guidance. It is important to include in teacher training how to deal with conflicts in school. There will also be a programme for the inclusive learning and learning environment, which will apply in all schools in the country, where you can work systematically on the problem, so that schools receive follow-up, schooling and help. In order to succeed in school, the participation of pupils and parents in school is crucial. All parents are a resource for their children. The attitude of parents is essential for children’s learning. That is why the red-greens on the Stortinget have also increased the appropriations for FUG this year, as we did last year. We have also increased the funding for the Student Organisation. In order to achieve equal rights to education, you depend on the school being free of charge. In the autumn of 2009, all secondary school students will receive free educational material and a scholarship for equipment depending on the study specialisation chosen. Here the right and left cuts in their budgets. The red-green government is betting on knowledge and research. The government strengthens the freedom of action of universities and higher education institutions by increasing the basic allocation by 300 million. kr. All the money has thus been returned from the cut that was made in 2007. The extraordinary budget also strengthens the institutions by 160 million. kr. What the institutions are doing now is to wear down after the cut that the Right-Registration did when they put in position. The need for new research recruits is determined. The budget includes 200 new scholarships. The university and higher education sectors have for many years been concerned that recruitment positions are underfunded and that post-doctoral positions are lacking. That's why the red-green government has increased the rate per. position with approx. NOK 150 000. Each position is now up to NOK 800000. A post-doctoral position is created for each four scholarship positions. Then we create more coherent career paths for young researchers, making it easier for institutions to hold on and develop their research talents. SV is pleased that the odontology building at the University of Bergen and the pathology building at the University of Oslo are included in this year's budget, and that co-location of the High School in Bergen is started in 2010. In 2009, about 1 000 new student housing will be developed. While the Bondevik II government cut down on the appropriations for student housing every year when they sat with the power, the red-green government has now come up to 1,000 units of furniture per. years. In the budget, study aid is also subject to price adjustment. This did not the bourgeois when they sat with the power. The red-green majority has increased the Research Fund with strength and at a pace that is lacking in Norwegian history. The fund capital has increased by NOK 36 billion in the years we have been in government, to NOK 72 billion. R & D appropriations have increased by approximately DKK 3.17 billion over the period. The budget this year also establishes a regional research fund of DKK 6 billion, which is opposed to the Right and the Advance Party. Such funds are incredibly important to ensure regional development. That's important because you can send the skills around the country. This will be important for regional development in the country, and especially in Northern Norway. To strengthen our research capability, we also need to invest in equipment. An important act is the earmarking of the return of DKK 4 billion of the Research Fund. That'll be almost 200 million. equipment in 2010 and there will be a predictable financing mechanism, which both the research sector and the employment organisations have called for. In addition, 80 million are granted. kr in the year’s budget. We've discovered how more teachers in school are learning better. Each child and student shall be guaranteed good follow-up and early-age learning. Our research and empirical findings and ambitions stand in stark opposition to the right-wing parties, which used the entire previous magnification period to deny the truth about the relationship between resource use and results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e484	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e487	In the road sector, we see that OPS – Public Private Cooperation – gives a positive count for the country and for the drivers. In the university sector, the same type of agreement has been made for Campus Grimstad. Private building – the state takes over. When new university buildings are completed, it is common for the State to contribute a content package to equipment. For Campus Grimstad's part, it's 30 million. kr. But in this case, when the university takes over the building, the government won't trigger these funds, even if it's a state building. Is it ideology that stands in the way, or is it a desire to discriminate between the new universities and the old?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e492	I am pleased that we have a government that rates on construction in the university and higher education sectors, both in terms of building it is to be taught in, and student housing in which the students are to live. There is a long queue of unresolved tasks within the sector. We are well in the process of implementing the buildings on the priority list. The situation will be kept under constant review in view of the sector's needs for new buildings. But this is also a budgetary question, and we will come back to it. But we have, as I said, a priority list of buildings that have been waiting for too long to get the appropriations that are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e499	In connection with the start of the financial crisis in Norway, both Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen and Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg were strongly opposed to private banks that did not lower interest rates immediately when Norges Bank adjusted their interest rate. It was a front page demanding that the interest rates be reduced to the day in private banks, so that the borrowers benefited from the fact that the interest rate had fallen and was on the way down. In the budget setting, we are promoting a proposal to ask the Government to assess whether the government's loan fund can also make a faster interest rate adjustment when the interest rate in Norway's Bank is adjusted downwards. Today it is three to six months' delay. It affects new entrants — young people who are in the start-up phase of an establishment — because they then receive unnecessary high interest rates in the Loan Fund. Why is it that the Government, in a state-run bank in which the state is the sole owner, is unwilling – or rather, refuses – to look at the possibilities to adjust interest rates, while the day-to-day interest reduction is required in private banks?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e506	The loan fund is one of the important tools we have to ensure equal opportunities for all and equal rights to education – no matter how thick your wallet or your parents have. It is true, as Southeide says, that – compared to the other market – it takes three to six months for interest rates to be set down or raised. There's a inertia in the system that leads to when the interest rate goes up, you've earned it in the meantime, and when the interest rate goes down, it'll take a little longer to do it. Removing the interest rate premium is also an admissibility matter. It'll cost about 730 million. kr. This is something that neither the Right nor the other opposition parties have put on the table. But, of course, it's an assessment of what the Government wants to prioritise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e513	‘While we are waiting for messages’ has become a small heading of this government’s governance — perhaps especially in the education sector. We just treated Quality in school, St.meld. No 31 for 2007–08, where the only measure targeted at the secondary school stage was that high school leavers had to tighten up, otherwise it would be seen as absent. I don't think it exactly increases the quality of high school, but it does make us more present in something in which we may not have been able to make good enough quality. Is Lena Jensen satisfied that we still just have to wait for a message, or do you see that here there would really be a need for action?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e522	I am very pleased with the big messages we have addressed. As Eriksen says, we have just addressed the Quality of School paper, where there are an enormous number of good and important measures to enhance the quality of school and to increase early efforts for those students who need it. We'll catch up with the problems when they happen – you don't wait for them. It's not that we've introduced absences. The reason why we ask the students to step up is because we know that the students who are not at school don't learn what they are going to learn. So the students have to be there to follow the teaching. Then they'll get better training, and you can follow them in a better way. It is announced a new big message that will focus on youth. I very much agree with what Eriksen says, that we have great challenges with regard to youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e531	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e535	The Christian People's Party will strengthen children's quality of life and growing-up conditions by investing in family, kindergarten, school and child protection. The family must be strengthened as the primary and primary community of the child. The school, together with the home, will form and educate the students and equip them for life. One of the best investments we can make as a society is to invest in children's knowledge. Norway shall be a leading knowledge nation. Then we have to get out of the rest cut and out of the building stop introduced by the Government over the three years it has run the education policy. We have the prerequisites, but then we have to invest in both school, higher education and research. The government's budget is called a customs budget in the VG. Had it even been so good that it had been out of date in the face of the financial crisis! That may be true, but unfortunately a good part of the decisions taken will be implemented, for example: in the case of the small school step. The government extends the number of hours by two weeks without educational means — in addition to the five hours of week introduced in the autumn of 2008. This is part of the Government's all-day school project. The Christian People's Party is opposed to all-day schooling, but when you also face major challenges related to teaching shortages and empowerment among teachers, this political achievement is going ahead of the best of schools and students. It's not that it's automatic in that several hours in school give you more quality. What we need is more teachers. We know that works, because the key to a better school is the teacher. Without more and more skilled teachers, we can't create a school of knowledge and well-being. That's why the Christian People's Party proposed in its alternative budget to re-prioritize these funds, by 500 million. kr to create a further 1000 new teaching positions. It represents a completely different political course from the one we see from the Stoltenberg II government: we are getting more and more students in the classes and fewer teachers. The Christian People's Party believes that focusing one-sidedly on early efforts does not help. The high school is forgotten. There are too many high school students who do not face challenges for their strengths. In order to become a master's arena for all students, both those who are strong in theory and those who are strong in practical terms, a much more practical way of working is to be offered. That is why we proposed to allocate 70 million in our budget. kr for quality development at the secondary level. There is also a need for more occupational groups to be included at this stage. The Christian People's Party alternative would provide more health sisters, advisers and environmental therapists, who can help to improve everyday life for students and teachers. Society has failed in its mission to provide all opportunities for education and work. The number of students who do not complete secondary school is worrying. For many of our students, the future is linked to social assistance and unemployment. For this reason, it is crucial for me that urgent action be taken to help more people complete their careers. I don't think the solution lies in one central measure, at least not increasing the number of theory hours. What I have seen on many school visits around the country is that there are many good local measures that address this particular problem. That is why the Christian People's Party proposes that an action item of 30 million be created. where support can be sought for good local action to give young people an even greater opportunity to complete their schooling. In addition, we're going to give the public schools $5 million. kr to be able to make an offer to this group of students for the purpose of completing secondary education. They're already doing an important job that we want to back up and further develop. The educational grant in our society has been silent for many years. I believe that now that we are looking at the financial crisis, increasing the apprenticeship allowance will be important for more people to have a job opportunity. In the professional studies we see the greatest decline, and those who don't get apprenticeships have an even greater risk of failure to complete. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that the subsidy that companies receive to take in apprentices must be increased by NOK 2000 per year. the need to reduce the employer’s fee for new apprentices and to increase the grant for apprentices with special needs. Good cooperation between home and school helps to give students the best conditions for a good learning environment. The Christian People's Party proposed to allocate $14 million. kr for a pilot project in each State, where a position to strengthen cooperation between home and school is established at a selected school. The mandate of the FUG has been amended to include home-school cooperation in secondary education. There will be a need for increased competences and administrative positions in the sample. So that's a point I want to mention, which I feel is very problematic. This applies to fees paid to the sample manager. I must say that it is not to our honor. The FUG has taken on a mandate on behalf of 1,2 million parents, and that with a fee to the manager corresponding to half a post, without being able to earn pension entitlements. I don't think that's worth it. This, along with the changed mandate and other things, suggested that we increase the allocation to FUG by 2 million. kr. If we are to get from party speeches to action on home school, this is something that needs to be changed. Unfortunately, during this government, the Higher Education Budget has been marked by the government's rest cuts. This also applies to the budget of the year. In the subsequent budgetary proceedings, I have asked myself many times the question: Why? Why in the world did not the rise times be used to strengthen higher education and research? Why did you choose to cut? The Christian People's Party believes that a knowledge nation must invest in research and higher education through changing economic times. I just think that the answer is in what reality you have. The University and Higher Education Council, the student organisations, the trade union organisation and the opposition here at Stortinget – all agree that the focus on higher education has been absent. But the government has, and we have heard that today, a completely different offensive attitude to this, for in a note it says: ‘The majority will also indicate that the sector has been significantly strengthened in recent years, including in 2009 and now by 160 million at the latest. crowns in connection with the 2008 budget’s recent ageing.’;» I record that the university and higher education sectors do not share this offensive reality perception of the Government. The truth is, with this draft budget, we are back at the 2006 level. Universities and colleges have a real downturn in their budgets. The cost growth due to increased wage and pension expenditure is of 440 million. kr. The Ministry has now stated that this huge increase in wage and pension costs needs to be addressed by the sector itself. They have to cope with this expenditure increase themselves, says the Council of State, within the budgetary framework. What does that mean? This means further cuts — in jobs, in education and in the general provision of students. I don't think we can say that this is a long-term commitment to higher education and research! But the government parties will have a chance. Today, a proposal is being presented asking the Government to come back with a case of compensation for extraordinary salary and pension expenditure at universities and colleges as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2009. By saying yes to this, we will give a clear message and a reassurance into the sector that it will now be settled. It will bring peace after several years of red-green budgetary chaos. Human capital is our most important resource. Societal development and industrial development depend entirely on a high level of academic activity. That is why we want to increase the Research Fund by DKK 25 billion. We also proposed in our budget to give students better conditions, including: through increased appropriations for student kindergartens and mental health services, and support for the freshman year and the first year of study in non-Western countries. Now it's announced by the Government more and more crisis packages. I think this house would be worth looking at the university and higher education sector in that context. We know that in times of recession, the number of jobs that the public can do in this respect will be extremely important. I ask that the Government also include this sector in all the packages that are still being advertised in different forums. I also wish that part of them had been presented here. We've had a huge state-church deal. It serves this committee to the credit that we were able to agree, all seven parties, on a future design for the Norwegian Church. But we see that in order to implement all the elements that we want to be in place through that agreement, we need to put in place a funding mechanism for the Church, which enables the democratic reform to be implemented in the best possible way. I think all parties see themselves worthy of that. We see that the government is warning a coming proposition about this. I'll come back a little later in a three-minute post with a little bit more about the Church, but it's important for me to say that that funding we must all strive to get to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e577	Then the representative will have the opportunity to say a little more about the Church, about church activities in the municipalities. In the notes, the Christian People's Party is rambling up what cuts have been made there since 2005. It is a bit funny that they write in the notes that in 2005 the grant was so much and so much, but what they do not write is that they themselves proposed a cut in the budget for 2006. We argue that it is the municipalities that have the responsibility for spending on the local church, and that is why we are very happy to be able to increase the municipal economy. But the Christian People's Party says that the cut proposed goes beyond democracy in the Church. Why didn't the cuts that the Bondevik II government made in the same post go beyond democracy in the Church?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e584	I think that briefing in the church landscape now is extremely important. What one sees, is that the great commitment to the faith training reform that the Stoltenberg II government has continued to follow up on, and that the Church supports, has unfortunately been financed by the fact that money has been taken from the Church. We believed in the government's argument that the increased municipal economy would give the councils an increased economy. It's a very strong confession that it hasn't happened. On the contrary, many joint councils, especially in small municipalities, report that the municipalities have not set up the state contribution, which has been withdrawn. I would like to know that the government parties had also taken over, especially with regard to the small municipalities, and that KAS – the Church’s employers’ and stakeholders’ organisations – had been supported by the proposal that a grant should now be maintained for the very least common councils. This is about democracy, because they sit almost the people's church in which both the representative and I are very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e596	The best thing, in my opinion, with the budget that we are going to adopt today is that it takes seriously the importance of learning. There is a commitment to school buildings, there is a commitment to the skills of teachers, there is a commitment to social anti-diversity measures such as free school books, fruit and greenery. This year we've got five hours more for the smallest students of mathematics, Norwegian and English, and until next year they're going to get two hours more for physical activity. In the evening post on Monday I read an interesting article that had the title ‘Sunt = Smart’. It says: ‘The characters improve with good and proper diet. And physical activity can be beneficially substituted for theory hours.’ And... ‘An entire hour may be taken from the theoretical knowledge subjects each day and used for physical activity without impairing performance.’ Let me just say that it has a lot of government or a lot of people intend to do. We're actually doing both -- we're strengthening the subject of theory, and we're strengthening physical activity. Then it disappoints me that the Christian People's Party will not be included in this hourly extension. Why will not the Christian People’s Party take seriously that the young are the whole human being who learns best when we make sure that they are the whole human being?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e615	Maybe it's just because we take the title of the Evening Post seriously that we think it's useful to replace the theory hours with physical activity. I think if we're going to be able to get more learning, we're going to have to start setting ourselves up in terms of how we use learning, and in terms of how we use learning for our children. I've been to great schools and I've seen how to correct the theory, where you've got a math exposure both among teachers and among students, and where the level of knowledge has increased from the first step up to the top – very exciting. They didn't need more hours, but they needed more competence for the teachers to be able to put their math theory into practice. It doesn't help to fill in more hours if you don't do anything about how these hours are spent, how to use the energy to learn. We're for physical activity, but I think this can be combined within the school day you have, and I wish that the government parties were perhaps more honest and said that this was part of their whole-day project and not primarily to increase learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e626	The Christian People's Party is a center party that I very often enjoy being with. The bindings are a little different at the moment. The central party is in government, and the Christian People's Party is – what to say – free and frank. Nevertheless, I see that the Christian People's Party is writing with the other opposition parties in a lot of cases in our committee. Now it has been mentioned from the pulpit that there were 22 proposals – I think it was – and 80 comments, where all four parties were together. To put it like this, the Christian People's Party is moving to the right. So I know that the Christian People's Party can say the same thing about me and the Center Party – or maybe the opposite: the Center Party goes to the left. The answer is that we are in an obliging coalition where it is about giving and taking, and I feel that we also get a lot. My question is that it would be interesting to hear the reason that a center party is gradually slipping more and more to the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e637	The question is where to put the center of gravity. And you might as well think of it as the right hand side, the right hand side, the right hand side, the right hand side, the right hand side, the right side, the right side, the right side, the right side, the right side, the right I think that what we're into in this setting, we can definitely stand by it. I think that in the case of some of the proposals that the Christian People's Party has written into here, it might be that even the Center Party would have been with us in some of these -- if the Center Party had been as free and frank as us. If one reads the setting, one sees that the Christian People's Party is sometimes alone with the government parties, and that we don't always choose the same direction, and that's in the center of our heart. We cooperate well on both the right and the left, but there's no doubt that the Christian People's Party's heart is beating really hot at the center, and I think the Center Party's heart is doing that. I think in the long term that we're going to work together to find more weight there than both out on the right and out on the left. Then both would be more happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e648	The President will recall that the Christian People's Party has two proposals together with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e651	...that I would like to record.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e656	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has addressed the proposals to which it refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e660	In the spirit of the center!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e665	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e668	I want to start by saying that this government is delivering. We've heard that there are different opinions about how much, with what quality, etc. Another view might also be to look at the starting point of the government when it joined, and how much it's reasonable to reach from elections to elections. That would probably be a shared opinion too. But there is hardly any disagreement that we want our country to be a strong knowledge nation, and that we must then build on a high-quality education system that allows each one with lifelong learning. For the majority, it is important to emphasise that a targeted policy is now being pursued in order to reduce the disparities in society. The education system is one of the most important venues for such a dithering. The aim must be to provide all children and young people with the best opportunities for education through 13-year-old comprehensive initial training, so that they are prepared for work and further learning. This includes, among other things: the need to enable school owners, municipalities and county councils, financially to meet the expectations of a good school. Good municipal economy is important, and the additional increase in municipal income for 2009 is therefore good at approximately DKK 8.4 billion. Money is rarely a bad tool. During this great period, many messages have been made. I'll just mention two of them: St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, which was discussed in spring 2007, and St.meld. No 31 for 2007-2008, which was treated now in the autumn. In St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007,... and no one was left, the focus was on early intervention. Early efforts were clearly shown to deliver results. The notification was professionally well supported by both international and Norwegian studies. In fact, to date, too many young people have left primary school with insufficient skills and skills. A little simple can one say that with St.meld. No 31 for 2007–08, Quality at school, will be addressed. Increased focus on knowledge and learning outcomes is central to this message. During the last few years, significant changes have been adopted at national level and are underway to enhance the quality of initial training. The condition description as St.meld. No 31 for 2007–08 shows that there is a wide gap between the expectations of government in the school sector and the ability of the sector to meet these expectations. In fact, studies show that the intentions and expectations of the Knowledge Promise are too small to be taken into account locally in the school’s work. This is now being followed up with more supervision of schools. Reading and billing are fundamental to all further learning and to mastering life. This is the background to the launch of enhanced training in Norwegian and mathematics through the increase in teacher density for students from the first to fourth stages from the autumn of 2009. In order to provide all students with quality training, we believe that an important measure is to increase the number of teachers. It will give students who struggle, closer follow-up during the first years of school. Norwegian schoolchildren at kindergarten have few hours at school compared with children in other countries. The number of hours of the first to fourth stages of childhood was increased by five hours from the autumn of 2008. These hours were used to strengthen the basics. Physical activity is also important to increase students’ learning outcomes. The number of hours will be increased by a further two hours from the autumn of 2009 and this will go to physical activity at the childhood stage. That's good. The teacher is the most important input into improving the learning outcomes in school. More and better teachers are needed. From 2009 onwards, a school director’s training will be established for all newly appointed principals and for principals who do not have such training. In addition, a permanent system of continuing training for teachers is established. This is a very good tool, so that teachers are updated in the areas they need. We have to remember that many of the teachers who are still in school have two or three years of education. It also comes with money, 400 million. kr. In order for new teachers to be better equipped to meet professional and pedagogical challenges, 100 million are allocated. kr for the development of teacher training. I believe that the government's policy is well connected – it has both head and tail, if one wants to. In addition, there is a big message about future teacher training right over Christmas. It becomes very important. From the autumn of 2007, a gradual introduction of free secondary education material began. From 2009 onwards, money is granted to ensure that the scheme also applies to all stages. In addition, a scholarship for equipment will be given through the State Loan Fund for Education. It is great that all students from the school year 2009/2010 are provided with free learning material. This is a historical investment and a good investment for Norway as a knowledge nation. We want to give everyone equal opportunities to pursue higher education, regardless of social background. A lot has been said about research in this debate. I will pay close attention to the fact that it is good that the climate agreement is followed up with money for research. 300 million. crowns for research and development in the areas of renewable energy sources, carbon capture and carbon storage are important, necessary and future-oriented. On the other hand, I want to spend some time on regional research funds. The government has proposed a significant contribution to regional research in the budget. This applies, inter alia, to: setting up regional research funds of DKK 6 billion. The regional funds shall enhance research capability through regional research and innovation. The annual return will be approximately 285 million. kr from 2010. The Fund shall be complementary to national R & D funds and shall strengthen regional research and the interaction between industry, universities and regions. This will contribute positively to the realisation of good projects in all parts of the country. The regional research funds shall contribute to the long-term, fundamental build-up of competences in relevant research environments and contribute to the improvement of research quality. The Fund shall meet the R & D needs of the counties by supporting R & D projects proposed by private or public enterprises. They may be located within or outside the geographical impact fields of the Fund. Five to seven regional research funds shall be established. There are many people who think that the number should expand somewhat, so it might be worth thinking about a little bit. Each county shall be included in only one fund. The task of the county councils is to propose groupings of cooperation within the framework of five to seven funds. So this is a new measure and a promise for both research and regional development. The research funds are an important instrument in administrative reform, and the red-green government strengthens research for the whole country. One of my acquaintances from the home university community expressed it this way when he heard about it: ‘The threshold to be taken into account at national level is often high. We have a fragmented structure in colleges. By opening up regional research funds, it will be an important instrument. Several smaller research environments are given the opportunity to grow and can become interesting partners for others.’ So it's a win-win situation. So finally a few words about the Church. In recent years, the reform of religion has been a priority area in the development of the Norwegian Church as an open and inclusive church. It is good that the faith training plan has been followed up over several years, and also this time with a proposal of 25 million. kr in the budget for 2009. There are currently major reforms in the Church. In addition to the democratic reform and the reform of faith training, a comprehensive form of worship must also be implemented. We are hoped that the significant reform period in which Kirka is now in will increase the commitment of all the members – and there are most of us – so that it remains an open and inclusive people's church.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e707	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e710	Since Inger S. Enger has previously been rapporteur, I expect the representative to know the difference in funding and operation. In the comments of the Government Parties, to which the Left and Christian People's Party have also been attached, it is stated that in the context of the administrative reform, the operational and financial responsibility for vocational education will be transferred to the county municipalities in 2010. I.e. operational responsibilities shall be transferred, no reservations shall be made. The technical colleges we know today are run by the county municipalities, and they do not need to be transferred. The question then arises about the operational responsibilities of e.g. The Congregation Bible School, Hald International Centers and other private vocational schools financed by the Faculty Chapter shall be transferred to the County Municipality. Which schools' operational responsibilities are to be transferred?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e717	I don't have a complete overview of the details at the level that we're talking about right now. But, as the representative says, I have been rapporteur and really know the difference between investments and operations. I see that this is more than the government parties that have joined this note. With regard to operational responsibilities, it is to give the county council more tasks that it has done so, in order to link the responsibility a little more closely where the colleges are located. I think that's the reason why it's done this way, and that of course follows money with this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e722	The representative said that the government had both its head and its forehead in its knowledge policy. I think it seems like you've lost both parts in certain cases, except that your forehead may tolerate a lot of pressures. In the merger between Norway’s veterinary college and UMB and VI, 11 million were granted. which goes both to State Building, to UMB and to the Veterinary Institute. The Veterinary College has been forgotten, which is actually the institution that is probably given the toughest task of the merger, because it is those who have to facilitate space plans and everything possible. The majority were busy during the committee procedure, when it started to burn, but managed to collect the collection, so they received NOK 534 000. Does the representative Enger think that this provides a good basis for a good merger process between those institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e731	I think this is a little bit out of the eye that looks, or -- what do we say -- the head that reads. I don't know how to express this. At least I feel that we have both head and tail with us in this process. We have been very concerned that it should happen quickly, so that the environments have known what they should be dealing with. I can't believe that the Veterinary College, which was mentioned, comes out particularly badly in this context. That there have been different views, that someone will move and someone will not, is another matter. That's what our political task is to review. We've done that, and the representative here sees how we've been thinking about this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e736	The Left Party and the Centre have in common that we like small and medium-sized enterprises. In the financial crisis we are now seeing, we are constantly told that these companies too are having trouble benefiting from good public schemes to carry out industrial research and development and to run what is in all our budgets. Will the Central Party now become an active driver in the talks to which the Government has invited the opposition parties, so that, in this crisis package, we can get practical measures to ensure that this research effort does not suffer, but that, on the contrary, it is given extra help, so that it can also work when there are tough times in the country? Can we count on the Center Party to become a proponent in it, in a climate where the Prime Minister has invited for good ideas? There's no censorship of the idea yet, and the coalition force has not yet subsided over the representative Enger's mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e743	This is a nice speech from the Left. I think all the good ideas will be carried on. It is easiest in such times of crisis, as it is actually now, to say: Building, construction. This type of action is easy to come up with. But we have to have more thoughts in our heads at the same time, and I think that research is very important, and that's very forward-looking. As far as it's in my power, I'm going to make sure that the Center Party is active in this area and that there are also funds for research. I don't think that the research funds are a crisis package, but that's thinking in the right direction, so we're also getting along with the whole country in our thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e748	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e752	In the alternative budget that the Left has presented earlier in the financial debate, and which is also here today, our desperate priority is knowledge and research within the same budgetary framework as the government parties had. We have spent over NOK 2 billion on these purposes, of which, apart from SEK 1.6 to 1.7 billion on research alone. Once we've done that, it's because we're completely convinced – regardless of trends and regardless of social traits that shape our lives – that we have to think in the long term. Strengthening research, which builds both generalisation, democracy and civilization, and which also strengthens and builds up under the unborn business life, is essential. It's simply an expression of what's putting something first, and that's giving priority to politics. The left has done that priority, and we recognize it. If our priorities had been implemented in this ageing period, we would very likely have clearly achieved one percent of GDP, among other things. because the government's first rule was to cut NOK 25 billion on the proposals that were made after Bondevik II. The current government has so far made it clear to take back 22 of these 25 billion to the Research Fund over time. They have managed to cover up approx. 90 pst. of what they started cutting at the beginning of the period. When you talk about delivering, you deliver after taking down your ambitions so much that you jump after it. The same is now happening, most recently in letters received yesterday from the Council of Universities and Higher Education, where the following is said in Norwegian on the 2009 budget: «And institutions have had to cut the study offer, reduce group education and leave out of job vacancies due to a lack of funding of 405 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's a landscape that's not about delivering. It's a landscape that's about someone having to jump for. The left is at least concerned with both the proposals we have had in the past in the financial position, proposals we have today, and expectations we have – most recently revised, but preferably before – to ensure that basic funding at universities and colleges is not held in harm, so that job vacancies are filled, so that study offers are defended, so that the quality reform for higher education exists, and so on, for example. doctors who are to be in general practice are kept up to date with their qualitatively excellent guidance and do not experience cutting. This is not going to happen unless you want to prioritise, unless you want to put research — whether it is nutrient-oriented, or it is aimed at general basic research — first. Here, there's a factual difference between the Left and the government parties. In a time of incredible money, we choose to put this first. That means, of course, that it goes beyond other parts of the budget. I'm assuming that I might get some lively lines on it, but that's the way you put something first, it has to go out on something else. And if you don't put the research first, it's because you put something else higher than research. After my education and learning, it's incomprehensible why you can't put something that's so socio-economical and that gives as much as research, first. I don't understand. Nor do I understand it in a country where more than half of the youngest generations have higher education than basic education. I just don't understand it at all! I don't understand it after we took approx. 15 years ago – I think it was – the number of academics passed the number of industrial workers in our country. I don't understand either, because I will dare to claim that just like the father of Einar Gerhardsen, who led a roadwork team in Oslo and was his time proletarians, scholarship holders at universities in our time are proletarians of our time. They are poorly paid, but they truly do a social effort that it really shines off! What our society rewards them with is almost to promote them to bingo millionaires from Verdalen by trying to get out money for research and predictability for their practical conditions. These social idealists, whom we meet over and over again, ask for one thing, as opposed to many others who fight most for pay, they ask for predictable framework conditions for research, they ask for decent equipment, they ask for proper buildings – they simply ask for a social effort. For the left, it's a mystery that we have a red-green government that doesn't realize that building the country is also building research. And then we'll see if the government that's sitting here understands that investing in research is also a good counter-cyclical policy, not just in the sense that it's always going to happen when it's hard times, building the buildings you can build, paving the roads you can pave the ground, laying the rails you can lay, but actually understanding that taking care of the research infrastructure, people and equipment, is actually also building across business cycle and creating optimism. The left has given this a very strong priority, and we are on proposals asking the Government to come back to the revised national budget at the latest and secure our universities and colleges and research environments in general. And of course, part of letting the TaxFUNN scheme be brought back to some of the good arrangements you had before, and not just keeping it alive and keeping it going. Then we've done in our budget a priority that's well-known, but that's all possible reason to underline it. We choose to concentrate resources within the school on recruiting more teachers and providing teachers with more systematic training. And why? Yes, we know, among other things. Through the efforts of the current government, the overwhelming evidence is that there is a very strong link between the general level of competence of teachers at a school and the results at the school. We know that. We even know that there are significant geographical differences in this level of competence in the country. We know that Oslo and Akershus and South Trondelag are high, and we know that counties like Nordland and Telemark are low. So prioritizing further education and putting the money first is perhaps one of the most important things we can do to ensure the quality of school and also contribute to socializing. Similarly, it will probably be equally incomprehensible to this representative after today that government parties cannot vote in favour of systematic recruitment measures for primary and secondary teachers. But it may be related to not having any particular pressure on the recruitment of university graduates, and it may also be related to not being heavy enough to recruit pre-school teachers, at a time when we lack 4,000 of them and have a lower coverage of pre-school teachers in our kindergartens than our neighbouring countries have. It is possible that there is a context in which quality will not be prioritised in this way. I would also like to ask, as a representative of the Left, that we should finally, finally, etc. gets the matter to Stortinget that goes on what kind of money the private schools are going to get. And now we're not talking about the schools that the Left likes, but we're talking about the schools that the Left also likes, and in particular the red-green parties – and in this context together with the Christian People's Party – are deeply in love. These schools must be able to get decent, predictable conditions. They have to know what kind of money they're going to get. We need to be able to review the models we're going to have, so that we get rid of the rounds that we've had over and over again after we changed the old law on high school to become a private school law. It's incomprehensible that we don't get it, but we should at least get it, because there's something special about it that, after making strong expressions of love to Christian schools, Montessori schools and Steiner Schools, you run and rotate so much that you can't figure out the funding system. Let me say it this way: Anyone who thinks of a cooperation with the red-greens, sees how the Christian People's Party here almost doesn't treat everyone right, because the Christian People's Party drew out to ensure something. I have given them credit for that and also disagree with it, but both they and the whole Storting deserve that these schools, which are not at issue, have proper framework conditions. I think there's reason to say it so strongly. So at the end of this article, I'd like to go back to the church settlement not only being happy tributes to each other, to ours, a day, etc. in Stortingen, so I'll quote what the committee is now saying. I think it's important to do that. The Committee refers in the context of the conciliation to the Committee, to the Bakkevig Committee and to the Church Meeting. So the committee says: ‘The Committee is aware that significant resources will be required to implement the proposed democratic reform of the church already at the 2009 Grand elections. The Committee takes the view that the Ministry is in close dialogue with the bodies of the Church and comes back to the Grand Duchy on its own matter on the necessary appropriations, as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the Revised National Budget 2009.» So this is not a minority comment. That is a comment from the Committee as a whole. And it's meant in that way that we who were involved in the conciliation expect this improvement not in quantity, but in quality in the work of democracy in the Church, actually gets an economic basis. I strongly believe that the Council of Churches, which has been honoured in the past for its efforts – in my opinion justified then – for what happened in ours, can also make heavy contributions that allow us to go to Christmas in a calm mind at this point. There are probably other points where we don't want to have a calm mind, but at this point there should be a calm mind in the main hall. Let me then stop where I started. Fighting for generalisation and fighting for knowledge and curiosity has always been a radical reform effort in every country. That's what raised a poor Norway to become a good country. It's also what we need when we see economic crises around us, that we dare to invest in knowledge, that we dare to invest in research. I have a dream, and it's that one day I wake up and see that the red-green government has managed to prioritize research and generalisation resulting from this race. You never have to stop dreaming, because then you have lost the fight to make a better world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e788	The President has reason to believe that Mr Dørum should make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e791	The President is as normal wise and precise, and I agree with this excellent proposal by the President. I'm addressing the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e798	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e803	It becomes more difficult and more difficult to see the difference between the school policy of the Left and the Progressive Party. When one sees that the Progress Party and the Left are united on nearly 80 comments and 22 proposals, it is relatively extensive. What I'm asking is, when the Left says they're not interested in political cooperation and at least not in any government cooperation with the Progress Party, is it just a symbolism, and not a real policy? Now, can we maybe see the contours of an Oslo model? At least it can work like this in our committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e810	We must not confuse the established dialogue between the citizens of Anders Anundsen and me and heavy political realities. This is the case: cooperating on a case-by-case basis is not the same as entering into an obliging cohabitation contract. A union contract between the Left and the Advance Party would have started with marriage mediation from second zero. We don't enter into such cohabitation contracts, out of respect for all the people that we've formed. There is no clear disagreement between the Left and the Advance Party. We are in favour of taking out profits from and earning in private schools, we are opposed to a state-owned price scheme, etc. There's a fundamental difference between how we organize society through municipalities. But the left has the line that we're for what we're for, and we're against what we're against. We are also associated with e.g. the government parties on important points, without me thinking that the representative would think that I had become a newly converted social democrat. This is just the left at the best. We're in the center and we're for what we're for, and against what we're against. And when we get away in good company, whether it's red or blue or how it is, we recognize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e819	The red-green government bets at school. We're betting on the teachers. We spend more hours at school, because we know that the youngest students need more hours to learn what they're going to learn. That's why we've put seven more weeks in school. And the money we spend, we spend on paying for more teachers for this. This cuts the left into. The left is in its school food program, but the budget cuts the fruit of high school. Free secondary education is completed in the Left's budget. And you cut at kindergartens, which will lead to an increase in parental pay. It is the children who pay for the increased research effort left in their budget. It must be clear. Half of the increased research budget of the Left is financed by cutting the seven hours in school. My question to the Left is: why do the kids have to pay for the increased investment in research that the Left wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e828	There are hardly any fundamental differences in the fact that the red-green government priced the nursery rates in the 2007 budget, and that the left does so in the 2009 budget. In that case, we've had the same bad intention, but of course it's not like that. We've spent money where the red-greens don't do what they're supposed to do, to enhance skills, professional development and recruitment in kindergartens. We have spent money to eliminate discrimination between private and public kindergartens. And then it's absolutely right that we've concentrated the money in school to ensure enough teachers and to ensure further education for the teachers, because we've said in this big room and in this period that we always put the most important thing first. They're good teachers, and they're probably teachers. Of course, when it comes to fruit and vegetables, we're not against it. We have put forward a proposal to set the minimum rate of VAT on fruit and vegetables and drive sugar to the top. But when it comes to prioritizing money in school, we give priority to spending the money on enough teachers and good teachers. We know that there's something that gives socially good results and good school results, that's good teachers and enough teachers. We have overwhelming evidence of this, and the Left has different priorities than the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e837	The representative Dørum asked for lively lines. I don't think he's gonna get away with the fact that the Left has an explanation problem. Because if we read the comments and alternative budget of the Left, we see how the representative Dørum and Left finance the measures he referred to in his statement. One of the findings of the Left is to take schoolbooks from high school students. The left says one thing and does something else, and that's so far nothing new. They're against what they're for. They say they're for free learning material, but they remove the scheme in their alternative budget. I trust more what a party does than what they say. Does this mean that the Left wants to take the books back from the students, as they were in 2001, if they were to regain government power?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e846	In terms of teaching materials, we've been in for this period, because we can't guarantee a good order of a school box grant for every student. We're going to need-tested scholarships, so that those who need them for economic reasons get them, and we've always been against the lending system that we now have. We think it's a bad arrangement. It means everyone who has a relationship with it, including the student organisation. If I were to stick to the representative Gorm Kjernli's rhetoric, I guess I'm going to say that we wouldn't be on the red-green race, where you don't have positions at universities and colleges. We do not want to participate in the red-green race, where we risk taking what we have written in this setting, cutting educational provision, quality of education provision and ensuring that we reverse important parts of the quality reform in higher education. We just don't want to be involved. Since politics is about putting the most important thing first, we believe that defending quality reform, investing in research, getting more teachers and having a needs-tested system does not make Norway worse, but it makes research better, and it makes the school better through good teachers. It's simply a choice of priorities. There we disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e855	The cord shift has therefore been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e859	If we look forward some decades in time, in my view, the greatest challenges facing us as a national and international society is to solve the global environmental and poverty problems that are the very basis for what our world is going to look like. It's reducing the social differences, which are too big in our country as well, and getting a proper well-being lift. We have major welfare challenges, not least in the care of the elderly in the decades to come. And it's going to continue with a transition to a knowledge-based business, which we know will come to an increasing degree, and where we have to lead were and take the grips that are necessary. What we do today in that area is decisive for that. Motivation, curiosity, learning, security and equal opportunities for everyone in school today may be the most important thing we do to solve the challenges that lie some decades ahead. This is what the Government's knowledge budget is all about, and that is why the focus in this area is so strong from early childhood to continuing education and research and higher education. Let me draw out the three central school concepts in this budget, which continues to be the focus we have had. First of all, early effort. The American Nobel Prize winner in Economics James Heckman has documented how investing in early childhood and early school age is the very best investment you can make for learning, but also for cushioning social differences. He says correctly that this type of investment can break the poverty trap and in a completely different way provide the basis for knowledge development. That's why we have $1 billion for several teachers in reading and accounting, in Norwegian and mathematics, from first to fourth grade. That is why we have a strong reading and calculation effort on continuing training next year, and further development of monitoring tools. It is also interesting to see that the recently published TIMSS study on students' results in mathematics and natural sciences shows a progress for Norwegian students at the fourth stage and a more broken picture at the eighth stage. Or to put it another way, the greater part of the time the students have gone to school with the red-green government, its better results. It is also interesting to see from that study that we find a very clear rise in the number of teachers who have advanced and advanced skills in the field, and we know that the same thing happens in other fields. We've had an extensive investment in the last few years. Now we move on to a permanent lift, and for the first time a permanent system of further education in the Norwegian school. That's absolutely necessary. When it's fully up and running, many teachers will be able to go out every year. The big challenge won't be the economy, it'll be recruitment and getting enough temporary workers. That is why we also have a comprehensive recruitment effort, including: Depreciation of student loans for those who want to become teachers in language and real life, where we see that learning shortages can become most acute in the years ahead. We also introduce the provision of a teacher education, a schoolteacher education, for everyone from next year, and we make significant contributions to a new teacher education to be provided in a short time. So we also know that knowledge and well-being are not two contradictions, but two things that are related. And not least we're going to create social smoothing in the school, the school has to be a place that creates both security and belonging, and a place for more learning. Therefore, the effort to clean up school buildings is important. The ball shall signal to the students that knowledge and schooling are important. Then we must be busy cleaning up Norwegian school buildings. We also focus on physical activity, because we know that there is a strong connection between physical activity and outcomes in the school, and because we have significant public health challenges in the decades to come. Even if one cannot get the impression from the debate, it is interesting to see that the main picture is that almost all of the major proposals from the Government are fully connected from the opposition: post-secondary and further education, new schoolleader education, DKK 1 billion to several teachers from the first to the fourth, the refurbishment of school buildings. There is broad agreement in the opposition that the Government's proposals in the most important fields are good. Where there is disunity, it goes a little in every direction – one is for and against hours, for and against fruit and green, for and against free textbooks. But I still think we can sum up that there is a good budget, which therefore also has wide support in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e876	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e879	After all, the Party of Advancement and the Government agree that nutrition at school is important and that nutrition and learning are interrelated. For this reason, the Progress Party has proposed that the State should complete the funding of fruit and vegetables for all primary school students. That's what the government is against. The government has not made any suggestions about it. They've previously legalized a strange class distinction, where half of the primary school students will get fruit and green, while the other half of the students won't get it. In recognition of the effect that the Council of State itself has had on the proposition we are dealing with today, which shows that nutrition and learning are interrelated, how can the Council of State defend that half of the students then either have to pay for fruit and green themselves or not get an offer to do so? The government is continuing a class distinction here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e886	No, it's an example that we have to step by step, and we've taken the first step, simply fruit and green at the youth stage. We haven't just taken the next step, simply fruit and green for the students at the nursery. It's easy to argue that it was right to take the first step, the youth, first. We know, in fact, that the challenges of dieting are greatest there, and that the number of elephants who don't have a diet at school that's good and that don't have food packages is larger there. I fully agree with what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, and which the Progress Party supports, that we should introduce a fruit and vegetable regime for all the elephants, and then we have to take one step at a time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e893	I have to say that I very much agree with the Minister of Knowledge that physical activity in school is important, I think it's very important for learning. But SV is at home when they create the expectations they make of this system. 48 million. kr does not correspond to the quality desired for such a scheme. With the opening of the Council of State's intervention on what challenges we face in a knowledge society, where he started with health, I think it's right to focus on the BKA system. We are now at the start of a financial crisis. BKA is a business-accommodated scheme. It has significant increases in the applicant mass, and the candidate mass is about four times as large as the government has granted money. Why does the Minister of Knowledge not follow up his message and grant a lot more money to that scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e900	Let me first just briefly comment on physical activity. There's no doubt that if we're going to achieve the goal of physical activity on a daily basis, we're going to have to do it through a mix of traditional body training, which is part of the curriculum's hours, and other time for physical activity. From research we know that the school itself says that time to physical activity is the biggest obstacle to doing better. That's why we've put it in, and we've at the same time started a quality lease by Marit Breivik to develop the quality. So I agree with the representative that now that we are gradually entering into a situation of higher unemployment, at least predictions say it, and significant challenges, the build-up of skills and knowledge is absolutely central to doing something about it, in higher learning institutions, in higher education schools, but not least in businesses. Very often, business-related measures will be highly successful. That's why it's going to be among the things we're going to consider in a crisis package against the financial crisis and in the wider budget, because it's very reasonable to look at, among other things. the basic competence of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e907	One of the measures submitted to the Council of State to reduce the drop-out rate in secondary school is to give apprentices in the risk zone one year more theory. As the previous replicator pointed out, we are now seeing the contours of a financial crisis that will be challenging for working life, and we also know that apprentices can be harmed, especially if the economy around taking in apprentices is not satisfactory. The Christian People's Party has proposed to lower the employer's fee, increase the apprentice's allowance plus to increase the grant for apprentices with special needs. Is this action that the State Council will work to get into the crisis package from the Government, the one announced in January/February, so that apprentices, who are the most vulnerable, do not suffer extra harm from this financial crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e914	I will consider all kinds of actions in the future aimed at keeping up the high number of apprentices that we have been able to establish over the last few years. We've had a huge rise. This has been extremely important, for we know, for example. that the non-response is much smaller among apprentices than others. It is also extremely important for the quality of skilled workers coming out of work. We should be concerned now. I have therefore also had dialogue with the NHO about what is important, namely that business does not allow apprentices to become a balancing post when they see that there are more times to come. It is very important for business to think about the long-term and to keep up the effort to develop labour. There may be a shortage of skilled labour in a few years' time. We also need to look at public action and assess a wide range of measures to continue the efforts of many apprentices and the quality of apprenticeships.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e921	In the great time when there was a dispute about private schools and hospitals, there was one thing that was not at issue in this room. There was no dispute that schools that existed from a religious, religious, foundation, Steiner pedagogy or Montessori pedagogy, insofar as the schools that we call 6A, i.e. those established through history on a socially sound basis, were not to have a place in the system in which the whole Storting agreed. It was part of this that when the fight was over, you should come back with a predictable and good, transparent grant scheme for these private schools, and you should do that after looking at all the economic models you had at your disposal. It has been a long time since this was adopted in a major context, in the sense that what was to come quickly has not come quickly. So my question to the Council of State is, how quickly can we now count on getting such a case to the Stortinget, to which the whole Stortinget agreed, and who are involved in ensuring safe conditions for these schools, religious schools, Steinerskoller and Montessori schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e928	What is really sad when it comes to the situation of private schools in this period is that the Left chose to stand outside of the reconciliation of the government party with the Christian People's Party with the Right and the Advance Party, a settlement that has guaranteed a very good and prudent framework for a group of private spheres as an alternative on a religious or pedagogical basis. It has created a certainty that they will be able to continue lastingly, and it has created a completely different tranquillity around that question than it has been in the past. That's why I think it's very regrettable. Then we have a funding that allows us to hold many good private schools in Norway, and that's also mentioned in the budget. Of course, from the Government's side, we will also continue to look at the needs for it, along with the parties and actors who are concerned with ensuring good funding. We're still going to have an eye on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e935	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e939	Although today we are going to deal with a budget for the next year, it is important that we perhaps just this year have abilities to look over our shoulders, because a lot has happened in the year that has passed that is significant for the next year's budget, not least within the church budget. Everyone knows it's about us doing the historic thing in April this year: agreeing on how the relationship between the state and the Norwegian Church would develop. The constitutional changes we agreed on, which will apply from 2013, have an impact on the budget for next year. The agreement of April this year provided some premises for the financing of the Norwegian Church. This implies a continuation of the current financial instrument for the Church, with public funding from the municipal budgets and the state budget. In general, the municipality accounts for two thirds of the funding and the state one third. This may not say that much, but in dollars it represents for the state approx. 1.4 billion in 2009. To put it in perspective, the country's share in 2006 was DKK 1.2 billion. The transfers from municipalities are thus the main source of funding for the Joint Councils. Overall, compared with 2006, there has been a significant growth in income. This is also clear from the proposition. This has a clear background in the fact that there has been a strengthening of the municipal economy in recent years. Even though I am satisfied with the church budget, which is being treated today because it contains additions to 7.5 annual works to the Council of Churches, the Council of Bishops and the reform of democracy, 2.4 million. kr in addition to the performance and 800 million. NOK 5 million to the church interest compensation scheme. NOK to strengthen church and culture, SEK 2 million. kr for the operation of the register of members and 0,4 mill. kr extra to the mariner's church, to mention something, I still see some challenges. One challenge will be to understand why around the world the Progress Party does not believe that the reform of faith training is an important prerequisite for maintaining a broad and committed people's church. But the church is comforted by the fact that all other parties believe this is important, and of course I am pleased that the faith training reform is supported by another 25 million. kr. In total, it's 150 million. kr – according to your plan. Another challenge is the implementation of democratic reform. It will require a lot both in terms of planning and implementation. The matter is also particularly important because we in the Committee are going to focus on this in particular. This reform is an important foundation of the church settlement, and I do not hide that this is the committee dedicated to being a success. In addition, I see that there are challenges to recruiting a clergyman. Here, it is important to rely on the work of the Church Research Foundation, for they will examine the factors affecting the recruitment of the service. Systematised knowledge in this area will provide the basis for targeting actions in the future. It's a huge flora of offerings and opportunities for both education and education. We're looking at that in the big area we're dealing with today, from kindergarten to research institutions. It is important in a knowledge society that knowledge is made available to the greatest possible extent. A flower in this flora of offers are the study associations. The study federations are an important complement to the public education system. I am pleased that this government prioritises grants to the study associations after the Bondevik II Government's cut-off was over 50 million. SEK of a total budget of 150 million. kr. I see that the Right and Advance Party are proposing similar cuts on next year's budget. This is particularly incomprehensible in a situation where society will need a great deal of competence from study associates and not least their ability to provide training quickly, further training, etc. Unlike the two right parties, we're going to play with the student associations. Not least in these times of financial crisis, they will be able to play an extra important role. I am pleased with the formidable job the study associations are doing, and what kind of significance this has in terms of the goal of lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e962	The government's total lack of investment in so-called tertiary education is directly frightening if we look at it in the light of the need of the nation of Norway for knowledge in the years to come. Universities and higher education institutions have been treated in a vote. At first they were wearing a rest section, which is now almost followed by two new rest sections. At the top of it now also the technical schools are about to be subjected to a direct error cutting. As the case rapporteur for vocational education, I have a strong need to comment on this. The Berg Committee outlined in 2000 the problems of vocational education, which then fell between two chairs. The Fagskolegesetz became a reality. A unanimous increase gradually led to the state funding of the technical and maritime vocational schools, while the operational responsibility remained with the county municipalities. In this way, vocational schools were treated more equally to colleges and universities, which are also based on higher education. Since 2004, a unanimous increase has asked for funding from the other approved vocational schools, but the government has not delivered it. As a result of the government's attack on the boarding schools, some 6A schools chose to be recognized as colleges. There are today more than 1 100 approved vocational education courses, most of them run by private people. The vocational schools offer an offer of education leading to a competence that is important to society and is sought by the labour market. This applies, for example: vocational education in the field of health and social sciences, master education and ICT. Based on an idea of equality and justice, there is no factual reason why these courses should not have the same public funding as the technical and maritime vocational schools. This is also underlined by the Karlsen Committee, which recently provided an inquiry, Professional Training for the future. In fact, the Government has offered an ad hoc solution in the health and social field, which allows municipalities to purchase vocational education, which at best covers only 25 pst. of the need. The Karlsen committee's investigation is now at the hearing, and I find it alarming that the government parties, with the Christian People's Party and the Left on their backs, fundamentally change the requirements of the vocational schools while this matter is at the hearing. Both the privately run and the state-run vocational schools oppose the return of the financial responsibility to the county. Only these political parties believe that this is a sensible approach. The background is, of course, that they want to maintain three levels of government in Norway. I suspect that the most important thing is to guarantee the taboo rights of all state politicians from these parties. Many have been released in full-time jobs, which is why some people need to get them to do some work. There can also be help for self-help for some big politicians, because then there will be less fight for the places of the Storting. At least there is no education policy or equivalent treatment of tertiary education that is at stake. The importance of regional development is used as an argument for the transfer of responsibility. It is called the region’s need for competence to govern the development of vocational schools. With respect to reporting, this is getting too fast. We have a national and an international labour market. Is it the individual municipality that is to assess the need for competence in the labour market? Is there really anyone who thinks that we with 19 county municipalities as a self-governing level will be set up to offer vocational schools specialising in those subjects that cannot find their place in higher education? Is there anyone who believes that the individual county looks financially capable of establishing or financing an offer of specialisation for all those who have taken a trade or bachelor's certificate? I know how politicians in county councils looked at the college before the state took over the funding. Vocational education is not rights-based or compulsory. It is not a statutory task to pursue post-secondary education, so the post-secondary schools become a balancing post. The cut and closure of post-school offers was the result. What the majority is now in favour of is bringing us back to that situation again. At the same time, we see that engineering training documents an implementation rate of 44 pst. Many of those who fall from the school are likely to be involved. Is there anyone who thinks the county can see the socio-economic aspect here? Is there really anyone who thinks that the county council can ensure skilled workers smooth transitions to higher education without having to go unnecessary detours or go blind? What about the importance of internationalisation in vocational training and vocational schools? We are waiting for an internationalisation message on higher education, but what about that aspect of vocational training? Is there anyone who thinks that the 19 county councils are going to operate separately with internationalisation? This is a sad day for the vocational schools, and the rescue must be that the Progress Party and the Right must have a majority in 2009 so that we can reverse the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e985	The Norwegian Church plays an important role for a very large number of Norwegians. The number of members in the Church is high and stable, 82 pst. by the end of 2007 the population was registered as members of the Norwegian Church. The number of confirmations that choose church confirmation is increasing, 73 pst. of all born in 2007 were baptized in the Norwegian Church, and about 93 pst. of all the dead got a church tomb. That's why I'm glad that the entire committee is expressing a goal of preserving the Norwegian Church as a broad and inclusive people's church. The consensus is what made it possible for all the political parties on the Stortinget in ours to reach a common agreement on the future relationship between state and church. It belongs to the units of rare people that all the parties on Stortinget agree on such a comprehensive and fundamental matter, but in this case it was just possible to do so. The changes in the state church system point to looser ties between state and church, but at the same time aim to continue and strengthen the Church of Norway as a people's church – looser ties between state and church and stronger ties between people and church are a proper motto. An important prerequisite for the agreement is the implementation of a democratic reform in the Church, which ensures church bodies stronger democratic legitimacy and anchoring with church members. The Bakkevig Committee made some suggestions on how democracy reform should be organised in the ‘Strengthened democracy in the Norwegian Church’. The attitude has now been at a wide consultation in the Church. The church meeting discussed the matter at the beginning of November. The 2009 draft budget sets out a commitment for the Council of Churches and the Councils of Bishops to prepare the reform for the first time. When the budget was drawn up, the content of the reform was not clear. It was therefore completely impossible to make a cost picture of this reform at that time. We will come back to that in depth in the odelstningsproposition that comes at the beginning of next year. It would also be right for us to describe the costs and coverage of this project – that the reform is well funded. If the Norwegian Church is to develop as a church of the people, it depends on new generations also finding their place and membership in the churches. The training reform helps us to maintain a broad and committed people's church. The Church budget for 2009 represents a new 25 million. for the continuation of the reform. In the sixth year of the reform, the total funding for religious training in the Norwegian Church will have risen to 150 million. in 2009, which is fully in line with the scheme chosen for the reform. So over this period of government, the investment in the reform of faith has increased by 100 million. kr. It's probably one of the biggest church reforms ever. Over the trial period, we have gained many important experiences. The reform has been well received throughout the communities. The main challenge will now be to bring together all congregations, so that all children and young people in the Church receive a good offer of religious training. For many people, the Church itself is the most important face outside. It's also part of our common cultural heritage. We have a long and good tradition in Norway for communities to stand up for their churches, but sometimes the municipalities need help. In the 2009 budget, we therefore propose to increase the investment framework under the interest compensation scheme for church buildings by a total of 800 million. kr. This means that we have spent SEK 2.1 billion since 2005, which means that many of our most conservation churches can get a long-term boost. As Minister of Culture and the Church, I am concerned about the Church's role as a cultural bearer. I'm glad that we in the 2009 cultural budget are doing something completely new – we're giving $5 million. kr to church culture. It will bring good cultural experiences all over the country. However, it is important that this money does not lead to the creation of new bureaucracy, new support systems and new cultural subsidy schemes. The Church should have the opportunity to learn to use the same cultural systems as the rest of cultural life uses. We have increased the cultural budget by nearly 2 billion kroner since the elections – only the real growth in 2009 is twice the growth over the entire four-year period of Bondevik. It means that this money must also benefit church culture. That's going to be $5 million. to strengthen the competence of the Church as to how cultural life and the Church can play on layers, how church cultural activities can be developed and how church buildings can be used for cultural activities, is a proper strategy for raising church culture. It's a good church budget, and I'm glad it's being adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1004	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1007	In the excellent position we are discussing today, the Committee has gathered on a small topic related to the reform of democracy, which the Council of State has also taken into account in its contribution. I want to quote a sentence from there: ‘The Committee is aware that significant resources will be required to implement the proposed democratic reform of the church already at the time of the 2009 Grand elections.’ The Council of State now said that the reason why there was no funding in the budget is that the budget was finished before the agreement was concluded. But it's that way that it's possible to make supplementary propositions that could solve this early. The reason why I'm taking it up is that it's important to create good and predictable framework conditions for those working on the reform of democracy in the Church, so that they get an early knowledge of the framework they're going to deal with, and that there's no stumbling blocks on the rise. How will the Council of State ensure that those who are currently working on the reform of democracy in the Church know what framework they have to deal with, and what resources come from the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1019	I think we have a common interest in the success of this democratic reform. We've already added 5 million. kr in the budget for strengthening the preparation of the Council of Churches and Councils of Bishops with around seven to eight annual works, which may start from 1 January onwards. Hopefully we will come as soon as possible in the new year with both legislative changes and the mention of the economy that is going to take place to implement the democratic reform. The different levels of the Church, which will be implemented in cooperation with municipalities and local authorities, will then facilitate the implementation of the democratic reform and elections in September in a very good way. The representative is well aware that a successful democracy reform was the key to the whole deal, perhaps especially for my party. It shouldn't be on our will to do this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1026	In reply to a question related to the budgetary procedure, the Ministry of the Sea states that the estimated costs of democratic reform are between 80 million. NOK 110 million and SEK 110 million. kr. The 2009 budget includes, as the Council of State said, 5 million. kr, i.e. 7.5 years. The Church Council has been very concerned about the special training phase that is now under way. In the case of electoral officials and some other personnel, it is important to get this started quickly. The Council of State announces that there will be a proposal with legislative changes and a proposal for a new year. This will also take time to examine within the Committee. The question is why it is not possible for the Government to add the $3 million. kr for training actions requested by the Council of Churches and why no more of the 80-110 million have been committed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking you very much for your excellent report. We have a common responsibility for that, and I think we all have an interest in that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1035	Firstly, it is important to say that the estimate is between 80 and 110 million. kr to which the representative referred is based on the estimates of the Bakkevig Committee and not of the Ministry. Now we go through this and we're going to have a very thorough and good description of it when we get to New Year's. We believe that the need that the Church already has to start building skills and information is covered by the seven-eight year works that are already in the budget. We have good dialogue with the Council of Churches on the implementation of the democratic reform. I am absolutely sure that we will get the information, training and implementation required by democratic reform in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1044	I am pleased with the signals given by the Council of State for the follow-up to democratic reform. I think we have a common interest in getting it into port as well as possible. Another reform that has been implemented, and which the Council of State was involved in its intervention, is the reform of faith training. At the Church meeting last year, the Council of State signaled that it must now be made available to all congregations. There was a great deal of enthusiasm at the Church Meeting. It also appeared that the Council of State was costing itself at the National Religious Training Conference, where he was presented with many of the projects being launched in connection with this reform. Night to the first Sunday of Advent there were several thousand eleven-year-olds who spent the night in the churches as a result of this, in the Light Wake-up project, so here it bubbles everywhere. Therefore, it was probably a little disappointing that there was no delay in the pace of investment and made the reform nationwide. When does the Council of State see that this religious training reform can be made available to all?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1051	There was a run for how this reform was to be expanded. It would reach 250 million. kr in 10 years. It suggests a steady escalation of 25 million. kr per year. The representative's lot shall be honoured for taking the initiative to do so in the Stortinget. But often it is that the largest bill is left to others, more or less on a voluntary basis — as at the 2005 elections. At least we've now provided 100 million. NOK 150 million. kr with which the training reform has so far been stepped up. I believe that we have reached a threshold where we have to move from the experimental phase in individual communities and single bishopships to reach all of this. Prevalence to all congregations should enter into 2009. It will also be a challenge to make this become an ordinary business in the Church, not just a project, but one that is fully integrated into the Church's usual activity. This must be the ambition of the reform of faith training.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1058	It's possible to look at the state/church agreement in relation to some important pillars. One is the reform of faith training, which has been commented on. I won't go into it. The second is the democratic reform that lies in the conciliation, where I choose to take the Council of State on the floor, namely that he has the active interest that he said, in order to achieve it. But when we from the opposition click on this, it's because we want this to succeed, just like the Council of State. The third point for us to have the common people's church is that we have enough priests, and that those who are trained to be priests, just start out in the profession. Without it, the people's church that lies as a common ideal in the conciliation could also be undermined by those of us who want a total distinction between church and state, and those who won't go that far. My question to the Council of State is, what does he now intend to do to ensure a better recruitment of priests? The Council of State knows that there are different budgetary options, but I'm worried about that and I choose to ask the question in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1068	The reality in Norway is that we have enough victories. The problem — or the nice thing — is that the clergy are so attractive as the workforce that there are many other people than the Church who use them — everything from private business to educational purposes and many other things. With the pressure on the labour market now, how many industries and businesses have lacked labour, priests have also been lured from church work to other businesses. Now we are probably seeing a completely different situation on the labour market in the future. It is worrying in many ways, but precisely in terms of access to the clergy, perhaps especially to communities in the districts, it will probably lead to a somewhat improved situation. At least we're going to make sure to facilitate such an attractive achievement, I think, that it'll be interesting for people with clergy education to take up work in the Norwegian Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1075	Seafarer’s Church is increasingly important for preparedness and health visits and social matters abroad, but the gap between the actual number of jobs they have and what they receive in government support is increasing, despite the fact that they are getting more and more jobs. The Seaman's Church has applied for five years' work, but it's being eaten off by 0.72. Now the Church's men and women are kind of pious people. They are not on the barricades, such as elevators and air traffic controllers and policemen, but it does not detract from the minister of the Church's responsibility to provide a framework for recruiting and retaining staff. What is due to the government's lack of recognition and support for the work done by the Seaman's Church?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1080	I don't share that reality description. On the contrary, the Sjömann Church – if I am not mistaken – has had a real growth in every church budget that we have submitted. It has actually been one of the areas in which the Church has had a strengthening within the economic framework. I myself have spent time visiting the Seaman's Church several places. When I'm traveling, I try to set aside time to take a tour of the Seaman's Church, where you do a formidable job. A different reality has been converted — Nordics abroad belong to occupations and groups other than the traditional seafarer, although the seafarer is still there. In the 2009 budget, too, we are strengthening the budget for the Sjömann Church. So I believe on the contrary that the Seaman's Church is seen by the Government and followed up and supported up also in actual decisions and in budgets and appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1089	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1092	The financial crisis has been in focus since the presentation of the budget. The tension is actually more related to which wonder packages the Government is going to bring forward than what is being discussed and adopted now. This was a budget well adapted situation," said the Government. I guess we'll see where the government is. In higher education and research, we have seen one of the best examples that the government does not understand the effect of its own policy. Three years of booming has given us a cost explosion far beyond what is the cost compensation in the budget. Result: Rest cut is no longer just Djupedals, it's permanent and red-green chronic. The government has spent the three good years cutting down on and strangling incentives for industrial research. It has not at all sacrificed the political consensus that business research should be increased to 2 pst. of GDP by 2010, a thought during the period. The Ministry itself writes in the Storing Communication that public investment in ROU measures against enterprises provides significant benefits in addition to business economic performance. The government can't possibly understand the consequences of what they're writing. This is, of course, the core argument for finding solutions that increase business profitability. Times have changed. The crisis headlines are over us, the counter-ground gets heavy, and the Research Council and Norwegian Industry have presented figures that show that the crisis can have a very negative impact on business research. The government has not come up with countermeasures, but can look at the Right's alternative budget for good ideas. TAX FUNN is a very efficient system. It mobilises and reaches that part of business that is usually both difficult to reach and that researches little: small and medium-sized enterprises. It's getting wide. Therefore, the Right Tax Fund strengthens by approx. 490 million. kr. The BIA is strengthened by 25 million. DKK and industrial research worth 125 million. kr. These are measures that will stimulate projects on the basis of quality and potential and act on the premises of industry. The small increase the government grants to the BIA, is largely earmarked. It does not correspond to the intention of the scheme. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen quickly filed a claim against the commercial banks to cut the interest rate when Norway's Bank lowered it. It is strange then to hear that the research minister sees no reason why the state loan fund should need the same thing. The students are now the only group that will see an interest rate increase before they see an interest rate decrease. It is paradoxical and strange that the government parties do not support proposal No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox The representative Lena Jensen said in a reply that it was an assessment case, and made it a matter of money on the state budget. The fact that such considerations had to be taken into account was not particularly prominent in relation to the private actors when the claim came from Halvorsen. In many ways, this rather illustrates the consequences of state governance with the SV in the driver’s seat in terms of competition in the market. On the right, quality in school has become the focus. The challenges are many. In a knowledge society, they go from childhood to further education and retraining of adults. We have challenges along the whole line. At school, we have been concerned about developing ownership and management perspective. Being a leader in a school is a big challenge. I am pleased that the government has come after us on this point, but that you will not require compulsory management training for managers in school, I still think is a paradox. It is the headmaster who creates the good, learning and well-functioning school. And then there's the results. It is important to remember that the financial crisis also creates opportunities. In education, it gives us the opportunity to implement training measures aimed at those who are being or are in danger of being left out of the labour market. So this is going to be 100 million. kr extra to the BKA scheme. Training can then be adapted to enterprises, and many people who do not want to enter a school. In the right we register a great deal of interest in the programme on the part of the companies. 279 applications with a requested amount of 129.5 million. SEK in 2007, which was an increase of 35 million. kr from 2006, does not result in an increase in the appropriations from the Government. The right will focus on this as a response in times of crisis of 100 million. Extra kroner. The government may still come after in the notified crisis packages.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1113	In the 1980s and 1990s, there was a veritable race to map the full genetic code of man. Everyone knew that the results of this work could have enormous consequences for human health in the future. The race for the human genome can serve as an illustration of the importance of research and what is needed for the success of research. Some of the prerequisites for the success of the Human Genome Project were a strong commitment from the U.S. authorities, there were strong basic research environments, and there were wise heads with access to timely equipment. The red-green government develops a policy for research and higher education that could provide similar opportunities – because we believe it is important. It is essential that a small country such as Norway define clear areas for research. I have presented three overall perspectives for Norwegian research efforts: we will contribute to meeting the major global challenges; we will lay the foundation for further development of the welfare society; and we will create the knowledge base for tomorrow's value creation. It is not the responsibility of the authorities to pick out the individual research winner, but it is the responsibility of the authorities to create good framework conditions through strong efforts. In the 2009 state budget, we are continuing such efforts. The Red-Green Government has defined strengthening the research capacity as the means of achieving the major research objectives. The research capacity has many elements that work together and that we have significantly strengthened in the budget for 2009. The importance of research is that of universities and colleges which have the freedom of action to make the good research policy choices. This is why the Government has strengthened universities and the primary funding of higher education. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Government, by every crossroad in the last year, has strengthened the basic funding – in the revised budget this year, in the draft budget now for 2009 and in the new era for 2008. The clear message for Research Norway is that the Government prioritises this sector and meets the needs. I want to add that of the real growth of over DKK 1 billion from 2004 to 2008 to universities and colleges, more than half has been growth in basic appropriations. Infrastructure is also important for research capability. The government is therefore launching the construction of several new knowledge buildings. We are also taking decisive action to ensure the long-term and predictable financing of scientific equipment. By decomposing two thirds of the increase in the research fund to finance such equipment, we ensure that there will be a predictable provision to which the entire research sector can relate. As a stepping-up to this scheme, which will be in place from 2010, we are also adding equipment resources to the 2009 State budget. We are also introducing regional research funds for the first time in this budget, which will strengthen and stimulate further efforts across the country. To create good research skills, the raw material itself is needed – the wise minds. The government is putting in place a series of measures to maximise students’ skills. In order to facilitate student working conditions, high-ranking student housing is to be built next year. Unlike the previous government, we guarantee the students purchasing power development by price adjustment of the student support. We have also provided extra reinforcements for students with children and for students with disabilities who are delayed in the studies. When we also provide universities and universities with the financial means to provide good education by increasing basic funding, we facilitate the emergence of the talents that Norway relies on. The government also contributes to the further development of research efforts by the successful completion of the students’ recruitment positions. In order to ensure that these research recruits receive adequate follow-up in the institutions, the Government has proposed a significant increase in the funding of these posts. The direct appropriations for recruitment posts are only one of the sources of funding for scholarship holders and post doc. posts. Other major bets of the government, e.g. in the context of north-eastern policy and climate policy, will also indirectly contribute to the continuation of the strong growth in the number of graduate doctoral students. This year’s figures indicate that we are very good at reaching the target of 1 100 graduates by 2010. The success of this also raises the need to facilitate further career paths within universities and colleges. Therefore post doc. positions will also be an important building block. At the same time, the new system of nutrition doctorate degrees, introduced by this government in 2007, is being continued and strengthened. I would, of course, like to assess the further objectives and instruments of the recruitment policy of the notified research report. With this government budget, the government has gone past the previous one in all crucial areas. We have increased the research appropriations by SEK 1.6 billion compared to last year, we have built up regional research funds and strengthened the Research Fund to a far greater extent than the previous government, we have granted clearly more recruitment positions, built more student homes and provided purchasing power development for the students. We use research and knowledge throughout our lives to underpin our policies. We have delivered solid results. The Government budget proposal for 2009 confirms the Government’s commitment to the knowledge society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1139	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1142	Governments don't escape aircraft noise – we probably have almost a fixed agreement every year on this in the budget, so she won't escape this time either. We now see that Agder has actually put in place two different providers of aviation – the University of Agder, located in West Agder, and the Swedish Aeronautics College, Sør, located in East Agder. We also know that the government only wants a training offer added to Tromsø, although this per year. the current date is not up and running, nor does it have the amount of study places that the market actually requires. Why, then, is it not possible for the Government to go for an objective financing model, which does not favour the individual provider, but which actually gives the students a choice and which will also provide enough places of study in relation to market needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1149	We are very concerned that individual universities and colleges are our main operators to carry out the training we need, and of course, in terms of both pilot training and air traffic controller training – all aspects of aviation – we see with great interest the forces that are moving in both Agder and Tromsø. We try to stimulate through colleges that they will also be interested in prioritizing this. Single training offers are never easy for the Government to just deploy without also having a good dialogue with the whole system. So we evaluate the whole of the need and look at how we can help to stimulate individual educational sites to maybe give a different priority than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1156	There is no need for any government to be able to boast on a escalating, when the first thing they do is to cut down. The cut of DKK 25 billion in the transfer to the Research Fund is an example of what this government started its reign with, just as cut off from basic funding to universities and colleges. It was just the last thing that made me respond, because the Council of State says, by every crossroad, we have strengthened the basic funding. In the magazine Education No. 10 for 2008 the following statements from former Council of State Øystein Djupedal can be read: « I fought hard against the cut of about 250 million to higher education and warned very strongly Kristin Halvorsen that we were going to get criticism and lose tens of thousands of votes in higher education. [[...]] I also ran a slide lecture for the government with a presentation of some of the 1,000 critical articles and the posts in the media. The presentation made enough impressions”. It doesn't seem like it's made a special impression. Is it former State Council Djupedal who is right that there is a dramatic cut in higher education, or is it the State Council Torah Aasland who is right that there has been a strengthening at each and every crossroads?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1172	I said it had been a reinforcement at every crossroad in the last year, and I know that it has been cut earlier. But what I said, and which is very important in relation to the holistic approach, is that from 2004 to 2008, there has actually been an increase in the basic allocation – that is, before the previous government went on and on – of over NOK 1 billion. But there's been an increase in the sector of $1 billion, and half of this is based. We've been meaning to strengthen base. We see how important it is, and that's why fortunately I've got a strengthening of the basic allocation now by three crossroads in the last year. I have the goal of continuing this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1180	The Committee considers that professional requirements should form the basis for becoming a university. Nevertheless, we now see that the new universities are being unduly pursued in several areas. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that what the new universities do, and which is similar to colleges, is financed as colleges. But what we do that is equal to universities should also be rewarded. In particular, we see that the University of Stavanger and the University of Agder are pending with regard to research funding. In the case of grant awards, they would have had a higher share if they had remained in higher education than they would have received as universities. In Agder there is no funding for mental health, and Kristiansand is left out as a press area – there are no new student homes built, as has been done elsewhere in the country. Does the Council of State consider this to be the proper treatment of a new university and two new university areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1189	There has been a fantastic effort from the two new universities that the representative mentions, to get through the loop and get ready to become a university. There are tough demands. It is, as the representative himself says, the professional achievements that underlie a great deal of the funding that universities receive. I am very concerned about this particular issue, and there is also an important reason why we are now reviewing the funding system for universities and colleges, precisely to both try to find good opportunities for cooperation to pay off, and to find opportunities for any strategic instruments that can help them across a knack where necessary. But we have to deal with the whole system in an open and fair way, and I can assure the representative that this is important to me in our assessment of the funding system and in the further follow-up of the entire sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1196	In Stortinget we have heard the Council's reality description of the current situation at universities and colleges. I will contribute a different description of reality from a letter from the Board of Universities and Universities received yesterday by the Education Committee: «The budgetary situation in the sector remains difficult.» And then one ends by saying that because of different ‘eyemarked actions’, the space for action has been ‘significantly reduced’. And then the conclusion: ‘And institutions’ – in respect of the 2009 budget – ‘have had to cut the study offer, reduce group education and refrain from job vacancies due to a lack of funding of DKK 405 million.’ It is thus the summation of the budget for 2009 by the university and higher education sectors. They wisely do not choose to go into technical Norwegian. They go into the real situation, and the real situation is described. My question is then: can the Council of State guarantee that what is described here by the Council of Universities and Higher Education will be done as soon as possible in 2009? Can we count on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1215	I would like to repeat what I also said to the representative of Dørum in the financial debate the other day, that there is no cut in the sector, what has to do with the follow-up and handling of pay and pension issues. But I can promise the representative that we're working on the structure of the pay and price corrections, which is one of the two elements of the slightly large extra expenses that universities and colleges are now facing. What is my wish, as I hope I share with the representative of Dørum, is that these institutions should remain net budgeted, that they should manage themselves, and that they should be able to deal with the situation in budgetary terms, too, on the basis of taking their own responsibility. There we are probably facing an important choice. Are they going to keep doing that? Then I am aware that they must have adequate frameworks and predictability, and that is what you are working on. Or should they go back to the system before the quality reform? To me, it is a very central part of the quality reform that they maintain their independence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1222	I didn't get much wiser by the line exchange with Inger Enger instead, so I allow myself to ask this question to the Council of State: In the state budget, it says that we per person. 1 September this year had 1,058 approved post-secondary education. Most of these are privately driven. The next sentence states that the operational responsibilities of these specialised schools are to be transferred to the county municipalities in 2010. I have not heard anything about this, except for the Communists of Eastern Europe, their confiscation and nationalization of private properties. As the rapporteur-in-Office, I therefore tried to clean this up and say that this had to be a upresis description. But then the government parties reported out. The Christian People's Party and the Left also signed out, so we stood alone with the Right to think that this was unexplained. In that case, the other parties must believe that it is precise to say that operational responsibility is to be transferred to the county councils. Then I have to ask the Council of State: which schools are to transfer their operational responsibilities to the municipalities in 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1233	I think we have a political disagreement about the background of this transfer of the vocational schools. I suppose we can see that. For us, it has been important that the vocational schools now be transferred to the county municipalities and seen in the context of higher education and the choices the young people will make after that. The vocational schools already in the counties are the technical vocational schools. They've been there before, and they're going to stay there. We have a challenge in health schools, i.e. health education. It is clear that the health schools are to be transferred to the county councils, with operational responsibilities and all the responsibilities that come with them. Then, of course, we have some formal challenges in relation to the other vocational schools. The aim is to transfer responsibility to the county municipalities. But to the extent that the vocational schools are initially private and owned by others, it is primarily the formal anchoring that is transferred to the county municipalities. Then you have to have a process for that transfer, perhaps thinking about how to share the responsibility. But I see the representative's points, and I want to make sure that we get good processes for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1242	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1245	While School-Norway in the period of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left in the Government was to be described as a battlefield because of the bulldozer policy that was pursued, we today experience that the school debates are marked by constructive debate and calmness. The students no longer strike, and the teachers are satisfied that they are again heard and included in important decisions. It's no longer us who governs that makes school people look red. It is the opposition that, with the untapped opinions of the Health Agency of the Advance Party in Oslo, Sylvi Listhaug, that ‘teachers have a blank mandate to destroy the future of the people’, and Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide’s opinions on the ‘red-green playground’ at the beginning of this year. The fact that the chairperson of the Committee underlines the importance of learning through play is alarming. Everyone knows that children are curious and hungry for knowledge, and when learning makes fun, it can only be an advantage – but obviously not from a right point of view. School has no more important tasks than learning to read, write and calculate. That learning already takes place in kindergarten is a strength for learning further in life. The main task of the school in the first few years must be to provide students with the skills that are the basis for all other learning later — at school and in life. Nothing is better than this happening on the kids' premises. It's important to learn in many different ways. It's been many years since we stopped believing that boarding school in classrooms was the only way to knowledge. The education budget that we are adopting today has a clear knowledge profile. We continue to strengthen the public common school. The status of the teacher shall be lifted, new principal training shall be put in place, and a permanent system for the further training of teachers shall be adopted. The proposals of St.meld. No 31 for 2007–08, quality in school, followed by concrete measures and money. Over Christmas, there will be a big message about teacher training, but we are already adopting important measures in the field of teacher education in this budget. We set up 180 new places in teacher training and start a recruitment campaign for next year. The teachers who choose real science and language and take practical education will receive NOK 50000 in the depreciation of the study loan. 400 million will be granted. SEK for the further training of teachers, where the State pays part of the temporary work costs. We'll give you 470 million. kr to early effort at first to fourth stages, with a full-year impact of DKK 1 billion from 2010. This will increase the teacher's density and benefit students who labor in math and Norwegian. Increasing the number of hours in primary school has been important for this government. While the opposition lacks a plan and disagrees with itself, we have a clear profile. From the autumn of 2008, the number of hours has increased by a total of five weeks of 60 minutes each, and from the next harvest, the school day is further extended by two hours of week to physical activity at the child’s stage. Physical activity is important for a more varied school day and a better learning outcomes for students. Today we adopt a new eight-year interest compensation of NOK 15 billion. This year, $2 billion goes to the investment framework. I am quite provoked and find it simply very strange that parts of the opposition now embrace this system. The then Right State Council Kristin Klemet proposed in 2005 to cut the scheme altogether. The fact that the scheme is now being embraced by the Right is quite difficult to understand. I would like to remind you that it was not because of the Right, but despite the Right that the scheme was secured in 2005. In a reply earlier today, the representative Eriksen Soreide said that we are taking a break in the arrangement, and she made a number that there is no money to the arrangement for the current year. No, had the Right still managed, there might have been money this year as well, but it would have been because they would have paid out a significantly lower amount each year. But with the Bondevik government's 2005 proposal, much might suggest that they were considering stopping the whole scheme. In this budget, we continue to strengthen the public common school. Unlike the opposition, we have a clear plan for the school. We have expanded the number of hours of childhood with the strengthening of Norwegian, math and English, and we have strengthened early efforts in the basic skills of childhood by escalating the teacher's density in Norwegian, math and English. We're going to build the school layers on layers, stone on stone. We're going to cooperate with parents, teachers, students and school owners. Because while the only plan on the right seems to have for the school, is to criticize it apart and together, our plan is to build a good public school for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1273	It is both predictable and unpredictable to hear representatives from the opposition talk about school policy from this pulpit. Predictably, because we know they will try with massive criticism of the government party's school policy – it doesn't matter. But it is also unpredictable, because we do not fully know what criticism goes on from side to side or from party to side. The opposition lacks a direction in its school policy – they do. The Labour Party and the Government are doing what we have said to do: bet on the quality and development of school for everyone. The previous speeches in the debate by representatives of the government parties clearly show this. Let me do a couple of other areas: the problem of waste, we have to do something about it. I'm convinced that many of the causes of apostasy are found early in school. That's why I have great faith in the early effort and the effort we're making here. Everyone deserves to get on well with their schooling. Then there's one thing I'm very happy that we've got into this budget, and that's the increased investment in the career centers around the counties -- $17 million. allocated to all counties in order to strengthen the advisory service. A better transition between secondary and secondary education is important in order to reduce non-response. Some people choose the wrong race. With better advice, we can reduce the risk of choice errors. The fact that we have previously shared the counselling service in a social and professional educational context will also help to strengthen counselling. Before the 2005 elections, I took part in many debates about where I said that the Workers' Party would provide students with free upper secondary education. Old, empty promises were the answer from the bourgeois parties. But with the budget for next year, this is a reality. In autumn 2009, all higher education steps will have access to free learning material. We started working on this as early as 2000–2001. The first Bondevik II government did was to remove the books with a pen stroke. It is an honest matter that the Right and Left do not want free teaching material for everyone, and they prefer to have to meet in the principal’s office the first day of school with the hat in hand and ask for money for school books if you need it. Such a society does not want the Workers' Party. We'll continue with free teaching for everyone and are happy that it's in place from the next harvest. It is worth noting to all students in the country that if the Right and Left come into government in 2009, it may mean that they take the teaching materials out of their hands – again. Study time is both an exciting and a demanding time for most. Many look back on study time as the best time of life. But there are few who look back at study time like the time when you had the best economic and material, and it probably shouldn't be like that either. But it is important that we ensure the students good framework conditions, scholarships, loans and student housing. Therefore, each year, including for 2009, the government parties have indexated loans and scholarships. The rates did not increase a single dollar under the previous government. From next year, a student will receive NOK 7 600 more per year than when we took over in 2005. Then we're adding up to building 1,000 new student homes. There are more than three times as many commitments made for 2005. We've increased the appropriations every year. 1000 new student homes have been a goal that we can now achieve. We're proud of what we've done in the field of education with this and the previous budgets, but that doesn't mean we're satisfied. There are still challenges in school and higher education that we have to solve. In a time of great economic turmoil, it is important that we have a good education system that embraces everyone. One of the things that unites us most in Norway across culture, religion and society is the Norwegian Joint School. Luckily, the fury caused by the bourgeois parties in the last period was halted in 2005. I noticed that the Right Party and the Advance Party are not talking so much about private schools in the public sector anymore. But I have also noticed the signals from the same parties about increasing privatisation, commercialisation and the possibility of dividends to the school owners if they decide. The Labour Party is prepared to take that debate at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1294	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1297	The school is one of the most important pillars of our welfare society, and the debate on how the school should be is fortunately engaging many. I am glad that the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Center Party, has a constant look at how the school can get even better. Instead of sewing and complaining, we have taken action – and have taken action – to make the school even better. We do that in agreement with school owners, school managers, teachers, other employees, parents and students. In order to succeed, it is necessary to create a ownership relationship with the changes that are being made. We record that this was not necessarily the case under the previous government. We have a lot to be proud of in the field of school policy. Here are some examples: we have stopped the release of commercial and private schools; we have introduced free teaching materials for high school students; we have strengthened the counselling service, among others. through the creation of career centres in each state, we have introduced new national tests, more time for physical activity, and we have introduced five new hours at the nursery with the strengthening of Norwegian, English and mathematics. We'll work on doing school even better. Therefore, we will present proposals for new teacher training to spring. We will also continue to work on tackling non-response, improving training in basic subjects, looking at more opportunities for vocational education and providing better opportunities for the further training of teachers. Our school policy is about putting school owners, school leaders, teachers, other employees, parents and students in a position to create an even better school. We do that by motivating and engaging in combination with the right school tools. We don't think the opposition's black paint of Norwegian school in any way makes the school better. Nor do we believe that the opposition's black paint of the Norwegian school makes more people want to become teachers. Our school is an important community venue for both professional and social learning. The Labour Party will be a guarantor of this in the future as well. So we're going to have to keep our eyes on the challenges in school. These challenges are to be solved together with those involved in school. We're going to really value them – not take away the motivation with sewing, complaining and negative characteristics, like play schools, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1320	In research, it's important that one hand knows what the other person is doing. Norway has no mobility strategy for students from and into Norway. We only have 5 pst. PhD students from other countries to Norway — measured against OECD countries, on an average of 16pst. We also need to think much more about who we're going to attract and where we're sending our students out. A targeted plan to protect Norway’s interests in the short and long term must be at the bottom, as also pointed out by the OECD when the Committee was visiting France in September. We got a lot of good input from different OECD groupings and representatives. I want to point out a couple of these recordings here from the pulpit, because I can't exactly see that they have enough space in the government budget. Tips given to Norway: We need to put in place a long-term strategy related to economic needs and business needs. Norway should increase its research and development share even more. We need to get into external academic, cross-sectoral and multidisciplinary cooperation. We have to expect and demand that our students in higher education give something back, that they take responsibility for their choices. The OECD also said that we have to look at what I would call the Eternal Student, who is shopping by subject, and takes up important places for other students. It should be a consequence when students change their studies along the way. We need to define much clearer objectives and profile what each university and each college has as their upper and lower secondary competence. We need much more cooperation between academia and industry. I will also refer to the two newest universities, the University of Agder and the University of Stavanger. They've done a great job. We need to be better at turning around, turning knowledge into concrete action according to business needs. These were just some of the proposals that different actors pointed out to the committee when we were in Paris. I hope the government has listened to the OECD. We in the Progress Party are working intensively on several good proposals that will come beyond spring, and we hope that the Government will listen, and will be able to join in. As far as research-driven innovation is concerned, the Progress Party believes that governments need to take far more account of industry’s priorities, not vice versa, when universities are to be motivated to develop good business ideas rather than to put them in the drawer. However, it should also be remembered that research is not conducted in the Research Council or Innovation Norway, but is carried out in small and large industrial enterprises, as well as by university scientific staff, students and individuals. The time frame is open. It just remains to be seen whether it is the political will of the Government to take advantage of the opportunities we have today, but perhaps not tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1341	Since I arrived at the Stortinget three years ago, we from the Workers' Party in Hordaland have fought to realize three important state buildings in Bergen. This is a new odontology building, a new gulating and a co-location of the University of Bergen. I am very pleased that with this budget we are in port with the start of the odontology building and a new gulating. I am also pleased that the co-location of the University of Bergen is now approaching a realization. The budget has set out for launch in 2010, and Statsbyg has now received a clear signal to prepare the project for rapid start-up. At these times, with increasing unemployment in the construction industry, it will be useful and necessary to speed up the start-up of this project. We need construction work, and we need training capacity. Hordaland Arbeiderparti has proposed to the Government that this project be launched in the context of the announced crisis package due in January/February. The headmaster's at Kronstad, Bergen, is 72. The higher education institution will be in the sub-part, with 30 targets in the northern part assigned to other activities, fully regulated. I would encourage the Minister of Research and Higher Education to take initiatives to ensure that the development of this area also starts as soon as possible. The aim here is to localise construction and industrial activities, which can support the activities of the College, both by strengthening the school’s educational capacity and by establishing cooperation with industry. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to strike a blow for the investment of the University of Bergen in engineering in underwater technology. This is per. funded today by private funds, as it is palatable for the other engineering subjects at the Bergen College. There is no room for the transfer of operating resources from these. I expect the Ministry and the University of Bergen to find a solution to this problem, so that this important education offer can be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1352	Instead of suing and complaining, the government parties wanted to build a school, said Freddy de Ruiter, and then he began to sue and complain about the opposition. It's a paradox in itself. I need to say something about church policy to the committee. Church policy shall support the Church's vision for the Norwegian Church, which is: “In Christ, near life – a confessing, mind-blowing, ministering and open church of the people.” The Norwegian Church must be a religious community that can invite people in all ages and life situations to faith and fellowship. The Christian People's Party will follow up the broad state-church agreement concluded between all the parties in the Stortinget. The Norwegian Church is facing a major democratic reform and means are needed to implement it in a good way. We believe that the government's draft budget is not sufficient, but we are pleased with the signals that the minister of the church gives here today on commitment in relation to the over New Year's oeuvre. The important thing is that the Government follows up the reconciliation and commits itself so that the desire of the Storting and the Church for increased available democracy can be carried out. The church’s arrangements and rituals are used in important events in the individual’s life and often form the framework of national or local events. The Norwegian Church is engaged in a comprehensive reform of the religious service system. We agree with the Government that this is an important reform of great importance for the Norwegian Church, a reform that government authorities also have a responsibility to support. That is why we proposed to allocate 1 million in our alternative budget. kr to the work of the Council of Churches on the reform. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that the reform of religious education is being followed up. It is an important objective to make the reform nationwide and accessible to all. On the other hand, it is wrong to finance this by taking away from the church councils. The joint councils, especially in the small municipalities, are exposed to economic fluctuations. Therefore, it is the council of the smallest municipalities that is hardest hit by this cut. The Norwegian Church is facing a serious lack of priests. There are hardly any applicants for about 100 job vacancies now available, which may particularly affect the three northernmost counties. The age distribution in the performance will only make this worse in the next few years. There is therefore a need for an action plan on how to increase recruitment to the service in the future. We have a lot of pastors who work in civil life, but we also have an important job of recruiting pastors into educational situations. I believe that together we can build something positive for the Norwegian Church, but I think you need to listen a little bit more to the Christian People's Party, to get the right budgets in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1374	First of all, the fundamental difference between the red-green parts and the left is what we give priority to at school, what we put first. The left has said every year in this room that we put it first to have enough teachers and teachers with a lot of competence. That is why we have promoted the requirement of competence to teach. That is why we have put forward proposals for teacher training reform. That's why we've also re-prioritised money to strengthen the further education that the government has started, because for us it's not a further education for any teachers in any subject. For us, it is an ongoing training for all teachers in all subjects, at regular intervals. So we have a completely different ambition. For those who wonder where we can see the results of ambition, you can, for example: see the school system in this city, where both the Left and the Right have had city councils for the last eight years. We see that in a school system of 37 pst. language minorities and many, many different students are lifted because of learning pressures — good management, good teachers’ rates and teacher building. This common school is the ideal of the left, but to get it done we have to give priority. And similarly, in the case of universities and colleges, we simply do not get to ensure good education and basic, good research by under-funding these institutions, even in a time of crisis. I agree with the Aasland Council that we are going to keep a net budgeting, but in a net budgeting it must be so that you can deal with it reasonably. When a storm occurs around you, e.g. when the country becomes properly paid in a payroll, it is not so easy to capture it within the framework of a net budgeting, and when a sudden leap and move in terms of pension amounts is made, it is not easy to do so either. When we look at this in the context of what has happened before – firstly, with the rest cut, with the damage that has been done to the sector when we have to re-prioritize, then a lot of earrings and a failure of basic appropriations – we get pressure on these institutions by the fact that flexibility is gone. That is why I chose to say that there is a lack of money to ensure that people are not laid off, that job vacancies are actually filled, that there is a commitment to research, and that the study offer is not impaired. This is the political challenge. We are politicians, and we should not talk in this room as if we were making a circular to the Ministry of Finance – no matter which party we belong to. This is the real situation. This is the situation out there – which we have been notified about yesterday, through the University and Higher Education Council, led by very sober people, who have as their job to tell us what the situation is. That is what the Left now expects the government parties to clean up during the time we have in the new year – as soon as possible and at the latest revised – when we know that we have different budget rounds in 2009. We simply expect that in practice universities and colleges will not get a new sedative – even if it is not called it. We expect that sacrificing Djupedal was actually such a big deal for the government parties that you get good results for universities and colleges. The left expects that, and we're going to agitate for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1389	Professional schools have been mentioned several times here today. The background is that responsibility for these is to be transferred to the county municipality from 2010. There is a large majority in the committee in favour of this – only the Progress Party and the Right do not support it. I think it is important that the responsibility is transferred to the county. It's those who are responsible for high school today, and it's right to see high school and colleges in the context. The technical vocational schools are, moreover, already responsible for the county. Now, first of all, the health professions come in. And that's important, given that there's a huge shortage of health professionals around the country. Then it might be okay for the states to get an overview of this. I think about psychiatry, geriatry, etc. State Council Aasland stated in its statement that in this area there is a need for cleaning work — including for part of the vocational schools. What she was thinking about here was probably the private ones, for example. different natural-purpose schools. We are many who are concerned about these schools, and we need to look at – and get to – good arrangements for them. I can assure you that we are many parties that will be in charge of this type of school. So to the representative Gundersen, who was inside me when it came to ‘the University of Milk and Bread’ – as some of us call it – and the Veterinary College. I perceived it so that Gundersen thought that NVH was not properly maintained – it is possible that I misunderstood it. But I just want to say a little bit about it. First of all, I have to say that when this merger was decided, an interim regime was set up immediately, which actually works. Everyone's in. Then, in the context of that co-location, the majority has proposed to allocate $3 million. kr as a one-off appropriation for the administrative and professional integration process. It is important for me to stress that these funds will go to both parties, i.e. both NVH and UMB. In order to strengthen this work, an additional NOK 534 000 is allocated as a one-off appropriation. It shall be for the staff of NVH to be released in connection with this merger process. We've done that just because we know that this process is very heavy and difficult. At least it should not be on money to ensure that this process is successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1406	State authorities have a separate responsibility to preserve and further develop the Sami culture and language, which are also part of the common cultural heritage in Norway. It is important that our indigenous people are guaranteed the right to their own language, culture and social life, as enshrined in international conventions. The state has, among other things: Under the Basic Law, § 110a undertook to facilitate this. In this debate, I would particularly like to stress our common commitments and our shared responsibility for Sami children in initial training. It is important that Sami children maintain and develop their linguistic identity. Development of new learning materials in Sami is very important to ensure good training in Sami children and in Sami. I'm sure most people will agree with me that everything messed up around Sami textbooks can't go on. Sami students have requirements for up-to-date learning material, in line with the Sami knowledge promise. This applies to teaching materials for students who have Sami as their first language, as well as to those who have it as their second language. It is positive to read several of the comments from the majority in the vote on this, but I would like to emphasise that I am pleased that the Left in its alternative budget proposes to increase the appropriation by a total of five million. to strengthen the production of Sami learning materials and improve the conditions for Sami textbook authors. I am similarly disappointed that the government parties will not support our proposal. In our budget option, 3 million. kr is used for the production of Sami educational materials, while 2 million. kr shall contribute to improving the conditions for Sami textbook authors. According to the Sàgat newspaper of April 24 this year, at that time there were about 150 000 new and finished textbooks at different publishers, while there was a great lack of textbooks in the Sami school. Unfortunately, there is still a complete lack of textbooks adapted to the new reform, and from several quarters it is claimed that the educational tool crisis may not be over until 2013. This is a completely unacceptable long time. This is why it is very important that the overall responsibility of the national team for the production of Sami educational materials is seen and contributes to the fulfilment of the new strategic curriculum of the Sameting. The second point that the Left has called for in addition to the Government's proposal is to improve the conditions for textbook authors. Sami textbook writers are recruited from a very small environment. Teachers often have to take leave from their position in school to develop Sami books. To take a concrete example, it may not be reasonable for a teacher who has taken 50 pst. leave from teaching to develop 15 Sámi textbooks shall lose five years of service on this important work – a work that is absolutely essential for the public Sámi school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1419	I have noticed that the representative Gorm Kjernli felt that the opposition lacked direction in its school policy, that it split from one to the next. In the same debate, the representative Freddy de Ruiter twice said that there are so many similarities in opposition policy that he thought that there was a basis for coexistence. I think the representative Kjernli should notice that the opposition is not one. It consists of four different parties, which in this case have been able to gather on 22 proposals and – according to the representative de Ruiter – 80 common comments. It doesn't crack much of it! The reason I took the floor was the surprise of the representative Opheim that the Progress Party does not agree with the observation that the reform of faith training is an important prerequisite for a broad and committed people's church. The Progress Party believes that it is drawing the reform of faith and its consequences too far, because we are fully convinced that the broad and committed Church of Peoples could have a life without the reform of faith education, but it is not an attack on it. I have to say that I was a little surprised at the statements made by the representative, Mr. Enger, against the response of the Council of State in the change of line on vocational schools. For what I understood the Council of State said was that the private vocational schools would be transferred to the county municipalities, so that they would no longer be operated by private companies, but by the county council. That is what operational responsibility is all about. But I saw the representative of Enger's defence for the vocational schools in the agricultural sector in a different way. I am therefore not quite sure whether the government parties agree with themselves on whether or not they believe that all these private vocational schools should be nationalised. Because if they think so, this is a matter far greater than the attention it has received so far. Finally, I think it is gratifying to be able to express that the contribution of the representative de Ruiter today was so little provocative that it is basically nothing else to note that the comparison of motivating and engaging teachers, parents and students to create a good school could also perhaps have been used in higher education and research, where one does not experience the same commitment, but experiences cutbacks, unforeseeableness, poor equipment, a little hope, which again replaces with new hopelessness. If the representative de Ruiter could convince his government party colleagues of the same commitment to higher education and research as what he claimed to have for school, for basic training, that would be an advantage for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1432	It is with some wonder that I have heard the debate. I hear that the red-green politicians are now trying to take credit for the change of direction that the Right and Kristin Klemet stood for in the previous period. It is obvious that breaking a trend requires tough roofing, and it will also create counterclaims. But we all see how important it was today. Now the school is on its way back to imparting knowledge and competence, and demands must be made. Obviously, most of the government parties' representatives here believe that it's really just moving on to the wave that's already created. It may well show why there is a lack of pressure in many processes in school, and why we refuse to take the additional necessary steps that need to be taken to really get the Knowledge Lift in place. The future knowledge society depends on getting more pressure. So a little bit back to that with physical activity in school. I agree with the Government that more pressure is needed here. We must move from words to action in this area too. In our alternative budget, we have focused on the fact that the quality of physical activity in school needs to be much more focused. It's actually about reaching the inactive, and you don't do that without having a lot of knowledge of how to get there. We see that there is a much greater excitement in the youth group today than it has ever been in terms of activity. We know that between 15 and 20 pst. by young people, the life a researcher would call inactive, and there will be major challenges for health budgets in the future. There's also a leadership challenge in school, I'd say. There is a question of how best to fit physical activity into a school day, making it practical in schools. It's a huge challenge, which requires quite a lot of testing and experimentation with new models. Finally, I would like to make some comments about Wang and NTG and the top sports offer. The Committee's consideration has actually revealed that there is a considerable uncertainty about how to practice some solutions in the field of sport and landlines in the field of skiing. There may be considerable distortions of competition, depending on whether the county grants independently of the country lines – so that it comes to the top – or whether the county grants come after the country line grant comes. We have put forward a few proposals that the review notified by the Ministry takes account of the conditions of competition in relation to the private offerings and that this is also considered with a separate sport rate and specific grants with regard to the number of places available. I'm asking the department to take it with me in that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1447	First, I want to clarify a manifest misunderstanding. The proposal from the Right and the Advance Party to consider changes in the time it takes for the Loan Fund to change its interest rates has nothing to do with the interest rate premium. The interest rate premium is due to the state's loan fund offering unsecured loans. It's just a matter of following the pace of the money market, it's not about the interest rate premium. This might mean that the government parties are still considering supporting our proposal. Several have been involved in research, perhaps specifically linked to the Research Fund. It's interesting to note that if the government parties and government hadn't cut 25 billion kroner in the planned escalation of the Research Fund, as they did when they came into government, we would today have been closer to the goal that the state is using 1 pst. of GDP for research. So there's been a lot of discussion, perhaps especially with the representatives Anna Ljunggren and Gorm Kjernli, that the opposition parties black paint the school. It is very interesting that these representatives say that the school was a battlefield for bulldozer policy and not least that the previous government was raging public schools. There's something about the vocabulary here that I don't think belongs in the big room, considering what we know that the previous government did, and considering what language use is like. The previous government was very concerned about strengthening the public school through the Knowledge Promise, by investing in several teachers, through teaching skills, through several hours — what was important first. That's what we did. So I think it's wrong to say that pointing out what the red-green government has done for the school, and what the same parties did before they came into government, is a black paint. Rather, on the contrary, I think it is a reasonable point. In the setting when Stortinget dealt with Reform 97, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV thought that playing in the school would result in testing more skills at once, such as singing, jumping and clapping or singing and hooves telling a story and playing in layers. Grete Knudsen of the Workers' Party, who was head of the Education Committee, believed that Norwegian school held a high standard, and that it succeeded far in providing basic skills. You can't be more wrong. The Norwegian school in 1999, which was the time when Grete Knudsen spoke this, was not close to giving basic skills to the students. If it were, we wouldn't have had the big drop-out we had in high school, then it wouldn't have been like 20 pst. by students leaving high school, unable to read and write properly. If the Norwegian school had at that time been close to giving basic skills, the Right, Christian People's Party and Left would not have to start on the huge reverse operation we did in order to get the Norwegian public common school right again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1460	In today's debate, especially the Right's representatives have tried to make it a point that since the economy is growing, there is more and more money, and then one should have no reason to boast that one can actually use the money. Fortunately, in the situation that in this rich country, we have a lot of room to make priorities and bets. This plurality has managed to meet its national transport plan, we have carried out a kindergarten revolution, and we have spent an extra 1 billion kroner for north-eastern betting. I'm recording that Right thinks that north-area betting is the same thing as a study center in North-Troms. It's their bill. I find it sad that they will not support the proposal on regional funds. This plurality has managed to spend 2 billion more on culture, almost 30 billion more on municipalities, and only until next year we'll spend 2 billion more on school development measures. At the same time, this government, this plurality, has been able to strengthen its share of GDP from 0.66 pst. when we took over, to 0.75 pst. Next year. It's part of GDP that's being strengthened. That means we're doing a priority in research. Where the right also had a bag of extra money, one of the priorities was to use the main part of that bag on tax bills. It's quite a typical civic policy. In the opposition one talks about well-being, in the position one always prioritizes tax relief because tax relief is always the right answer to all questions. «The speech of the figures is ready," said Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide and referred to another speaker from the government party earlier in the debate. - Yes, speak your speech is ready. When Right asks, and gets the answer that it takes $6.5 billion to make sure that one reaches the research goal by 2010, Right answers to bring in about 5 pst. of the rights of their draft budget. And then a plot on the table can be a suggestion to spend $10 million. kr to the start of the University of Bergen. It's not in the vicinity of what it takes to get started. One is big in rhetoric, big in words – but the policy that one actually puts on the table is out of proportion to that. Retorics are important in politics. I want everyone who's busy with this field to go behind the rhetoric and look at the realities. So we've been able to strengthen our share of GDP from 0.66 pst. to 0.75 pst. I actually think it's something to be proud of, even if we're not naked – because research is the good answer to the challenges in the future. That means we're going to keep increasing those permissions. In these three years, we've shown that we're doing it. Right-hand talk about how they could have done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1472	When the Stortinget dealt with the big business message that followed the study carried out by the Berg Committee, «Between the bark and the wood», the Workers' Party in its time ordered that short, vocational education based on secondary school should be added to the university level — while SV believed that it would be a municipal task and that there would be a further establishment of vocational education in secondary school. I now note that SV has won with its vision today. All the other parties, including the Center Party, wanted a law of their own for a school team, and we got the Ph.D. Act. Personally, I should have liked it to have been called the school type something else, that we had seen Finland and called it professional college. Then we might have cleaned up some of the conditions we've seen in retrospect, where we've been a little uncertain about what really should be in the vocational school concept. But we've clarified it. When we dealt with the law again in 2007, we did some tightening there. The council confirmed my fear in its reply to me. In the health and social field in particular, the Government is concerned that the county council is given operational responsibility, says the Council of State. It should make the Christian People's Party and the Left wake up and think about what they're really into. It should also cause the Workers' Party and the Centre to wake up, for many of the approved vocational education courses we have in the health and social field are conducted, among other things. by AOF, Municipal Competence and a number of other private actors. If we are to take the Council of State seriously – and we should do well – the Government intends to take over the operational responsibility for these trainings. So private use of resources and, not least, time on a comprehensive application authorisation at NOKUT, and then the government comes to reap the fruits of that work. It illustrates this government's lack of respect for private schools. The trade union should seriously consider what they have regained for their support to the Government in 2005. We know that private schools are much faster to capture the needs of the labour market than the public. If that's how the public is going to undermine private schools, as this is being added up to, I think it'll kill any initiative from private ones. I also believe that in the long term it will frustrate the offer of vocational education. The government has given way to pressure in relation to health and social sciences because of the gender bias. This has led to the need for approx. 25 pst. of education and training in the field of health and social sciences. But I would also like to see all the other vocational education courses that we need in the Norwegian labour market, and to ensure that they also received good treatment regardless of whether they are run by public or private.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1481	It was the representative Dørum's statement on priorities that led me to draw, in particular that he referred to the systematic different priorities between the Left and the Red-Green parties. That's right. I have noticed that there is a consensus about much, if most of what the Government proposes – but I have also noticed that the Left actually distinguishes itself by being it of the opposition party that goes against most of the government's measures for kindergarten and basic training. It's a little bit surprising. I want to take a chance to boast of a few of the things they're proposing. They propose a strong increase in continuing education among teachers as an introduction to a year of competence. In fact, for the seven years left itself, there was no year of competence, not even a day of competence. But after all, it's better that they suggest it when they're in opposition than not at all. There is also a very good investment in research. It is true that when the Left itself put into government, the escalation of research was much less than under this government. However, it is far better that they suggest it in the opposition than not at all. It is the invasion that surprises both me and many others, I believe – for one cutter together, roughly, NOK 1.7 billion in kindergarten, ground school and further on. Norwegian parents of kindergarten children and parents who have children in secondary school will have to pay more money if Left gets it as they like – $1,500 roughly in addition to kindergartens in a year, and there may be thousands of dollars in textbooks for those in secondary school. I think many families in Norway in the financial crisis don't think it's a good policy to increase spending on having kids. Then a cut hour in the base ball, cut physical activity in the base ball and cut fruit and green in the base ball. I must say again that the Left's view of fruit and green is known. The left view of the hour is also known. I'm disunity in both. But that the Left was also opposed to physical activity and thinks it should be less physical activity, surprises me very much. I don't think I've heard of anyone who doesn't think Norwegian elephants should be more physically active in school. We know that the schools say that time is the most important thing. One says that one needs money to prioritize other things. Then it's interesting to see if someone in the main budget could have done another grip. Yes, one could e.g. has chosen to keep up the changes in taxes, inheritance taxes and property taxes, as proposed by the Government, instead of proposing an easier tax on wealth and inheritance taxes to the richest in Norway. So the left has given priority to the lighters in its alternative budget, rather than the contents of the school, and to the Norwegian family. The left says that for the left there is a matter of priorities. To be more precise, there is a question of down-priorities – a down-priority of the school, which, for my part, I think is surprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1494	The story has to be written. ‘There is no shortage of resources in school today.’ This is an opinion delivered by the Court of Justice in 2003. That's when the Right was in government and the Clamet was Minister of Education. At the same meeting, Clemet said in his speech to the national meeting that we have to make sure we get enough money back. She also said that the Norwegian school had high teacher density and high resource use, and the conclusion was that we need to make better use of the money we spend at school. The choice for the Right, when they were in government, was tax relief for the richest. There is a gap in the opposition's comments in the setting today at some of the most important and central points. Left cutters and want fewer hours of training, and they want fewer hours of gym. Right wants more hours, but they don't have it in their budget. When you put the Advance Party's program on top of this, the party there wants to cut one year off of primary school. This is civil chaos at its worst. Vera Lysklätt was on the pulpit today and talked about teaching materials for Sami children. That's a very important point. The majority of the Education Committee have long, broad comments on this, and it has been a topic on which we have been very concerned. It is not the money issue that is the big challenge now. The major challenge is to increase production activity and reduce the production time of the Sami teachers’ resources. The Committee has also asked for an assessment as to whether better cooperation with the Education Directorate could increase production and reduce production time on Sami learning materials. I think this is a very important assessment to take, because it's not acceptable that so many children who go to Sami schools don't have enough education. As far as the Loan Fund is concerned, it is most important for this government to bring down the interest rate for everyone, and to ensure that everyone comes out to work. Now it takes between three and six months for interest to change — whether it changes or it changes. Had Right got what they wanted in their proposal, there would be many students today who would have experienced an interest rate charge just before Christmas. With today's system, one could have a long-term and predictability both when interest rates are going to rise and when it is going to fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1514	Not surprisingly, today we have heard a lot about cutting in higher education. We have heard this repeated through several articles over the years. As I said in my first post, the numbers show something different. But what is alarming about the constant repetitions from the opposition is that those who make the criticism do not themselves make sure to add even more money into their budgets for research and higher education. All parties have the same financial framework within which to prioritise. The Progress Party even has 30 billion extra crowns to play with. But I don't see any special offensive bets beyond ours from any of the opposition parties. In the Christian People's Party I can't see any addition at all, for example. to basic appropriations for higher education. The opposition's taking our numbers and adding a little bit more. So I wonder if the expectations of us that constitute the red-green majority are higher than the expectations of the opposition itself. This is interesting. Interestingly, it's also interesting to see where the cuts are coming, perhaps especially the part left. In one area, however, I would say that I fully agree with the Christian People's Party: the importance of investing in high school. These are important years for young people, and many lose the motivation for schooling these years. Many fall off their feet the years they go to high school. This is why the Labour Party also wants even more attention to be paid to secondary school. During this period we have introduced a new subject, namely educational choices. This course gives students taste in high school and in the workplace. This subject must be further developed. We have also shared the social educational counselling and vocational guidance, in order to improve the quality of counselling for young people, so that they can choose the right path in high school and for life. In the budget for next year, the bulk of the population also strengthens career centres, precisely to improve the skills of counselling services, and especially in secondary schools. I want to signal that the Workers' Party in the future will have increased attention to the secondary school with new messages of competence. We are sure that increasing efforts in the years in which young people go to high school will prevent high school drop-outs, thus giving young people a better start to adult life. The Minister of Knowledge has also clearly said that he will be even more concerned with the high school in the coming days. Therefore, I am sure that this school will receive the increased attention that the Christian People's Party calls for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1529	The representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide criticises the representatives of the Workers' Party for a language that does not belong in this room. But one thing is black-painting schools, something quite different is black-painting the opponents' policies. But let me give an example of bulldozer policy led by the previous government with former Minister of Education Kristin Clemet at the head – the so-called Freekole Act. If all the student seats approved by the previous government had been put into service, it would have meant an increase of approx. 6 800 pupils in primary and about 15 000 higher education places. In practice, this means an increase of 150 pst. in secondary and 50 pst. at primary level. In Tromsø alone, there were applications for 1,100 new private places in secondary school, and in Rogaland the plan was that as much as 20 pst. of the county's secondary schools would become private. Even the Right in Rogaland was against this. But in the Right Central they were so privatized that they despite their ideals of local autonomy. This called the state politicians a dramatic overnight conversion. I call it bulldozer policy. It's not just in Rogaland and in Troms that high school had changed. The training provision in Norway had been drastically changed if this had been implemented. In the summer, it was discovered that John Bauer schools in Oslo and Bergen had to pay back SEK 7.3 million. kr in State aid, inter alia because the schools had circumvented the ban on dividends. There is no reason to believe that John Bauer, who operates commercially in Sweden, establishes himself in Norway to be kind. The dividend practices they use are a clear group policy, and we will only see more of that if the right-hand side's desire for private school leave would become a reality again. If the previous government had continued, there would have been many more than 150 students who had lost their school places. Will the Right, if they come into position after the election to next year, introduce a law of free school? Will it be opened to take school money from the students? And will it be possible for the schools to make dividends? Everyone knows that the Progress Party has a more liberal view of this than the Right has before. What will happen if the Party of Advancement and the Right are to rule together? With regard to Dørum's second posts, it was interesting to hear that Oslo schools are a good example of Left's school policy. But with the proposal from the time the Left was in government, we would have had a much bigger feature of commercial schools than what we see in Oslo today. Has Left changed its mind about the private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1542	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1545	To the representative Gerd Janne Kristoffersen: The left has re-prioritized SEK 1.6 billion for research. It's in our budget. That's a lot. We've done it all over this magnification period. The government is in the process of resuming the investment we had in the Research Fund at the beginning of the period. When it comes to school, State Council Solohjell has clearly outlined it: the left wants more money to get more teachers. That's not the government's priority. The left will receive systematic further training for more teachers. It doesn't prioritize the government, because it's a broad priority across the field. Governments know how to get results – among other things. by referring to Oslo School, as I have said. Of course, I'm not surprised that an SV doesn't have the slightest understanding to ensure jobs, or that active owners and people who think it's an honor to create a job and create a job for others are needed. So that an SV doesn't understand why the inheritance fee is a point – this is the whole basic political difference! Even in a time of crisis when we need to secure jobs, we need to take care of those who also create jobs. At least I hope that the majority of the government does not share the SV's view of active owners. Employment is going badly on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1554	The representative Anders Anundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1557	The representative Ljunggren expressed the usual anti-privatisation allergy of the Workers' Party. But I think the representative might want to make sure that at least the schools that are currently allowed under the private school law are not compared to another private school that has made mistakes. Everyone agrees not to run school that way. But the representative asked a question that I think it is relevant to answer, namely how will it be with the Advance Party and the Right in the Government. It'll be very good! But what I took the floor for was to say that we are very concerned that there are problems with calculating and reading skills in basic training. I got a feeling during the intervention by the representative Kristoffersen that it might not be very good in this room, either. The Progress Party has then scientifically proposed nearly DKK 1 billion for higher education in its alternative budget and NOK 28 billion more for the Research Fund. If it's small money, I don't understand why the government can't support those proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1566	The representative, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1569	I must also ask Gerd Janne Kristoffersen to read the budget statement. She will then see that we are increasing our investment in research and higher education by 750 million, respectively. kr over the frame area 16 plus nearly 500 million. kr in increased tax FUNN rates. These are important measures. At the end of a budget debate, the representatives of the government parties always want to talk about fresh oils, and this day is no exception. But I think the government parties are losing the opportunity to ask the interesting question: how has the emergency braking rate in the case of health schools improved the public school? It is still the case that Norwegian students are poor at international surveys, whether there was a very small rise in one of the TIMSS areas this time. We've seen that the public school is the victim of massive closures. In the ski, more schools are to be laid down. Forty years of teacher’s years are being laid aside. In red-green Trondheim, three schools are to be laid down. Last November, Bård Vegar Solhjell sent out a press release where he was concerned about the school closures. These are things that happen under red-green rule, and that are also an example of the fact that the public school hasn't improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1579	I don't hear so many people wanting Kristin Clemet back as Minister of Education and Erna Solberg back as Minister of Municipality, and I get that so far. When the representative Eriksen Soreide talks about spin-off, that's right. The previous government did a reverse operation, but it was a reverse operation for the worse. I can mention some things. National tests were, for the first time, very bad, and not anchored either by students or teachers, so that there was a student strike, there was a teacher uprising, etc. It was one of the areas where there was a spin-off by not anchoring the development of the school with them as the actual player with the school. A reverse operation was carried out in connection with the privatisation of the school. If we had not received a red-green government in the autumn of 2005, we would have had an estimated 20,000 more private schools in higher education. Now we see how it's gone with some of those schools. Bauer School is an excellent example in that way. One might wonder if it is the schools that will be able to re-establish themselves freely, if the Right Party and the Advance Party gain power after the election. Fewer teachers – there was a clear trend towards fewer teachers. It's not that strange, because of the poorer local economy, but now it's flattened out. We could wish for more teachers – it has to be said – but we saw a very negative development when it came to the teacher's density under the previous government. Then the previous government also stopped free learning material. It was also a turnaround – not so pleasant for those who felt that this reform was about to be introduced. It is a spin-off that has been announced in this debate too, because the opposition comes to power, they will take free lessons from the students. Then there was another spin. There was less student welfare – less scholarships and loans to the students, for this was not regulated. However, the previous Minister of Education has regretted this, and that is a good thing. I don't know if they've planned a similar reverse operation if they come to the power of the harvest. It might be doubtful, they might have learned a little bit from this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1594	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1597	When it comes to strengthening higher education, we've re-entered funds in view of the rest cut over several years – this sector would look completely different if it had been a Christian People's Party that had ruled. In addition, we ask that the case for compensation of salary and pension costs be resolved as soon as possible, at the latest as revised in 2009, which will provide additional space in relation to basic funding. We are equalising the differences between old and new universities, we have strengthened the Research Fund and the SkattenFUNN scheme. In addition, in our budget we have pointed to solutions for some private institutions that have come out extremely unfortunate under this government. Since that is the last time I get the floor: I am pleased with the promise of democracy reform, I am pleased with the promise to look at the situation of the FUG, at the training of faith, at high school and at the University of Agder and at the University of Stavanger. The rift between the right and the left will find its good solution in the center, and there is a Christian People's Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1608	The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, has also spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1611	As Freddy de Ruiter approaches the pulpit, we all fear the outcome, and there was a lot to answer. I don't reach everything in one minute. On the study support, I can say: we have given priority to full funding for the Quality Reform. This government has done the opposite – and that must be a priority. Now, as far as textbooks are concerned, I think that we should also start looking at how we can make arrangements that are perfectly sound in relation to social cohesion. At least that's not the method you're using right now. Now there will probably still be a debate – maybe! So a little bit back to Clement and Solberg. I think a lot of people want Kristin Clemet back in education policy. And after the year we now go into – unless the crisis package is enormous – I think many people are going to want Erna Solberg back to the Ministry of Local Affairs. For the spouse! For the spouse of the way the red-green government is now flying around and spreading expectations, without financing them, one should look for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1622	The representative Freddy de Ruiter has now spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1625	The last words have not been said – that’s not what is sometimes said! A few comments to the representative Gundersen. In the case of the local economy, we have granted 28.6 billion kroner. I can say that with the lag we had after the previous government, we have to continue that job. And I'm absolutely sure we're going to do that. We have signaled to the municipalities that they will be compensated for any tax failure next year. There's something that matters a lot. The interest-rate compensation scheme is important, and we have notified the municipalities that they will receive funding for construction so that we can keep employment at a good level next year, during the financial crisis. So we do a lot in relation to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1636	I also need to comment on a few things. Not in the last post now, but in an article earlier, the representative Gundersen went so far as to say that the Right had the credit of much good that has happened in Norwegian school, and in the debate they then tried to shift the blame for bad results to the sitting government. It is good to see that the representatives from the Right have good confidence. There is one of the same thing that is reflected in the international studies. Norwegian students have high confidence, but they could score better on professional results. I guess that also applies in part to the right hand side. In the past, I received a comment about the opposition that cracks or does not crack, as a matter of fact. I think the view of hourly expansion is a good example of the cracking of the opposition. And if you listen to the representative Dørum, he has a slightly different view than the representative Anundsen of equality between the parties. It's okay for me that the opposition cracks, that's fine. I just pointed it out, and it says well when the representative Anundsen needed to comment on it. The representative Eriksen Soreide asked us to talk nice and honest about what the Bondevik II government actually did. That is exactly what I did when I pointed out in my post that there was no increase in student support, fewer new student housing and that free learning material was removed. The facts do not come from the representative Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1647	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1663	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1467]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1679	No one has asked for the floor, but a proposal should be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1682	That's absolutely correct. I would like, on behalf of the rapporteurs, to address the proposal mentioned in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1689	The representative, Ms Soreide, has taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1467]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1707	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1470]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1723	No one has asked for the floor. State Council Trond Giske overburdened 2 kgl. [[See page 1470]] [[see Unit]] propositions Thorbjørn Jagland reinstated here the president's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1739	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1763	During the debate, 47 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-22, from Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 23-25, by Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposals No. 26 and 27, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 28, from Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 29-42, by Anders Anundsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 43, by Ine Marie Eriksen Søreide, on behalf of the Right and Left motion No. 44, by Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 45 and 46, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 47, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1808	The proposals are then put to the vote. 45 and 46, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1831	President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 44, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to link the income limit for what students can earn without shortening the study support against the basic amount of the population’s money. The limit shall be set to 2 G’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1846	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 43, from the right and left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the 2009 Revised National Budget, to convert the lending scheme for learning resources into a well-tested grant scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1862	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 29–42, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1946	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the right, from the Christian people, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norway’s veterinary college is allocated earmarked planning resources for the comprehensive planning process facing the institution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1962	The proposals are then put to the vote. 26 and 27, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e1984	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23–25, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e2011	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-22, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e2137	Before we take the vote up to voting time, the President will make three corrections to the motion for a resolution. This applies to: cap. 272 item 72, which is to be reduced by 266 000 kroner. The correct sum will then be NOK 52 744 000. 275 item 72 shall be increased by 266 000 kroner. The correct sum will then be NOK 9 694 000. 281 heading 79. The correct sum shall be NOK 287,089000.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e6063	The President has understood that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will oppose the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e6271	During the debate, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which reads: ‘Chap. Item 228, item 70 Private schools entitled to government grants, estimate appropriations, reduced by NOK 10 400000.» The President will draw attention to that action. 231 of the draft resolution will not be contested here as this chapter will be dealt with in a separate position of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e7239	The President will first let there be a vote between the committee's vote on the motion for a resolution. 228 and the proposal of the Party of Advances, the Right Party, the Christian Party, and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e7252	There will be a vote on other chapters under expenditure and revenue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e7453	A vote will be put to the vote on the proposal by Mr Dagrun Eriksen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 20 November 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to improve the financial conditions of pregnant women who do not have parental leave rights in relation to working life by stepping up the single payment for pregnant women to 2 G.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-12.ana.ud2473e7511	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
