ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e41	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e50	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation on the consensus on the purpose paragraph, and not least what I see as a very good result. The Housing Committee provided a good basis for the Committee's work on the new purpose paragraph in view of the values on which school and school education and school activities should be based, such as respect for human dignity, freedom of spirit, closeness, equivalency and solidarity. The Housing Committee found its agreement, and then it was also important that the Stortinget and the Committee found their agreement. The right is pleased that the lots on the Stortinget could agree on the content of the Paragraph of Purpose. Stability and tranquillity around the purpose of the school are important so that there are no continuous political fluctuations in party membership. The paragraph we are adopting today is solid and is practical. Because there is a significant point that a purpose paragraph anno 2008 has such a high recognition that it becomes relevant in the school’s work. There is a happy development from the Right that the debate on the school's purpose paragraph has, in a very short time, gone from being a debate on whether or not we should have a purpose paragraph to becoming a debate on the content of the paragraph. I believe that the committee has succeeded in designing a purpose paragraph that will be perceived as clear and inclusive, while saying something about the values and traditions of our society. There has been a long process in the committee. I think it was a point that the committee took some extra time when we realized that it was possible to reach an agreement. We're very pleased with the result from the right. There were two issues in particular. The right was concerned when we went into the discussion about the purpose paragraph. First of all, we wanted the purpose paragraph to have a clearer value anchor than it was supposed to be. The second was that we wanted to clarify the parental role and the school's cooperation with the home. In the new purpose paragraph, values such as respect for human dignity and nature, freedom of mind, neighbourly love, forgiveness, equivalency and solidarity are central. It is clarified in the purpose paragraph that we are to adopt today, that education in school is to be based on values of Christian heritage and tradition and humanistic heritage and tradition. These values are also expressed in different religions and ways of life and in human rights. We put in the purpose paragraph emphasis on what unites us as a society. The objective paragraph shall not merely give a snapshot of today's society. It's important to know your history and your culture to know who you are. The safer you are on your own anchoring, the more open you are to meet what is new, different and perhaps even challenging for yourself. The cultural heritage is not a static one. It develops and changes. But a living cultural heritage depends on building on something, building on the notions, thoughts and roots that have shaped it. If not, it doesn't make sense to talk about cultural heritage. At the same time, it is important that the purpose is to indicate values that are important today and in the future. It is an important clarification that the school should not give ‘a Christian and moral set-up’ as it says in today’s purpose paragraph. But there's no disagreement between the parties here either. There has been no theme. All the parties wanted that formulation to go away, and that, in our opinion, makes a good sense. To the right, it is important to highlight our national cultural heritage. In today’s society, a purpose paragraph must meet the need for a safe value anchoring of students, while at the same time stressing the opportunities and challenges we have in terms of diversity and pluralism. The increased diversity of society makes new demands to live in mutual respect and tolerance. It's precisely in such a context that it's important to know its history. There's a misunderstanding of tolerance if you're working all the time to deplete your cultural heritage. It only creates increased confusion of value in society. In a pluralistic society, it is important to know one's own identity and belonging, because then one has much better prerequisites for dealing with the new. In the government's proposal for a new purpose, the cooperation between home and school was located at the very last. We quickly agreed in the discussions that we wanted to make it clearer. It was therefore important for the Right to make it visible that parents are an important actor, a valuable and close partner to the school, which, together with the other opposition parties and government parties, we managed to get better clarity in the setting. In my opinion, it is a great and happy day when we are now able to adopt a purpose paragraph that all parties are fully behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e84	This is a day of joy. When the Committee can present a unanimous position to the Stortinget on a new school purpose paragraph, it was not quite obvious a short time ago. I could read in the newspapers some time ago that I, as a red-green politician, apparently was involved in a project that was aimed at dechristening Norway, and that the next goal of this project was to remove the cross in the Norwegian flag. This was the trust elected in the Christian People's Party that had written in a reader's letter. It's a record bomb. Sometimes one has to put such an outcome behind it, but I have to admit that it is not always as easy to negotiate when such an indication is at the heart of it. But it is especially gratifying that all the political parties were able to come to an agreement on such an important matter as the purpose paragraph is. The chairman of the Committee and the rapporteur of the matter have, to this extent, been concerned with the elements covered by the purpose paragraph. I would also like to refer to the position itself, which is well-worded and gives a very good description of what the Committee focuses on in this matter. The starting point for the Committee's consideration of the matter was very good. We all agreed that the paragraph should be amended, we had a solid proposal from the Housing Committee on the table, and the proposal from the Government had been at broad consultation. In addition, the Committee carried out a consultation. We all recognize that it is high time that we changed or renewed the purpose paragraph, especially because what was going on giving the students a Christian and moral appointment, had in many ways expired. In addition, on a general basis, I think that the old paragraph had a more retrospective character than the one we have for treatment today. The new paragraph is more forward-looking in form and has new elements that largely confirm this. Let me do a couple of examples. Perhaps the most important reason why we had now come to a point in history where we had to change the purpose paragraph is that the society of which we are part has been substantially changed by the fact that we have now become a so-called pluralist society – multicultural, multireligious and exciting. We had to give this space in the new paragraph. With it – I had almost said – the natural focus of environmental issues has been given today, where we are daily reminded of how important it is to take was on nature, it is good that this too has got its place in the paragraph. We must not deprive future generations of the knowledge of the Christian cultural heritage, it is called, and that is true. It is embedded in history, in literature, in art and in philosophy. This is hard to avoid and something we shouldn't give up on. We learn about Christian cultural heritage in subjects such as Norwegian, history and, not least, social sciences and perhaps also in linguistics and even in natural sciences. And it is these subjects that deal with the knowledgeable culture in historical light. I hope that not least the children or students appreciate that there is a broad consensus on the basic goals and values on which the school will build its business. Let me remind you that this paragraph is very suitable as a discussion theme in school. In my opinion, the paragraph itself contributes to the possibility of reflection. We have to have a purpose paragraph that includes all the students, and that's in line with the society we live in. That's what we've got. The school-home collaboration has had a central place in the old paragraph. This we want to continue in the new, but point out at the same time that we want the school to gain more knowledge about the resource that parents are using, of course. This is for the good of all. Let me then stop where I started, by expressing joy over the consensus we have managed to achieve in this matter. It turns out time after time that we're able to get broad settlements in this room. Examples are environmental policy, older people's agreement, state and church and now: the foundation of the school. This shows good political craftsmanship, but it also shows that, in spite of the majority in the Storting, the government parties want to achieve broad settlements, so that matters are well founded and signal calm and stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e114	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. There has been a long way to the decision that Odelstinget will take later today, and many thorough processes are making their decision today. There has been a cross-political consensus that the current school destination paragraph is ripe for some modernisation, but there has been considerable political disagreement as to the extent to which the section renovation would take place. We all know the composition and conclusions of the Housing Committee. That the conclusions of the Housing Committee were finally unanimous was probably the result of a comprehensive mission where the expectation of agreement was very high. However, it is not that a unanimous investigation committee automatically abdicates the political process. However, it has been important to try to find a purpose for the school that can last over time, so that stability can be expected around the school's objectives. It was so difficult at first, but eventually new doors opened for inter-party conversations in order to try to find an agreed solution. In this connection, I would like to thank in particular the Christian People's Party and the Right for the cooperation we have had, where we have first gone a few rounds between ourselves, and then had talks with the government parties. In that way, I think we got to the movement that was very important for the school's value anchoring. I also think it is in place to thank the government parties and the government council for the cooperation, because it is quite obvious that, despite the fact that it was new and nee tough thanks, real will to move from the government parties was a clear prerequisite for finding the solution that is on the table today. For the Advancement Party, it was important to ensure a continued clear value anchoring in the Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition. This has been achieved by the fact that the premiscuous provider of the values on which the school is to be based is clearly the Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition. At the same time, it is important to ensure that the purpose is not exclusive, so it is pointed out that these values are also found in other religions and life views. In general, the Progress Party believes that there is something positive about talking about how our nation has become like it, not only in relation to the importance of Christianity for the society we see around us today, but also in that the national cultural heritage is ensured a prominent position in the purpose paragraph. Although Norway today looks different than just a few centuries ago, it is still important to focus on what unites us as a nation; first of all, the national cultural heritage, isped international influence over time. It has also been very important for us to be clear on the importance of cooperation between home and school. The party of progress will not have a school that will live its own life without the influence of home. It is still a fundamental premise that parents are responsible for their children. A prerequisite for taking parents and supervisors seriously is a systematic cooperation process between home and school. This cooperation is now central to the new objective. As you can see, there is a specific requirement for actual cooperation, but it also needs to be seen as part of the school's value base. It's important to establish permanent systems, where parents have a naturally included space. After it became known that all the parties on the Storting had reached an agreement on the purpose paragraph, some members of the Housing Committee expressed criticism and almost some kind of indignantity that politicians did something different than the public investigation committee had hoped, or suggested. It is clear that there have been significant changes in the content and arrangements of the intended purpose following the political negotiations. I believe, however, to remember a statement in connection with the hearing on a new purpose paragraph at school. It went about like this: now the Housing Committee has found its agreement, now the politicians have to find their own. I guess that's what we've done. Although I have great respect for the work done by the Housing Committee, I allow myself and the Advance Party to believe that the result of this political consensus was far better than the attitude of the Housing Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e144	From the City School Act of 1848, the Norwegian school has been required to help the home to give the students a Christian assignment. Today's purpose paragraph, which will soon be history, begins as follows: ‘The primary school, in cooperation and understanding with the home, shall help to provide students with a Christian and moral code.’ Reports from schools have been that today's purpose paragraph has been asleep in many schools. It has no or little function for the school's activities. In other schools it has acted opposite, as a legitimacy of a clear Christian influence on the business. The purpose paragraph has provided room for different practices, both from school to school, and within each school. SV is very pleased that all parties on the Storting have agreed to replace the Christian purpose paragraph with a life-vision neutral basis for the training, based on common values – what connects us, what includes, and what shows that everyone has common values on which we are based. This is expressed both in Christianity and in other religions and in the outlook on life, and it is based on our human rights. The new purpose paragraph states: ‘The training shall be based on fundamental values of Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition, such as respect for human dignity and nature, on freedom of the spirit, love, forgiveness, equality and solidarity, values which are also reflected in different religions and views of life and which are anchored in human rights.’ Since the new purpose paragraph is a reconciliation between all the parties on the Stortinget, the important principle of this is that life-vision neutrality will remain in the future, and will give a clear signal to all municipalities and schools that this is a purpose paragraph that remains and must be followed up. The Housing Committee presented its position – Purpose of the future – in June 2007. The selection was broadly composed of representatives from many different religious and life views. They came up with a unanimous position on a life-vision neutral purpose paragraph. This has been important for the agreement that we have reached, and has been leading the deal that all the parties on the Storting have agreed on. It's an open and inclusive purpose paragraph. I would also like to refer to what is in the new paragraph of purpose that will be adopted now, which deals with climate. The climate challenge is the biggest challenge we face. In the new purpose section, you are very clear on that challenge, and that it is the school's task to address it. It states that students and apprentices should learn to think critically and act ethically and environmentally consciously, and that they should have a share of responsibility and a right to participation. This is a purpose paragraph where all teachers, students and parents can say that this is my purpose paragraph. It is a purpose paragraph that is relevant to the work done by the school and relevant to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e167	The Christian People's Party is extremely pleased that the purpose paragraph in the school has been clearly anchored in Christian and humanistic values, and that the crucial role of parents in the education of their own children has been given a stronger emphasis. At the same time, it is also important for us that the paragraph includes all children, regardless of their background. It is a demanding balance, but it now has the bulks clearly in common. It's a good work that was done by the committee, even though we started a little late. The backbone of this matter is that in the last three years there has been a lot of anxiety and uncertainty about what place the Christian cultural heritage should have in our society. Now this turmoil is cleared by the road both in the Constitution and in the school's purpose paragraph. The size has taken the job of determining what purpose paragraph we should have for the future, and has determined that training should be based on basic values in Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition. It says respect. When the Government presented its proposal for a new paragraph of purpose, the Christian People’s Party felt that it needed a clearer anchor in Christian and humanistic values. In addition, the crucial role of parents in the education of their own children had to be emphasised. To put it another way, since we're approaching Christmas, we want a stronger emphasis on both Jesus and the parents Joseph and Mary. Without this in place, there could be no broad consensus in Stortinget on the school's purpose paragraph. In the government's proposal, a number of values were framed on which the school was to be based – good values – and then some directions were mentioned where these values had been expressed. In this way, the paragraph did not reflect the central and special place of Christianity for our country. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to maintain Christianity as a key to interpreting the values that are otherwise used in the paragraph. First, we say to build on "basic values of Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition", and then mention the values, that one also finds them in different religions, and that they are anchored in human rights. We do not disagree that other religions have important values in themselves that have helped shape our society. But in our nation these values have been interpreted and justified through Christianity. This historical reality is now reflected in the school's purpose paragraph. That we have also expanded the values with respect for nature, as Lena Jensen said, and forgiveness, we are pleased. These are two values that have stood strong in our tradition. In addition, there has also been a further strengthening of the role of our national cultural heritage: ‘Training shall contribute to the deepening of knowledge and understanding of the national cultural heritage and our common international cultural tradition.’ And at the same time: ‘The training shall provide insight into cultural inadequacies and show respect for the individual’s over-interpretation.’ We believe the paragraph is thus not a breach of, but an extension of, today's values. The second difference concerns the role of parents in the education of their own children. In the government’s proposal, cooperation between home and school was at the very last, so that it appeared more like a rule of procedure. But now this has moved completely forward and reinforced by the word «understanding» as a basis for the school's activities: ‘Training in school and apprenticeships shall, in cooperation and understanding with the world, open doors to the world and the future and provide students and learners with historical and cultural insight and anchoring.’ Thus, the anchoring of Christian and humanistic values has been made clear, and the role of parents in the education of their own children has been raised and stressed. The Christian People's Party does not want Norway to be neutral in terms of key elements of our own heritage. One of the school's tasks is to manage a national cultural heritage to be shared by all children and young people. It is about building up and developing a common cultural identity, while showing openness and tolerance to different cultural and religious groups and individuals. Should the school be able to manage the national cultural heritage, a clear purpose paragraph is important. There has been a discussion about whether this is a life-vision neutral paragraph or not. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it is neutral in that way that all children, regardless of their background, should be able to find their place and role in the school on which we are to stand together. But life's vision is neutral in relation to our legacy, we believe that this paragraph is not. It is clear in view of the Christian and humanistic cultural heritage that has helped shape our society through generations. I would like to thank all the partners for their constructive and good cooperation. We believe that the school now gets a tool that could be used in a good and appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e217	The centre part is occupied by values. We think it's right that society should have a value anchor, a anchor that goes under respect for human dignity, and at the same time says something about the relationships between us human beings, in the form of peace of mind, love of neighbor, equivalency and solidarity. We must have a value anchor that ensures that as a society we do not drift around with wind and weather in varying times, but that we have something that stands firm and that is permanent, a anchor that puts us into history in time and space, where we, as an individual, are born, live our lives and die – and there are new ones – but there are some values that survive us, values that gather us about something greater than ourselves, and that give meaning to life. We have such a anchor in the Christian and humanistic value that our law is also based on, and in human rights. We also find the same values in other views of life and religions. The case spokesperson, who presented the case in a good way, said it very correctly. Security for our own culture, heritage and values also makes us stronger in meeting others and more tolerant and open when it comes to others' values and outlook on life. We assure today that the school also in the future has such an anchor fast. Children and young people should learn and know that values are something more than the money we need to buy what we need and don't need: axes as a path and fall into the value of the world's stock exchanges, new buyers, savings, tax lists, wage fighting and pensions. It's particularly important in our part of the world, where we've experienced an enormous increase in wealth, and where many of us have such great material values that we can have a consumption that is more than a large part of the world's population will ever have. The earth does not have enough resources for all humans to have as much consumption as we do. Therefore, the environmental perspective in the paragraph is also important. Value anchoring is important for exactly us, for exactly Norway and for our part of the world. Furthermore, the paragraph contains important principles such as democracy and equality and promotes important values such as creators, engagement and explorers. Not least, it's important that our responsibility for the nature we live in is the distance below. Understanding the principle of sustainability and ecological balance is important for everyone in the time we live in, just as it has been for humans at all times. It is also important that the relationship between home and school is clarified. Parents' commitment to their children's schooling is important in order to close their children's education. It was right to change this paragraph now. We have to take heights to be a society where people with different views of life, religions and cultural backgrounds are to live side by side. And it's important to have a phrase in the paragraph that one can identify with, but it's still important that the core stands firm, simply anchored in value. It is particularly gratifying that a consensual committee is in favour of a joint proposal to the Stortinget. It makes the new paragraph robust and able to stand over time. The basis for the new paragraph was laid in the Housing Selection. The selection was broadly composed in terms of both political stand and outlook, and it has done a great deal of work. The members of the selection were willing to put aside their principal positions and gather on a unified proposal. The preparatory work has been crucial for the work that has been done in the Committee. The Committee has further led to the tradition of cooperation, which has led to a cross-political settlement on what has been presented to the Stortinget today, an inclusive and robust purpose paragraph, with a clear value anchor, a future paragraph. It's an important saying, not least for us who are strong followers of a good public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e232	Norwegian society is characterized by Christian and humanistic values and traditions. Out of such traditions come values that are contained in the proposal for a modified purpose paragraph, which we are discussing today: respect for human dignity, management responsibility towards nature, freedom of mind, love of neighbour, forgiveness, equivalency and solidarity. These values are also found in other religions, and we find them in human rights. Now that the Committee has agreed to bring this paragraph together with all its terms, it is because one has had a willingness to do so. There is reason to thank those who have worked on this, including the government representatives and the state council, for there will never be a compromise without everyone's will. I think that some of the background to a compromise was that we had a tough discussion about the religion that almost came to an end, where we got close. And it is a fact that we reached a compromise on a broad basis in the Grand Duchy on the state church system and the way forward. Some believe that such compromises are a weakness of Norwegian democracy. I don't mean it. I believe that there is a way to create a community that allows us to live with a consciousness that we know where we come from, but that at the same time, where we go, we have a diversity. There are some -- I don't think they're sitting here in the hall -- who have the impression that recognizing the basic values of the Western tradition of ideas, of the Western Christian and humanist tradition of values, is the same as being in some kind of brilliant life. It's not. Everyone who knows the evolution of the Christian and humanist culture tradition knows that it is created with excitement and excitement. This is sometimes the case, for example, with these tensions. Through this tradition it was possible to link the ideals of antiquity through Christianity, which came in through the Roman Empire, with renaissance, and through renaissance it was possible to get a reformation that made it possible for religion and science to live side by side in our part of the world. That whole story is a story that's insanely strong, about how to stand under tension, live under tension, because it's just building up the values I've listed instead. The left is aware that we find these values in other religions. That's why the paragraph says it's natural. We are also aware that they are in human rights. But there is reason to remember, at a time when not everyone is as happy in history and history, that the human rights – as I have said earlier in this Chamber – did not descend into a parachute on Manhattan in the late 1940s. There's roots behind this. To those who want to look for what to do in this section, I want to make a contribution. I would say that this paragraph is a rather strong connection to a strong upgrading of the history of the Norwegian school. It is a very strong call to take care of history, with its diversity. Any production of e.g. national heritage in history will provide knowledge that we have had minorities in Norway for a long time, that we had Germans in Røros, that we had people in Finnskogen, that we had Swedes in the Cases around 1900, and that these phenomena that we see around us today, we have had in Norwegian history all the time. Anyone who believes that cultural heritage is a one-dimensional size simplifies the entire history of Norway. In a country that has had tensions between high-church and low-church and between different language followers — and there are countries close to us in Europe that have not dealt with it as well — these tensions have been able to find the Community institutions at the same time. There are many lines in Norwegian society that justify the ability of Norway to live with tension and excitement in the context of the same society. There is reason to recall that Norway is a country where it is actually a council for religious and life views. Not many countries in the Western world have. And we actually have something as special as a Christian counsel that gathers about all the variations of the Christian view of life and its practical organization. It's not quite common either. But I think that is an expression of some of the things behind and in connection with today's debate: that we in Norway often manage to create meeting places with strength without wiping out what people stand for, but at the same time wiping out enough to meet. In the left's opinion, that's exactly what's part of the additional explanation that we're meeting in this paragraph. I'll give that dimension to that. Just as we are aware that we have roots, we can boldly meet others in a demanding dialogue. And the committee has said that one must know where one stands, to meet others. But we have to do it before, we dare to do it again, and making this paragraph is an expression of it. Once again as a summary: this is not just a powerful contribution to the subject of the school that is now called RLE – religion, view of life and ethics. This is also a powerful blow, a strong effort to ensure that the history subject also has a strengthened and significant place in the Norwegian school. We can't walk into a new era without roots, but with roots we can meet many.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e258	What is an unspoken word? There is rarely a broad consensus, and I find reason to congratulate the Committee, all the parties, on the fact that one has managed to agree on a new purpose paragraph. I think it is right to say that there is considerable frustration in Norwegian schools that the school can occasionally become a political fighter for conflicts that are actually about conditions outside the school, which are not for the benefit of the elephants and those who work and work in the school. I think it's important for a clear man to agree on basic questions, which this is really about, that's what's the point, the purpose, with our school and our basic training. It's important. I think I'd like to add that I also think that it might have been very difficult to arrive at a final result with a consensual collapse and a consensual committee, if it hadn't been possible for the Housing Committee to put forward a consensual proposal in the first round. Because around the question of the purpose paragraph, there has been a significant conflict in the past, and one could see that what had happened was that a NOU report was presented that represented only the many different, different visions and cemented conflicts. But it didn't happen. Through significant work, a consistent setting was presented that showed a clear direction. It made the government's work easier, and I'm completely overconfident that there's a significant reason why we now also have a consensual committee. I just want to say briefly that I'm very happy that we've got a new purpose paragraph. I think it points forward in many areas and is a modern and up-to-date purpose paragraph. I think it is worth noting that it is now very clear that ‘the students and the apprentices will develop knowledge, skill and attitudes’ – there is a broad view of what is necessary to learn in the school – ‘to master their lives and to participate in work and fellowship in society’. In other words, the point of the school is that one should be able to develop a broad set of attitudes, skills and knowledge in order to function as a human being and to be able to participate well in the labour market and in other communities that are important in society. It's also worth noting that in the same central section, it says that they're "to give rise to creators, commitment and exploration." I want to put a lot of emphasis on the fact that there's a view of elephants that are active, people act from the beginning of school. There are important values that you have to bring with you as a grown-up. Then, of course, it is also absolutely necessary that we replace the old Christian purpose paragraph with a life - vision neutral purpose paragraph. We're not going back any further than 1950, then just a little over 1 pst. of the population of Norway was born in another country — as late as 1950. Today, the population of immigrants in Norway is approx. 10 pst. In the city we're in now, there's around one of the four that have immigrant backgrounds. Many languages, many cultures and many different religions exist and meet in the Norwegian school. And life-vision-neutral means not the same thing as value-neutral, because this is a purpose paragraph based on values - on general values of which there is broad agreement, which are anchored in human rights, which is also part of the fundamental values of Christian and humanistic heritage and tradition, and which are expressed in different religions and views of life. It is this unity that enables us from now on to say that we have a purpose paragraph that is a broad political unity, which is modern and up-to-date, which has a modern view of what elephants are going to learn, of what is the purpose of the school, and which is life-vision neutral. I am pleased, and I would like to congratulate the Committee on a good job, which I believe is important for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e283	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 166]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e299	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five replies be given to the comments of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e308	The Ministry of Knowledge has submitted proposals for amendments to Section 1 of the Kinderhagen Act on the purpose. The bill from the department is based on the investigation from the Housing Committee. Although the selection provided a unanimous setting, it has nevertheless been demanding and took time to put in place agreed formulations here in Stortinget. So I am glad that today we are on target. With experience as a pedagogue, I will also express the positive signal effect it has, whether in kindergarten or in school, that we have the power to maintain a common platform as we now change its purpose so that it becomes more in line with social development. In kindergarten, the purpose paragraph has traditionally had an important function as an expression of society’s norms and values. It is also important that it is well within Norway’s obligations under international law. A number of premises were used for the work on the childcare and training subjects: The childcare provision shall be structured in the same way as the training destination. It shall contain many of the same elements adapted to the activities and characteristics of kindergarten and shall express the same value base. The dimensions shall be so short that they can be used as ‘placats’ in kindergartens, schools and educational establishments. The objectives shall specify, at a general level, the values of kindergarten, school and educational establishments and the contribution of institutions to the functioning and development of the individual and society. The language must be simple and understandable for most people. Access to private kindergartens and kindergartens owned or run by churches within the Norwegian Church has under the Children's Homes Act to lay down specific provisions on purposes, will be discussed in a later proposal. This proposition will also address other consequential changes to the new use paragraph for kindergartens. The Committee refers to the agreement concluded between the parties on 6 November 2008 and considers it natural that the provisions on childcare and training are based on the same premises. This will help to clarify both relationships and inequalities between kindergarten and training and to increase institutions' understanding of each other. A high level of coordination of the objectives of kindergarten and training can also contribute to greater coherence and coherence in the development and learning of children and young people. Kindergarten and school have a common responsibility to ensure good coherence and transition from kindergarten to school, so as to facilitate lifelong learning. The similarity of the provisions of the objective will contribute to this. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to commend the prudence and willingness of the various parties to come up with agreed formulations. The centre party is pleased that one has succeeded in putting in place a collection of purpose paragraphs – a paragraph that is not value neutral but which preserves an important aspect of the cultural anchoring of Norwegian society. A reference in the purpose paragraph to the intercultural and inter-religiousisation of values also ensures a broad legitimacy for the dissemination of value by kindergarten and school. The Committee considers that the proposal for new objectives is coherent and inclusive and adequately reflects the scope of the input of the hearing bodies. The new purpose of kindergarten will provide children with a solid platform for learning and building in kindergarten. The proposal is based on learning and formation being rooted in our historical, valueless Christian and humanistic heritage and cultural tradition. By simultaneously taking into account the values of human rights, the objective will be well suited to a modern, diverse society. The Committee would stress the importance of parental assistance and good cooperation between home and kindergarten. We would also point out that the self-esteem of childhood and the individual perspective are well preserved through, among other things. right of participation adapted to age and assumptions. Finally, I would like to refer the last part of the new joint proposal to Section 1 of the purpose for Kinderhagen. It is not as familiar as the introduction, which coincides with the school's purpose paragraph: ‘Children shall be given creative, wonder, and explored rank. They're going to learn to take care of themselves, each other and nature. Children shall develop basic knowledge and skills. They shall be entitled to participation adapted to age and assumptions. The nursery shall meet the children with confidence and respect and recognise the self-esteem of childhood. It shall contribute to well-being and joy in play and learning, and be a challenging and safe place for community and friendship. Kindergarten shall promote democracy and equality and shall counter all forms of discrimination.’;» With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e348	The Christian People's Party is well pleased that we have also made a good deal for the kindergarten, and that it is a total mass that today adopts a changed purpose paragraph. The new paragraph is, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, good, it's a collection, and it provides a good basis with its clear anchoring in the Christian and humanistic values. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Home Committee's premise that the objectives at an overall level should indicate the value base of the kindergarten. For the Christian People's Party, the clear value anchoring is important. At the same time, it is important for us that the paragraph also includes all children, regardless of their background. This balance sheet process has also been achieved here in common, with the wordings contained in the paragraph. I refer to the previous debate on the terms that are the same in the school and kindergarten paragraphs, and I'm not going to go into it a lot. But the Christian People's Party will underline an important element in the aims of the kindergartens that are not adopted by the Storing today. The third and fourth paragraphs of the current paragraph are not continued here. The Christian People's Party takes for granted that these consequential changes are coming, as the Council of State gave signals about in a letter to the Stortinget on 23 May this year. Individual kindergartens must still be able to lay down their own rules of belief and life in their own statutes. The provision that private kindergartens and kindergartens owned or run by private and non-profit institutions must be able to lay down specific provisions for life-seeking purposes in the statutes, and this possibility must be maintained. The Christian People's Party believes that this premise for diversity in the kindergarten sector is continuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e360	Everything I said instead of the process, both the work of the committee and the work of the housing selections, I will not repeat now, but only show that it also applies, of course, to the handling of the proceedings for new purposes for kindergarten. I would like to point out two things that I thought the new Kindergarten's purpose paragraph was very good. First of all, I thought it very clearly expresses what is the nature of the nursery, and what is different from the school. This paragraph indicates that childhood has a strong self-esteem, and one refers to the combination of play and learning on which the Norwegian nursery tradition is based. I think that all of us who have little kids, or who have to do with them, know that playing and learning are closely related to each other – in many ways there are two sides to the same thing. The Norwegian nursery tradition is based on the integration of care and games as well as learning and pedagogics in the same institution. But at the same time as a kindergarten gets its own, it's now a clear signal that kindergarten is the first part of the education cycle, that there's a close connection and transition between kindergarten and school, which is very important. Therefore, it has been important to have a purpose paragraph that is linked in form and content to the school's purpose paragraph, because kindergarten today is extremely important for small children as a first start to life, the first meeting of education both through play and learning. Once again, I would like to congratulate the Stortinget and the Committee on the work and agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e374	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 167]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e382	Odelstingen goes to voting in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e500	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e510	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e557	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e567	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05-lower.ana.ud1462e579	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before this meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
