ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e64	The representative of Vidar Bjørnstad, who has been authorized, has taken the seat again. The deputy representative of the state of Buskerud, Nina Mjøberg, has taken the seat. From the Workers' Group there is an application for sick leave for the representative of Hill-Marta Solberg from 27 May until further notice. The President proposes that this application be dealt with immediately and accepted - and sees it as agreed. From the first representative of the Nordland County, Knut Petter Torgersen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Hill-Marta Solberg, for reasons of well-being. The President proposes that this application should also be dealt with immediately and be accepted - and see it as agreed. Other alternates of the Nordland County, Gunnar Skjellvik, are called to attend the term of leave. - It's a note. Gunnar Skjellvik is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e99	The President will make suggestions that two Presidents are elected for the Storting meeting today and for the rest of the week in existence - and see it as agreed. The President will make suggestions on Anders Anundsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. "Other proposals were not preceded, and Anders Anundsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr were unitedly elected as seat president for the Stortinget meeting this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e115	On 5 February, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg decided to open proceedings against three Supreme Court judges. The background was that the judges, as members of the Committee on Arbitration, refused the resumption of a murder of Fritz Moen was wrongly condemned. A unanimous committee decided to open the case on the basis of the claims made in the Tore Sandberg report of 18 September 2006, and the fact that Fritz Moen was innocently convicted for two killings he had soned 18 years before. The Committee has examined the matter thoroughly and, in addition to the many documents already in the case, has obtained a reply from the three Supreme Court rulings and received comments from Tore Sandberg. The background for the examination of the control committee concerns the decision of the High Court of Justice of 14 October 2003 not to resume one of the two killings for which Fritz Moen was wrongly convicted and for which the zone was zoned. The Committee on Control does not deal with the whole of Fritz Moen's case as such and with the murder of the judiciary he was subjected to, but with the review of the resumption of the case by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. The murder of Fritz Moen is probably one of the most serious known in Norwegian justice, and will forever be a disgrace to our legal community. Fritz Moen was sentenced to 21 years in prison for killing two young women in Trondheim in the fall of 1976 and in the autumn of 1977 - two killed he had not committed. For the sake of order, let me stress: the three Supreme Court rulings that have been reported by Tore Sandberg have had nothing to do with the very murder of Fritz Moen. The background to the notification is that the three Supreme Court judgments Magnus Matningsdal, Eilert Stang Lund and Karin Bruzelius, in their capacity as members of the Supreme Court's Committee on Love, did not approve the resumption of the so-called Torunn case. This is the first time the Stortinget opens up after the new national court institute was changed a little over a year ago. I will therefore carry out a thorough review of the matter itself and its proceedings, and further account of the majority's views and position. The minority of the Committee will explain its views. The Committee of Dearest Targets accepted in doubt the resumption of the so-called Sigrid case, which led to Fritz Moen's subsequent acquittal. The Torunn case was dismissed only after a man on deathbed in December 2005 admitted to having committed both killings, both at Sigrid Heggheim and at Torunn Finstad. This happened approx. six months after Fritz Moen's death. As has been said, it is the first time that the Grand Duchy has to decide under the new provisions whether to enforce constitutional liability, including whether to request the Board of Directors of the Grand Duchy to carry out the necessary investigations in order to clarify the basis for such liability, as stated above. Law on the Procedure of the Court of Justice of 5 February 1932 No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Sandberg report concerns the treatment of the judges of a central part of a witness’s observation in the area of the scene and the assessment by the judges of the witness’s hearing a man and a woman speaking together. The notification concerns the first paragraph of Section 110 of the Criminal Act to act against better knowledge and/or to have shown gross insensibility in the service, cf. § 325 nr. 1st@item: inlistbox He also refers to the Liability Act, in particular § 17(c). On 20 February 2007, the Constitution of the Grand Duchy amended §§ 20, 30, 86 and 87. Amendments to the Law were also adopted on 5 February 1932. 1 on penalties for actions brought by national law, the Liability Act and the Law of 5 February 1932 No. 2 on the procedure of national courts, the National Courts Act. In addition, amendments were made to the Storting Rules of Procedure. Following the amendment of Section 86 of the Constitution, national courts may be instituted against members of the Supreme Court for: ‘criminal or other unlawful relationship, once they have breached their constitutional obligations’. Law 5 February 1932 No. 1 on penalties for actions brought by national law, provides for specific criminal provisions for those responsible for constitutional matters, i.e. judges of the Supreme Court, representatives of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and members of the Council of State. The general rules of the Criminal Code complement the Liability Act and thus apply in addition to the matters referred to in the Liability Act, as set out. § 1, second paragraph. Under Section 17 of the Liability Act, a member of the Supreme Court may be punished by fines or imprisonment for up to 10 years if he: ‘(a) provide advice or guidance to any party in a case which is in the hands of the Supreme Court or which may be in the interests of the Supreme Court; (b) or in any consideration; or provide advice or guidance in a matter which is contrary to the Basic Law; (c) or in its act of otherwise in the event of an act or omission does or contributes to anything contrary to the Constitution or legislation...’;» In principle, any action taken as part of the judicial activity of a Supreme Court judge will fall within the scope of the Court of Justice. On 13 December 2006, the Odelstingen decided to postpone the processing of the notification by Tore Sandberg until the sample appointed by the Government to investigate the criminal proceedings against Fritz Moen had given its opinion. I'll come back to the contents of this. By letter of 2 October 2007, the Presidency of the United Kingdom forwarded the notification to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, having regard to the new provisions of Section 12 of the Second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure of the United Kingdom. 10th@item: inlistbox Let me then go into the facts of the matter. The Committee has chosen to anonymise the presentation for the purposes of the witnesses concerned, which is the leading point of the notification. The same applies to the settings attachments. The witness, hereinafter referred to as A, and his spouse, hereinafter referred to as B, explained themselves to the police during the investigation, but not during the main proceedings of the Lawyers' Court. Actor dismissed those who testify, and the defender agreed to this, cf. Section 107 of the Decree of the Committee on Love. In Section 121 of the judgment, it is noted that although the court has a separate responsibility for the disclosure of the case, its position is an important element in the assessment of the importance of the evidence and therefore of the extent of the evidence. Sandberg argues that the three notified judges at the hearing: «in reality, the As Observation has moved out of the area of the site in spite of their having become aware of the As Police Declaration of 05.10.1977 and the Moen's request for resumption - they must have known that such movement of the observation out of the area of the site is not correct». [[where the sounds/voices came from]] He further points to the fact that the quotation from A.P.D., Section 115 of the Order, lacks a sentence, which, in his view, gives a false impression of the explanation set out in connection with the comments of the Committee on Love in Section 116. Sandberg has in his review reproduced the average of the witness As police statement on 5 October 1977. The Supreme Court has quoted from this in section 115 of the judgment. In the section, it is suggested that the witness heard a call about. 20 meters before the bridge, and that the cry was described as a “woman’s scream”. What I now repeat is from the police statement, and is not quoted in section 115: ‘Just like before they arrived at the bridge, approx. 20 meters, there's an opening in the three rows of approximately. 5-10 meters. When they were there, the witness also heard a shout. In the direction of the witness, this was on the right-hand side. This was a woman's scream. It seemed like a woman--about as if someone were being squirmed--and was quite powerful. Then they heard the talk. It sounded like there was a man and woman talking. It was not possible to distinguish the words properly. However, it seemed that the woman said something like "they see us" or something like that. Based on this, the witness believes that it is possible that the woman was not a trouser when the trousers say ‘they’ and not ‘they’. After a new scream, there were again ‘muggling’ voices. On the "muggling" to judge, the situation was not so serious, and the witness and his fiancée went on. They had then stopped between 1/2 and 1 minute. For the witness, it seemed that the screams and the "mumbling" came in from the shot roller coaster lying there. At least he thinks they came from that side of the river. [[urban side]] And here I am at the point that is central: The phrase ‘In the direction of the witness’ was not quoted on the right-hand side. The missing sentence assumes that witness A thought the woman terror came from the right side of the path in his direction, that is. from the south side of the path. According to Sandberg it is natural to conclude that he thought the scream came from the north side of the path. Witness A said that it was heard as the scream came from the Scots roller coaster, and the Lovely Committee notes that the Scots roller coaster is located on the north side of the path, cf. Section 116. Section 116 of the Order states: ‘The roller coaster is located on a lawn on the north side of the gangway and a line passing over the Stavne Bridge. Finstad was found on the south side - i.e. on the opposite side of the path." It is on this basis that the observations of Witness A are misrepresented and inaccurate in the opinion of the Committee on Love. Sandberg points out that an explanation from witness A has given him that A believed that the roller coaster was on the south side of the path, which was therefore wrong. Section 117 of the Women's Committee's report says that Witness B, who went with A, reported exactly the same place where they heard the female voice, but she meant to hear it from the south side of the path. The body of Torunn Finstad was found on the south side. Tore Sandberg’s notification of 18 September 2006 follows as Annex 1 to the suspension. As I said, the notification was first sent to Odelstinget, as it was under the Odelstinget as the prosecution authority in accordance with the applicable rules according to its contents. Sandberg argues that the effect of the conclusion of the Committee of Dearths in Section 116 is that As’s testimony is uninteresting in the killing of Torunn Finstad, as the observation would thus have been ‘moved’ out of the site area. Sandberg refers to the analysis of evidence, where the photo documentation of witness A clearly indicates that witness A points straight into the area south of the footpath and the line. It should also be noted that if the three judges had begun to quote from the A police statement a sentence earlier, the judges could not have drawn the conclusion they make in section 116. Sandberg argues that it must be decisive where the witness A himself thought the Scots roller coaster was. However, according to Sandberg, if the judges were to be in doubt as to what the witness put in the expression ‘Skotthyllbanen’, it would then have to be their duty to apply with witness A before they reached their conclusion. It wasn't done. Sandberg points out that the members of the Committee have committed crimes in criminal matters, whether they have known about the lack of sentence from the police statement and have deliberately omitted it without seeking to clarify it with the witness himself, or they have not known the sentence because they have failed to intervene in the police statement. In view of this, Sandberg claims that the judges may have violated the provisions of Section 110 of the Criminal Act on acting as judges against better knowledge, or as officials to show gross insensibility in the ministry, see paragraph 110. § 325 nr. 1st@item: inlistbox As I said, Sandberg also refers to the Liability Act, in particular § 17(c). In its notification, Sandberg requests the three Supreme Court judgments to be heard in order to determine whether the subjective debt requirement has been met. So far the review and the background of the notification. In the State Council on 8 September 2006, a sample was appointed to investigate the criminal case against Fritz Moen. The selection was led by Professor Henry John Mæland. The purpose of the investigation was to investigate why Moen was wrongly convicted, and to assess the need for changes in order to prevent false convictions in the future. The investigation was to cover the criminal proceedings against Fritz Moen from the beginning of the police investigation into the Borgarting Lawyers' Court of Justice on 24 August 2006. It follows from the mandate of the panel: ‘The courts have also been central to the criminal proceedings against Fritz Moen. Examination of independent courts of a government-appointed sample raises constitutional issues that need to be settled before the audit mandate can be completed at this point. The Ministry of Justice will make the necessary clarifications as soon as possible and return with an additional mandate to the Court Review Board.’.» By a new letter dated 22 November 2006, the sample was given an additional mandate. The letter mentions, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings ‘An examination of the role of the courts in the Fritz Moen cases must not appear as an attempt to challenge the judgments of the courts in breach of the constitutional and constitutional principle that the courts ultimately judge. In this context, it would be of great importance whether the investigation is directed against court decisions that have subsequently been repealed or amended within the judicial system or whether the investigation is directed against court decisions that are still effectively or formally pending. Moreover, consideration of the autonomy of the courts generally weighs more heavily the shorter the return of the court decisions in question. On the other hand, in order to draw as far as possible lessons from the investigation of criminal cases against Fritz Moen, it is important that the sample examines the role of the courts in the judgment of Fritz Moen in 1978 and 1981 in addition to the investigation of the police, the prosecution authority and the handling of cases by other actors. Against this background, the sample is also examined by Frosting Lawyers' Court of Justice on the criminal cases against Fritz Moen until the sentences of 1978 and 1981 respectively.' The additional mandate did not cover the judgment of the Lawyers’ Court of 12 February 2002 on the refusal to reopen both cases, nor the decision of the High Court of Appeal of 14 October 2003. The investigation by the sample investigating the criminal cases against Fritz Moen, NOU 2007:7 Fritz Moen and Norwegian criminal justice was presented on 25 June 2007. In the course of the inquiry, Minister of Justice Knut Storberget stated: ‘It is not possible to undo the injustices committed by society against Moen. But it is up to us, as a responsible legal society, to draw the most lessons out of this matter in order to avoid anything similar happening again. The selection report shows that serious errors have been made that have given a serious result.’» IN NOW 2007:7 witnesses A and B are referred to in several contexts. See paragraph 6.2.3, p. 152: ‘Tore Sandberg criticised in his 2000 evidence analysis that the witnesses B and A were abducted. According to Sandberg, these witnesses made “the most detailed observations – and thus the observations that... [were] densely tested against the killing site”.» The committee gives its opinion on the certification of A and B, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In an interview with A and B, the sample was informed that they were not sued for the main negotiation. The committee does not know whether the lieutenant in Porsanger received the request, and tried to sue them, but assume that B and A were not sued, and that this was why they were dismissed. For the sample, this raises the issue of both police and prosecution authorities making sufficient efforts to sue them, and whether it was proper during the main negotiation to dissuade them as witnesses. The committee assumes that the police, when the call was sent, used the addresses registered in the People's Register. The appeal was taken on 11 April 1978. That the application was first sent on 3 May, well four weeks after, is hardly unusual. The original dispatch of the application must therefore be presumed to have been duly substantiated. I sent the gentleman to Porsanger 15 days before they would give an explanation. Normally, this should also be sufficient to get them strung. The committee has not found the explanation why B and A were not sued. The committee finds no grounds for criticising the police and prosecution authorities for handling the case.When these witnesses were not sued, the actor opposed the choice of requesting the case or dismissed the witnesses.’ That's the last thing that happened. Finally, it appears that the sample does not find the A and B testimonies so central that they would have a significant impact on the assessment of evidence. The committee cannot therefore see that there is a basis for criticism of the actor of their resignation. It is clear from NOU 2007:7 point 4.9.2.2.6 that in an interview with the sample B confirmed her explanation during the 1977 hearings that she heard screams and voices right down the slope at the footpath. So the observation was not linked to the archer's path and the tray. Witness A did not state exactly where he heard screams from in 1977. In the resumption process, both Sandberg and the police have heard witness A about this. Sandberg concluded that A heard the sounds from the ‘high-current’ area. In an interview with the investigation committee, Witness A told me that he heard sounds from the archer's track and that it seemed like it was a piece from the path. Furthermore, on page 126 of the NOU: ‘The committee finds it uncertain whether A and B heard Torunn and the killer [[or anyone else in the area]] The Committee's decision of 14 October 2003 states: ‘In the Sigrid case, the Sjærmålsvariet found in doubt that the conditions for resumption under § 391(1) were met. 3 was not met, but the conditions under the second paragraph of § 392 were present. The last reason was that it was most likely that the biological traces found at the scene of the crime could not be traced back to Moen. [[seed and blood]] If, then, the biological traces were not derived from someone other than the perpetrator - which was found to be very unlikely by the Dearest Selection - the criminal evidence requirement was not met in the case of Moens.» So that was the Sigrid case. In the Torunn case, the claim for resumption did not lead to a resumption under Section 391 of the Criminal Procedures Act. 3 forwards. In relation to the second paragraph of § 392, the Committee on Foreign Affairs found that Moen’s repeated confessions in the case corresponded well with the findings of the place. Should the matter be reopened, this might be due to ‘the doubts as to the credibility of the confession which may have arisen from the resumption of the judgment in the Heggheim case’. In this assessment, the Committee on Love stressed that Moen's explanations had evolved differently in the two cases, and that the difference between police findings and Moen's explanations was less in the Torunn case. The Committee on Love further stressed that the situation of Moen was different in 1980 than in 1977, by having already been convicted in the Torunn case in 1980. The confession in the Torunn case was therefore considered to have greater credibility, and the demand for resumption did not, as I have said, lead to greater credibility. Today we know that this did not result in correctness. Fritz Moen was innocent in both the killings he was convicted of and for. The knowledge of the murder of the judiciary is very much to be thanked to Tore Sandberg. He has put down an expedient effort to get Fritz Moen released, which he greatly contributed to, and his book The Attack, which is about this matter, is shocking reading. Therefore, on behalf of Stortinget, let me thank Sandberg for the effort he has made to clean Fritz Moen. It's an effort of which there is great respect. In the course of the notification, the Audit Committee has been shown to have provided a misleading and erroneous reproduction of a witness observation by the High Court's Committee of Appeal in its opinion on the Torunn case. The three Supreme Court rulings go into two letters to the Committee on Self-Criticism, writing that the section on this observation ‘could have been a bit more elaborate’. In a new letter, they also wrote that the rendering of the witness observation has been given a somewhat ‘unclear design’. It is beyond doubt that the Committee on Lovely Targets has misrepresented the witness observation. However, an inaccurate description of a testimony does not in itself provide a basis for bringing an action for infringement of constitutional obligations. So this witness observation, which I have carefully reviewed, was not emphasized by the review committee that evaluated the Fritz Moen case, either in the case of law enforcement or by the Commission for the resumption of criminal proceedings. On this basis, it is not correct of Stortingen to place more emphasis on this testimony than what has been done in three previous proceedings of the case. There is also a basis for claiming, as the three Supreme Courts state in the letter to the Committee, that the evidence is complex. We, who represent the majority, will note that the observations of Witness A have been shown to be inaccurate and inaccurate in the Committee's opinion of 14 October 2003, but do not consider that this in itself provides a basis for criminal proceedings for breaches of constitutional obligations. On this basis, we have concluded that there is no basis for transmitting the case to the Swedish authorities. The majority of the Committee therefore proposes to impose the notification of the three Supreme Court judgments, setting the final line for one of the blackest chapters in Norwegian legal history. Let me nevertheless emphasize: the judgment of Fritz Moen's case is unmerciful to those who wronged him. It is shocking and frightening that this is possible in a state of law. Nevertheless, even though the Fritz Moen case with today's decision is over, the Stortinget sends a strong signal to the entire Norwegian judicial system to learn from the matter. The new national court institute has been set up to ensure that «infringement of constitutional obligations» shall and may have serious consequences for those concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e301	The rapporteur has done a thorough examination of the Committee's position and the reasons for the majority's proposal for a decision. Let me also join in the rapporteur's recognition of Tore Sandberg's efforts for Fritz Moen. Since the rapporteur has been so thorough, I would like to limit my contribution to some assessments on the matter. When Minister of Justice Knut Storberget was handed over the position from the Milan Committee, who was responsible for investigating the criminal cases against Fritz Moen, he said the following - and I quote from the vote: ‘It is not possible to undo the injustices committed by society against Moen. But it is up to us, as a responsible legal society, to draw the most lessons out of this matter in order to avoid anything similar happening again." The attack on Fritz Moen is one of the most serious cases known in Norwegian law. According to the investigation committee, no full and objective evidence was provided by the police to the higher prosecution authority, the defence and the court. As the sample points out, the key to avoiding false convictions is to ensure that the police comply with the principle of objectivity in their submission of evidence. It was here that there was a failure in this case, and the sample therefore proposed some changes to the rules to help ensure such compliance. It was when Fritz Moen was convicted for the two killings in the law of Frostating and the sentences were later confirmed in the Supreme Court, that the injustice against Fritz Moen was committed. The report from Tore Sandberg is directed against the Swedish Supreme Court's Committee on Love Affairs and is justified by the fact that the Committee on Love Affairs rejected the resumption of the case concerning the killing at Torunn Finstad, while saying yes to resuming the case about the killing at Sigrid Heggheim. The notification applies to provisions which require that the Committee of Lovers should have ‘acted against better knowledge’ and/or ‘have shown serious misconception in the Service’. The background is that the loving selection didn't need to go deeper into one of the Torunn diplomats. The examination of this testimony during the trial was thoroughly reviewed by the Mæland Committee in NOU 2007:7 and set out in the Settings. These witnesses were, by mistake, not summoned to the trial in Frostating's law, and Moens agrees that they could be dismissed. The committee does not find any basis for criticising the right of the teamman. Nor does the committee find this testimony so central that it would have significant significance for the assessment of evidence. On this basis, I believe it is obvious that a national court appeal against the three Supreme Court rulings of the Committee of Dearest Affairs because they did not need to go deeper into the ambiguity of this testimony will not show. That is why it is not right to transmit it to the Swedish Commission for Liability. When this testimony has been considered not to have had a significant impact on the assessment of evidence in the case, it seems unlikely that it could have a decisive impact on the resumption assessments. This is the reason why the Labour Party in the vote is in agreement with the majority to settle the case. The Party considers that this is the basis for taking this notification a step forward and sending it to the Responsible Commission. The reason lies in the reply letter from the three Supreme Court rulings, which inserts the word ‘unknown’ in the case of the man or boy they find it quite unlikely that the Torunn Finstad would have taken down the slope with the fateful night. But in the opinion of the Committee on Love, there is no distinction between whether the Torunn Finstad might have joined, been known or unknown to her. Therefore, this may not have been the decisive element that could have tipped the case off in favour of resumption. The wrong that was committed against Fritz Moen is very serious. As far as it is possible to remedy such an injustice, this is done. The judgments have been lifted, and compensation has been given. Lessons have been drawn and will hopefully contribute to something similar not repeating. It is understandable that there may also be a desire to place someone in charge. However, the responsibility for the injustice does not lie with the Committee on Love. That's why it's right to end the matter here, as a broad majority suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e335	The case rapporteur has gone through the entire course of events and the case thoroughly, and has given a clear explanation. He has thanked Tore Sandberg and said that the murder of justice that Fritz Moen was subjected to is a disgrace to our legal system, and I fully agree with that. What matters is that everyone agrees with the heart that there has been an injustice and gross murder of justice against Fritz Moen, but no one is punished for this. It has had no disciplinary consequences for anyone, as far as I know. There has also been no special investigation. A report against one of the police officers was well posted because he had retired from the pension. Nothing special has been done to see if anyone should somehow be charged with some form of liability for the murder of the judiciary. There's also reason to think through. I guess that's also true of the murder of Liland and, as many claim, of Torgersen. There is a common denominator in many of these cases, namely a widespread reluctance in the judiciary, which Tore Sandberg has also met in his work. There's some of the clear things that are to be found in his book. So this goodwill that now exists in so far as many of us share, is not something that has been sitting in the legal system - humility and being receptive to perhaps looking at the matter again. It is the ordinary prosecution authority and the judiciary that of course relates to all the others implicated in the murder of the judiciary against Fritz Moen. It's not the responsibility of the Storting, it's the State Attorney and his system and the ordinary prosecution authority and the court's responsibility. This matter has, as the case-rapporteur said, come to our table as a result of a report from Tore Sandberg by three Supreme Court judges. In the case of Supreme Court judges and what they do in the performance of their duties, there is a new system for the Stortinge to be treated. That's why we can deal with this. In the present case, the Progress Party fraction has reached a different conclusion from that of the majority. The rapporteur mentioned that there was no basis for national law. It was probably also affected so far by Svein Roald Hansen. It is not for the Stortinget to decide today. The purpose of the decision is to determine whether the case is to be settled at this stage or whether the notification is to lead to an investigation. We in the Progress Party believe that it is natural that it is made the subject of investigation. We have also not concluded in any way whether or not it should be prosecuted later. However, we think that there are so many uncertainties that an investigation by the Responsible Commission where the Responsible Commission was asked the relevant questions to the three Supreme Court judges would provide a much better basis than the present one for proceeding with the case. The Liability Commission is also wide-ranging, and after its investigation it would also have an obligation under the new system to provide a position or advice to the Stortinget as to whether it should be brought to trial, or whether the case should be settled. So we have come to the conclusion that we think it would be perfectly natural that the Responsible Commission did that investigation and gave it the advice and attitude of the Stortinget. In the setting, we have explained some of the background for this, including: as stated in the letter dated 19 February 2008 from the three Supreme Court Judges to the Committee: ‘We accept that Section 116 may have got a somewhat unclear design. However, the central feature of the selection was, as can be seen from sections 120 and 121, that we considered it totally unlikely that Torunn Finstad would have struck at night with an unknown man down the slope by the river. The question of location of the sounds thus did not appear to be relevant in relation to the resumption request.» - So this is the judges' own interpretation of the ruling they gave in 2001 - that's the interpretation they gave themselves. So when we study these sentences, it is clear that ‘we thought it was quite unlikely that Torunn Finstad would have joined an unknown man in the slope at night.’ I haven't found anywhere why it should be so unlikely. Why would it be so unlikely? Svein Roald Hansen stuck himself up in this ‘unknown’, and I have also mentioned that. If we replace «unknown» with «known», you can also ask: Why would it be unlikely that Torunn Finstad would join a well-known man at night? There's not anything unusual in that if you meet someone you know, or maybe have seen once before, you start talking to each other when you've been to a party and are safe in a good mood? There are also witnesses who say that there was a person who followed the one who the witnesses believe was Torunn Finstad. It may have been someone she was with at the Student Society, danced with, and she then joins in and talks with. Such a theory is, in my opinion, much more likely when one de facto knows that Torunn Finstad was found murdered just near the place where the witnesses A and B referred that they had heard a man and a woman mumble and talk together-- 'they might see us', which may indicate that they didn't want anyone to see them. Then those witnesses are very central. Those witnesses then showed the probability that there was a man and a woman in that slope not far away from where the Torunn was found killed, and then of course it would be a completely different from Fritz Moen who could have committed the killing. We know later that it wasn't Fritz Moen. I therefore think it is a little strange that, because of a totally unfounded and really ill-thought-out theory that it should be unlikely that Torunn Finstad at night should have joined an unknown man in the slope by the river, when she was de facto murdered not far away from the slope where the witnesses heard it, you do not want to go into this matter more closely with the three Supreme Court judgements of the Defence Commission. Against this background, I would like to address the proposal contained in the vote, and ask the representatives of Storting to think carefully about whether it will not be natural, also as a sort of uprising for Fritz Moen, that the Responsible Commission investigates - and I focus only on investigators - the course of events that I have described, and that is also central to Tore Sandberg's report. The fact that the case is also settled here, as was done with the former police officer, and actually shows little interest in finding out that there may have been some misconduct, I think it is a little sad, but it goes into the range of what Tore Sandberg has revealed in several cases, in fact resisting the real effort to carry out the necessary investigations and humbly trying to correct the mistakes that have been made in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e366	The representative Carl I. Hagen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e369	The Committee has decided not to refer the case against the three Supreme Court judgments Bruzelius, Matningsdal and Stang Lund to the responsibilities committee of the Stortinge. However, on the basis of Tore Sandberg’s initiative, the Committee chose for the first time to open a case to decide whether constitutional liability should be invoked and whether the Enlarged Bureau of the European Parliament should be asked to carry out the necessary investigations to clarify the basis for such liability. I see this process as a clear recognition of the importance of the matter. It is likely that Tore Sandberg has previously met a sort of attitude that this does not interest us, but precisely that attitude I do not think can be directed towards the Stortinge's handling of the matter, which has happened with the utmost seriousness and respect for both Sandberg's efforts and for the seriousness of the matter. This already tells a lot about the seriousness of the matter. The treatment of Fritz Moen is one of the most serious murders in Norway's history and is rightly called a disgrace to our legal community. What's not to happen happened. The government apparatus failed, and an innocent man was convicted for two killings he had not committed. The Committee's opinion shall state in detail why the majority of the Committee considers that there is no basis for forwarding the matter to the Enlarged Bureau. I agree here with the rapporteur's statement, which was thorough and good on this point. The right, together with the majority of the committee, is to believe that the matter has now finally been dealt with in a sound and thorough manner, not only in the Grand Duchy, but also through the work of the Malta Committee and, in addition, the recent conciliation between the State and Fritz Moens. I would like to emphasise once again that our decision is not due to a review of the gravity of the matter, but to an overall assessment of what should actually be required in order to put the Liability Commission into action and, if necessary, to assert constitutional liability to judges in the Supreme Court. For the Right, we have not found that the three Supreme Court judges’ exercise of their duties as members of the Committee on Legal Affairs provide the basis for putting the Commission of Liability into action, and initiate a process that could lead to a national action for breach of constitutional obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e384	The Fritz Moen case has become a bad and difficult case for our legal system. The two killings were cruel in themselves. When we also find that the wrong person was convicted for the killings, the matter has become double evil. I think it is important that the Storting today has the right starting point in this case, and we have probably also learned so far that we have. Our judgement shall only be used to determine whether there are sufficient grounds for initiating investigations in view of a possible national court action against three named Supreme Court judges. Nor is it up to us to review various court decisions in the Fritz Moen case, as if we were another and higher court. The essence of the matter is, as far as I can see, essentially whether the three Supreme Court rulings by opposing the resumption of the Torunn case in the Supreme Court's dearest selection acted against better knowledge. The three Supreme Court rulings were notified by Tore Sandberg because he believes they did not go thoroughly enough to investigate testimonies from two people who had heard voices at the scene where Torunn was found killed, about the time the killing could have taken place. In line with what I started by saying, it's not up to us to make a review of these testimonies here. Nevertheless, it is a fact that these statements have been substantiated throughout the trial, because they were considered unclear that they were neither alone nor combined with other testimonies capable of weakening the confidence in the defendant's confession and contributing to acquittal. The moment the defendant's defense chose to ignore these testimonies, too, speaks in the same direction. The rapporteur has explained the various aspects of the matter in his statement. I find no reason to go further in detail. Both the suspension itself and the attachments provide additional information that helps to inform the case. As is known for the first time after the adoption of the new national law regime, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has opened up a case like this. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have considered the matter thoroughly, not least in the light of the fact that this is a sort of 'test case'. We have not least chosen to focus on the opinions of the Investigation Committee set up by the Government to investigate the Fritz Moen case and Norwegian criminal justice. The committee, led by Professor Henry John Mæland, has concluded that the testimony of the two cases concerned would not have a significant impact on the assessment of evidence and could not be attributed to ‘some weight in the assessment of the credibility of the confession’. We also take into account that the Resumption Commission for Criminal Matters has not mentioned the witness observation from Witness A in connection with its decision to resume the Torunn case. Tore Sandberg deserves, as others have also stressed, a great reward for his efforts in both this and other matters. However, the Sandberg report claims that the three judges have violated the penal code by acting against better knowledge and as officials to have shown gross insensibility in the service. These are, of course, serious claims. We cannot see that there is evidence that is strong enough to substantiate these claims. On one point, the three judges have admitted that they could have elaborated more. It should be done quite well to ensure that there is some weakness in such an extensive case. But more is needed in order to launch an investigation in view of a possible national court process. In any case, there are no strong points of view to claim that the Supreme Court judges have deliberately acted against better knowledge. In this case, we must also take into account that we know today more than the dearest selection knew when they made their call in 2003. Two years later, in December 2005, it appeared that another person on deathbed had admitted to having committed the killings on both women. It was essentially what led the Resumption Commission for Criminal Affairs to decide that the Torunn case had to be reopened. The representatives of the Progress Party have reached the opposite conclusion in relation to the rest of the Committee. That, of course, must be respected. The party claims that when the Supreme Court judgments refused to resume the Torunn case, it has probably only been based on a presumption. The progress party on its side suggests a hypothesis that Torunn on the way from the Student Society that night may have met a man she knew, with whom she then entered into a flirt that could have led to rape, as we also heard in the representative Hagen's posts. Unlike the representative Carl I. Hagen, I find it difficult to see that the Progress Party has contributed to the likelihood of this claim. I also find it difficult to see that the above-mentioned witness observations could have helped shed some more light on the matter, even if the proposal of the Progress Party was recorded. So in our view, we would have gotten the same distance. The Christian People's Party has concluded that there is not enough reason to start a work in the Liability Commission and thus put the national court apparatus in readiness. We believe that it is very unlikely that new investigations will reveal conditions that could lead to a case being brought before the national court. I agree with Mr Hagen that in this round it is just a matter of deciding whether we should start an investigation - of course. Nor can we – with reference to the statements by the representative Foss – do we have the possible consequences for us at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e410	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough review of the facts of the matter, as they emerge in retrospect and after a thorough examination in the committee. This is the first time that the Storting will decide after the new provision whether constitutional liability should be enforced, including whether the Board of Directors of the Storing should be requested to carry out the necessary investigations to clarify the basis for such liability. Reference is then made to the Law on the Procedure of the Court of Justice of 5 February 1932 No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The background to the notification by Tore Sandberg of 18 September 2006 was that the three Supreme Court judgments Magnus Matningsdal, Eilert Stang Lund and Karin Bruzelius, as members of the High Court's Committee on Love, on 14 October 2003, referred to the Court for a decision to refuse the resumption of the Torunn case. Sandberg believes that the members of the Committee have been guilty of criminal offences as a result of the handling by judges of a central part of a witness’s observation, which several of the representatives have also been involved in their interventions here today. The Committee decided to open the case on the basis of the claims made in the Tore Sandberg notification, and the fact that Fritz Moen was innocently convicted of two killings for which he was 18 years old. The assassination of Fritz Moen is one of the most serious known in Norwegian justice, and will forever be a disgrace to our legal community. Fritz Moen was acquitted of the killing in civil matters after being sentenced to punishment. The release of the murder in the Torunn case occurred after Fritz Moen died on March 28, 2005. The main reason for the liberation was that in December 2005, a man on the deathbed admitted to having committed the killings of the two women Sigrid Heggheim and Torunn Finstad. As mentioned above, the rapporteur has thoroughly reviewed the facts of the case, as the majority sees it. I'm not going to repeat the arguments, I just want to join the praise others have given Tore Sandberg for the work he has done in this matter. I believe that the Committee has carried out a thorough review of the facts of the matter and has carried out a proper assessment, namely that there is no basis for submitting the matter to the Enlarged Bureau. There's something the Center Party supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e425	The left is not represented in the committee, so I want to come up with a few words. I think the case rapporteur had a very thorough and fine review, and the Left supports the majority of the committee and their assessment. Of course this is a very serious reproach, yes, it is in a way the nightmare of the rule of law when such things happen. That's why Tore Sandberg's role is so amazing, but it also shows that we all as single-citizens in a society are actually responsible, from top to bottom to being a witness or being a citizen, to fight against such things happening. That's what this is about. When you build a nation and a state of law together, it's actually a common responsibility. There is one aspect that has not been included in this debate, but which I believe has taught a lot. I've talked to policemen who say that the hearings in the Fritz Moen case in the police textbook are now used as a nightmare example of how it should not be done. Many people have learned a lot from this. But there's another aspect that I think we haven't raised, but that's a big aspect of society, and it's about the legal certainty of those who have different disabilities. Obviously, the disability here has contributed to the injustice that has actually happened. It's about the legal certainty you build in a society -- taking an extra round, having an extra security, having an extra aspect of having a disability. We're talking about rights for people with disabilities. On this platform, we care a lot about the rights of all those who are able to express what they need, but we may not always be as good at ensuring legal certainty and the rights of all those who are unable to express it. I believe that the Norwegian court has learned a lot from this case. It's a lesson we should have wanted us to have gotten in other ways, but because there are active citizens like Tore Sandberg, we're getting something right again. We get at least the ability to apologize as a legal state.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e438	Let me end by adding some comments to this which is a historic day in Stortinget. So this is the first time that the Stortinget deals with a possible transfer to the Liability Commission and the beginning of a possible national court case. The treatment given by the Control and Constitutional Committee has been thorough and comprehensive, which is also reflected in the suspension. The fact that there is a difference of opinion within the committee does not weaken the way the matter is dealt with as such. I believe that we, representing the majority, have good reasons why we've done what we've done. But of course it can be seen in a different way, that's what politics is. Hagen has explained the minority's view. Let me just stress that when the Control and Constitutional Committee decided to open a case, the conclusion was not given. You opened a case to see if the matter itself was such that you would send it to the Responsible Commission. During the examination in the Committee, the majority found that there was no basis for this. Let me highlight what's the jumping point. That's the witness observation of witnesses A and B, which Sandberg emphasizes in his review. The reality is that the witnesses A and B have - and that also underscores the Supreme Court judgments - a somewhat different view of where they heard the voices coming from. This is also evident from the quotation from the witness observation. So three different instances have evaluated this witness observation from witnesses A and B. They were not called to the main negotiations in the law of the team. The Commission for the resumption of criminal proceedings has not emphasised this. Neither has the Mæland Committee, which has gone through the matter very thoroughly, emphasized the witnesses A and B, other than the way I quoted in my main post. In my opinion and in the opinion of the majority of the European Parliament, it will be very difficult to give more importance to witnesses A and B than they have received in three very thorough discussions of the matter. What still remains after today's treatment -- and that's perhaps what's most important and perhaps most historic -- for whatever conclusion the Greatness had fallen on today, you would never have been able to make up for the wrong done to Fritz Moen -- that's that society has said sorry. We give Sandberg honor and honor for the great job he's done in acquitting Fritz Moen. The Minister of Justice has apologized, and Fritz Moens' house has got 20 million. kr as a small uprising for the wrong committed. But the fact that the Storting is subject to such thorough treatment in this report gives a very clear signal to the Supreme Court and to our legal community that what happened in the Fritz Moen case must never happen again, and that if you commit that kind of injustice, you are actually responsible to both the Stortinget and the Norwegian community. This is the first time that the new national court institute has dealt with these kinds of issues, but it should not be overlooked that this is being noticed in the circles to be aware of it. This will mean, of course, that future court proceedings will have to be extremely careful, and the same will apply to all possible legal proceedings involving Supreme Court judges. In that way, today's treatment of the Fritz Moen case -- that's the last consideration of this matter, that means that the matter is now settled -- and the long-term effect of our having dealt with the matter so thoroughly, will be noticed in the Norwegian legal community in future generations, simply because it was today started and actually had a real treatment of the national court institute before the Supreme Court and its judges. It will have a long-term and positive impact on our legal community. I recommend the majority of the committee's position, which is that the matter should be settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e453	I would like to join the rapporteur's hope that the handling of this matter will have consequences in the sense that the judiciary, both the Supreme Court and everyone else, take note of the treatment and the strong desire not to have cases similar to the Fritz Moen case. I am somewhat uncertain whether it will actually be perceived this way, as you do not act. Several speakers have said that they are against studies, because the studies will not reveal anything. I actually thought it was the way that investigations are conducted to find out if there is anything to reveal. It will always be that it would seem strange if studies, examinations and assessments were not to be carried out because they have been concluded in advance. The rapporteur also mentioned that there were three previous treatments, i.e. courts, review committees, etc., have examined and evaluated these testimonies, and have concluded that it is not as important as that. Well, the fact that others have concluded this is not an excuse for the Storting. If you conclude the same way just because others have done it, you feel that if others make mistakes, you should be able to make the exact same mistakes yourself, without really having any responsibility. It is still the case that no one is responsible for the judicial orders against Fritz Moen. There have been no consequences for anyone. And in the case of the judiciary and the judicial system, it doesn't seem to me -- at least, like an outsider -- as if it's turned into the systems that you have to be humble about possible murder of justice, and that you should be open to look at things again -- again, for example. The Torgersen case, where you keep a hold of nothing to be resumed. The attitude that I mean to sense is that we meet from the legal system, also through the book of Tore Sandberg, and in the Liland case and other matters, is that we do per. definition not wrong, and please, we shouldn't have anyone going after us in the seams. You might cover each other up a little and have the attitude that this is not doing wrong, and you are actively countering those who would like to find out if mistakes have been made. And I'm sorry to have to say that, but I feel that it's the same thing that comes here to the hall, in the Stortinget -- a lot of fine words, but starting research and giving the opportunity for questioning and monitoring says no to the majority. It would seem quite natural for the Progress Party to have been entrusted with that task by the Swedish Grand Duchy's Liability Commission. As far as I have understood, Tore Sandberg has not concluded that the matter of national law should be raised. He has also not said that the Supreme Court has committed anything criminally, he has asked for an investigation into this. And the investigation with which the Liability Commission should have been started would have been a much better basis for the Storting's decision as to whether the case should be settled or whether it should be brought to trial.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e468	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e486	When I prepared for this interpellation debate, I took the time to go through my own rock archive of the Opera in the last ten years. There were many debates, and there were many assumptions about what was going to go well, and what was going to go bad. But now it's probably time that we do what when you've experienced a birth, evaluates the outcome and not the process. Because it's been amazing, so you almost took to the tears on the opening day. And there are many who have done an amazing job, from here in this hall and all the way down to those who have made sure that such a construction can stand in such a difficult place. Apart from a small scandal, with a little bit of an excessive geologist who, fortunately, was wrong, there has been a little scandalous process. It's perhaps one of the first buildings in Norway's history that the state has built in Oslo, which has become what it was supposed to be. If you take the Stortinget, the Government Quartet, the Castle or whatever it should be, you've always started saving when you came halfway, so it hasn't become like it was really meant to be. But it went very fast. I'll come back a little bit to that maybe it went a little too fast. The interest in opera is growing. People want to go to the opera. People want to experience the new hall and the new house. Then it's important to offer everything, from the light, operatic and musical worlds, to the slightly more difficult accessible that you might have to stretch a little towards. We have built a framework around many new opportunities, and many new technical opportunities. We have a responsibility, I mean, to expand the momentum we actually have historically to increase the interest in music scene art, and to optimise the gain that lies in having a fantastic, modern stage, with very modern equipment, perhaps the most modern in the world, where choirs, ballets, orchestras and opera company are to be allowed to unfold. One of the more exciting things is that we now suddenly have an opera with a stage 2. That means that we have the ability to have smaller sets. Most of what happens from innovation and new composition in Norwegian, especially by Norwegian artists, is done in Scene 2 format, because writing to large opera format is a pretty big process. So it's important that we use that momentum, and that stage art is developed not just by taking old wipes and putting new rules on top. It's not just great Norwegian directors we're going to have. We also need a new content. My challenge to the state council is that maybe we should think a little bit more about this art form, which we've been thinking about in cinema and film production. Writing a new Norwegian opera set-up takes up to three to four years in production time. It's starting to look more and more like big movie sets, big cinema sets. Then there is also a technical craft located here, related to training and the possibility of using the opportunities that lie there. There has been criticism from the composers, and the relationship between composers and opera doesn't seem to be on top. It is a responsibility that we also have to take politically to see what we can contribute. In 2000, nine new Norwegian operas were set up on a national basis, and now we are down in a couple of three. Much of the innovation takes place at regional level. There's a lot of exciting happening around the regional music theatre scenes. There's a lot of excitement also in using a tour, both to get professionals out and to show off the amateur-professional performances that are there. Some of the concept in Norwegian culture has always been in shattered amateur-professional. A lot that's been created that we're very proud of in Norwegian cultural life, is right in the break-up between professional and amateur, taking them all, very best to work with those who do it just because it's fun. Much of it's about recruiting, not only recruiting the audience, but also recruiting top artists. It's clear that the game tradition we have around Norway has created many great actors, actors we might not have seen if it hadn't been for a very active amateur theatre environment around the country, which makes sure that more people think it's fun to go to the theater, that more people are interested in theater, but also that more people are becoming the most, the best in theater. That idea is important that we transfer to opera and to the music scene art, so that we use regional units to recruit audiences, to recruit tops, but also to innovation, to create new ideas, to get the best possible use of resources. So it's happening something exciting right in this field that I think you might not have anticipated with the digital age. It is that we can use digital aids to perform tours, yes, we can actually use digital tools to ensure that many around the country can be on the same premiere at the same time on the opera scene by transferring digitally, either by connecting the Norwegian Opera, experiencing a premiere at The Mets, or by bringing the Norwegian Opera premiere around the country. It opens up the technology for now, and I think that's an exciting way to think about bringing opera out to the people. I have a challenge for the Council of State-- I've never had an interpellation with this Council of State before, so I'm a little excited about how it goes, but I'm very happy. The possibility for the future is that we transfer the film production process in terms of long-term sustainability. Today we are very dependent on the managers of the system to initiate new productions, but perhaps we should think both of funds and of film production in terms of long-term sustainability. So it's also a challenge that we have the relationship between Norwegian composers and such an important scene. It's going to be a goal for Norwegian composers, this is a scene you're stretching towards, you want to, and you feel like you're in a real competition to get to, not that you feel there's little interest in getting to that stage. It is a matter for which we, as politicians, have a responsibility, to improve. The momentum we've created with this building, I think I have an obligation to complete the content and to think about what we can do to make this scene as exciting as possible, not only for the Norwegian audience, but also for the international audience, so that this will not only be a place to look at and drink coffee, but a place where you really struggle to get tickets to the scene as well. When I was a high school teacher, I once had 30 16-17-year-olds in the Opera. It wasn't because they had so much desire, but because it was nice to have been there. That's what I experienced was opening up a new world to an age group that otherwise might not have gone to the Opera. That the very heavy hard rock in the bus down from Tøndelag to Oslo was replaced with and «Tosca» and «The Tower» on the way back was a great experience for a little teacher. I think a lot more people can experience that a new world is opening up, a new cultural world, but then the momentum has to be kept that we have a new and exciting scene, with an incredible number of possibilities. Then we have to make sure that we use all the tools we have, to make sure that as much as possible come and look at, and that the best composers will reach for this as a place where they really want to perform their art.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e512	I think it's great that the interpellant is taking the initiative for an opera policy discussion. There have been some rounds in this room about what we in Stortinget, and as cultural politicians, are going to interfere, but I now feel that we are more in line than we have been in the past. This is cultural policy. Although it is about repertoire selection and innovation, it is something that concerns us politicians. The most important thing to facilitate the innovation and development of an art form is resources. Through the Cultural Promise, the government has significantly increased the state grant to the Opera and thus provided room for a commitment to the development of artistic quality. In 2005, when we took over, the Norwegian Opera grant was 239 million. kr, in 2008 this increased by approximately 107 million. NOK 346 million. kr, i.e. an increase of more than 44 pst. There's a very strong commitment to a cultural budget. The State budget emphasises the creation, production and presentation of new Norwegian operas, and the 2008 Norwegian Opera grant letter states that point 2 is under the main objective of ‘promoting artistic development and innovation’. There is a broad consensus that we should pursue cultural policy according to the arm's length principle. Repertory selection, ordering works initiative and the choice of setup models are therefore most of all the responsibility of the Opera's artistic management. Opera in Norway is also slightly more than just the Opera in Bjørvika. For 2008, the Ministry of Culture and the Church grants grants to nine regional and district operatic establishments from Kristiansand in the south to Tromsø in the north. It's a very exciting thing to do here. The AdOpera! project, funded by the Norwegian Cultural Council, has covered a wide range of complex opera production environments in several counties. I would also like to clarify that innovative operas are also setting up already written operas in a new way. It is important to strike a balance between new operas and new sets of already known works. The older works do not lose their value just because they have been written a long time ago. Without the opera by Mozart, Verdi, Wagner and Puccini, there probably wouldn't be so much interest in opera in Norway and around the world. My goal for the Opera is that it should embrace far and reach new audiences. We can do that best by offering new pieces, old pieces in a new version and traditional setups. As you know, the newly written Norwegian opera ‘Land around 80 days’ would mark the very opening of the opera. Delayed delivery by subcontractors of stage equipment led to the postponement of this show. It was impossible to do anything about it, but the opera is written, and it will appear in Bjørvika, albeit delayed. Then I also have to say that in the criticism that the opera is not innovative enough, or that you don't have enough new setups, you forget that this is a house for two forms of art. It's opera, but it's ballet, too. We have even changed the name of the institution to the Norwegian Opera & Ballet, and the National Ballet is an equivalent part of this house. Here we see many new sets and many Norway premieres, even some world premieres, performed with very high artistic quality. Since 1958 and until today, the opera has had only one hall, with quite limited options for repertoire selection. The Opera has therefore for many years substantially built its program around the classic nuclear repertoire. In our new opera house’s first season, 2008-2009, 14 operas are to be performed, 5 of which are contemporary works. Compared to the leading European opera houses, with which we now have ambitions to get up to date, the institution is already well above the average for the proportion of contemporary operas in this season. The Norwegian Opera aims to double the number of performances compared to the previous one, from 150 to 300, and also to double the audience. We now get a scene 2, which gives opportunities for a larger production, and maybe more experimental art. I believe that this house will really lead to a quality development, innovation and development of Norwegian opera. In the case of Norwegian composers and librettists, the Norwegian Opera & Ballet aims at binding development work funded by earmarked funds. The assumption shall be that the projects invited are also expected to be listed. I think this must be for the artistic management of the Opera. The comparison with the film is a bit limping, for several reasons. Writing an opera is just part of a hard production, just like writing a script for a movie is part of a hard production. But unlike movies, where we have many independent producers, who make their films independently of each other, we have first of all one national opera scene, and then we have the regional scenes around the country. So here we have to use some other means. But we're going to contribute to development, and we're going to contribute to quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e542	Let me start by commenting on the ballet, which I also said of course has a place. In my view, perhaps ballet, or the entire dance arts area, is one of the more exciting areas of innovation in Norway today. There's an incredible amount of innovation happening in the entire dance arts area -- not only related to the ballet, but also related to many of the other dance environments we have. I could have said a lot about it, but I think it's about to happen something revolutionary when it comes to dancing -- when someone's going to look at us in a slightly longer perspective. Of course you should set up Puccini. It would have been pointless to have an opera without Puccini. But the fact that you're going to have a wide range, that you're going to have a great opportunity to also be able to extend to new and exciting areas is very important. It's not about meddling in repertoire choices, it's about laying a foundation. And the basis for my interpellation was that the organisation of composers here in the country doesn't seem satisfied with the way you have cooperation relations. So maybe there was a way to see if we could create a policy to get better cooperation. Then I hear the council says everything is fine and great. I agree with the Council that we have spent more money, but I would like to ask if that money has actually gone to new productions in the same way. This house came up with some technical challenges that make us also take on a bigger price tag when it was operating -- obviously, when we went in to have the most modern stage in the world. I'm a little afraid that we're now throwing away all our money to be optimally good at technology, without spending the same amount of money on the content. Sense of course, if the artistic management has to be at the management of the Opera, there's also a lot going on in terms of artistic leadership in the regional operas. There's a lot of innovation and new composition going on. How to bring it to a national scene, I didn't feel like the Council had any answers. I'm concerned when you feel that a mere start is actually a little monopolistic as it is happening today, and that we then put all the responsibility for development in the area there. Maybe we should also have made sure that we stimulated the innovation around also on the regional scene. Or maybe we should have made sure that there was a funding or a fund structure that made it possible to create a gap between the Opera, the organisations and the regional operas. But I perceived the council so that he thought everything was perfect. I would challenge him to say whether we have the right funding mechanisms to stimulate innovation also regionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e551	It's very much that's good, but to say that it's perfect will be to go too far even about the government's cultural policy. But there's no doubt that the cultural promise, which I think Trine Skei Grande in secret times is really very happy, has led to a promise for the Norwegian Opera, for the district opera, and not least for the representative who talked about, the dance. We've opened up Dansen's House, we've lifted the National Ballet, we've put in place our own support system for dance under the Cultural Council, so here we've really contributed to the promise that's now taking place. And that's quite true: it's going to be very exciting. I believe that it is not our job to enter the individual orders for the Norwegian Opera. What we can do is provide resources, infrastructure and good forms of cooperation and support. We'll have plenty of opportunity to discuss this in the announced announcement of stage art that the government is going to present in a very short time. Dance and opera will be dealt with, and here it is also possible to discuss the forms of cooperation between the regional operation and the Norwegian Opera, how to transfer the skills that are now being built in the capital, to the district operation, and how to perhaps collaborate on different productions and innovations. So we're going to come back to that in plenty of monn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e558	As was said in the Skei Grande's interpellation, and followed up by the Minister of Culture: We've got a magnificent building of a new opera. It's amazing. Those of us who participated in the opening of the Opera on April 12th also experienced a diverse opening performance in a main hall with a completely exceptional acoustics. That promises good for the artistic experiences many people will have in the Opera in the years to come. Opera and ballet are being run in both new and older opera houses around the world. Within the ballet, there are a growing number of new configurations with experimental forms of expression, in addition to the classical ballet repertoire. In the opera, most of the impressions are that it's the nuclear repertoire with pieces from the 1700s and 1800s that are the most common, and perhaps the most loved by the audience. At the same time, it is worth mentioning that several of these sets take place with bold regimes that put stories into new contexts and give new and different experiences to the audience. Many will remember the Norwegian Opera’s version of the “Trylleflöten” for a while back, where one staged a very successful meeting between Mozart and folk musicians. At the same time, newly written operas are also composed and performed in a contemporary musical expression both at home and internationally. It will therefore be interesting to see how this is taken care of by the new opera when the main stage and the bishops are to be programmed in the future, for it is, as the Council of State said, the opera's artistic leadership that has to make the final decisions here. The interpellant challenges the Minister of Culture to help the Opera develop a new repertoire for a new time. That's good. Governments have a good response to that challenge: The government has increased the appropriations for the Norwegian Opera by over 100 million. NOK 3 years, i.e. an increase of more than 44 pst. That's the best way to give the Opera a restful armstroke. The Opera has, as has been said here, two scenes and thus a nice opportunity to try out new expressions and settings. Not least, it will be a challenge both for the opera house here at home and for the operas internationally to develop new forms of music drama within many different genres of contemporary music. For example, I can. think to me that it could be inexorably exciting if the Norwegian Opera could be inspired by the brand new cultural expressions from other and more distant strokes that have come here with people who have settled down here in the country. In an international world, we are becoming increasingly familiar with what was initially unfamiliar art forms and cultural expressions. We're gradually becoming more bold in our tastes, and that should be good news for both the Opera and other cultural institutions. The new opera-building will also be important for the development of the regional opera-environments that are currently being cared for by nine regional and district operas throughout the country. The interpellant compared opera and film. Then it is timely to stress that it is currently in the regions of the exciting stories being brought forward for production on white canvas. It's an exciting feature of our cultural life that the interest in opera is so great in so many places. And because there are many professional and skilled practitioners in all regions across the country, it gives the Norwegian Opera a solid platform for developing good cooperation. Not least in terms of bringing new and different stories and stories into the opera theater and experimenting with expressions and genres, regional environments could play an important role. We are already seeing exciting actions in progress, with Opera West in Bergen, Opera North in Tromsø, opera actions in Halden, Kristiansand, Kristiansund and at Steinvikholmen in Trøndelag. Therefore, the focus on opera will also mean that these and other regional opera environments need to be given an economic boost in the future. The cultural promise is on track and will, to the most extent, continue to benefit the Norwegian Opera and the opera communities in the country, both through direct grants from the State budget and from the provisions for opera purposes granted by the Norwegian Cultural Council. Then there is inspiration for the opera both when it comes to creating new music dramas based on different genres in our day, and when it comes to giving space to musicians, for example. freelancers, mastering expressions that move slightly outside the artistic/classical aesthetics on which the opera’s core repertoire is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e575	An opera building alone is not enough to create a cultural nation. But with the new building, we've taken a new and very important step in the right direction. We can be proud of our new beauty building. Physically, everything is now at the ready that the Opera in Bjørvika can become the cultural policy locomotive it is supposed to be. The road to a new building has been long. Now, when the building is in place, we don't have to lean back and lie down on the laurel. On the contrary, we must actively facilitate the completion of the building with varying content of high quality. Not least it must be filled with new and innovative opera and ballet. That's why there's an important topic for the interpellant here today. From an architectural policy point of view, the Opera is already a success. But the decision of a cultural nation is not whether we can build an opera building, but whether we can fill it with high-quality content, so that it becomes a power center of joy for the whole country. In the Committee's attitude from the time the opera decision was taken, the majority said that 'any modern contemporary cultural building that is a new opera should stimulate innovation and attract new and larger audiences'. Plural meant on that occasion: «A modern cultural institution should be given the opportunity to introduce new artistic expressions to the public, so that the house and its contents are perceived as new and exciting.» That's the point we should notice today. There are particularly four things I would like to comment on especially when it concerns opera and ballet. First of all, there is a need for stronger investment in district operations. When it was decided to build a new opera house, Stortinget also made a different decision. A collecting committee said at the time that in parallel with the construction of a new opera house, it would develop an opera and ballet environment in the country. In different regions, activities should be developed that would be part of the ringing effects of a new opera house. This has not been done adequately. The national plan for the production and dissemination of opera and ballet suggested that there should be a stepping-up of the supplements for opera measures around the country. Opera is a special form of music that too many people can experience as a frontland until they have experienced or shared in setups. Therefore, it is important that as many as possible make it possible to see and right-hand operations of high quality in their immediate environment. I'd like to talk very much about all our excellent district operations, but unfortunately time doesn't allow it. However, I will challenge the Council of State to say something about the environment in Kristiansund and Bergen in particular. The opera in Kristiansund is Norway's oldest opera and is the largest outside of Oslo, with the status of National Resource and Competence Centre for Discipline Opera. How do the Councils of State see that this environment can be strengthened? When it comes to Bergen, the opera environment has taken important initiatives to further develop the opera environment in the West. In the Committee's budget setting in the autumn, the Committee was concerned that the Government had to follow closely the developments in the Bergen operating environment and assess measures ensuring good development. I want to underline the significance of this. Secondly, there must be a policy that inspires Norwegian composers to write Norwegian operas. It is necessary to focus on the setting up of composers and dramatists to enable the innovation and renewal of opera and ballet in Norway. I know that the Norwegian Composers' Association, Norwegian Association for Composers and Text Writers and the Dramatic Association have proposed the creation of an action plan for the development of new Norwegian music drama, and the establishment of a fund where actors can search for funds. The fund sees them as a layer between the composer's union and the state. This I think is a good input that both the Storting and the Council should notice. Thirdly, the support schemes for the free and simple must be further developed. It is important for recruitment and innovation not only within the free field but also in the interest of institutions. My fourth and final point is on opera education. The Oslo Academy of Fine Arts occupies only four opera students every year, and it is at a time when the need for top qualified practitioners is rising all over the country. I have previously challenged the state councils on what he wants to contribute to ensuring quality and quantity before opera education in Norway, but my question was sent to the State Council for Research and Higher Education. I am aware that the Ministry of Knowledge is responsible for the follow-up to KHIO, but the Minister of Culture has a special responsibility to ensure the take-up of highly qualified cultural workers in this country. The need is increasing both in Oslo and elsewhere, among others. in the case of district operations. The quality of opera training in Norway must be strengthened. It is a political responsibility to ensure full quality in Norway, at the same level as that in Norway, for example. has in Denmark. I hope the Council of State can say something concrete about this. The Academy of Art in Oslo is planning a new opera programme in collaboration with the Norwegian Opera and the Norwegian Academy of Music. I hope this will strengthen the recruitment of highly qualified operators in Norway. Not least, we need highly qualified practitioners who master new and demanding contemporary expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e612	An opera building does not, of course, make us a cultural nation. I was in Bucuresti in Romania a little while ago, and there the taxi driver could tell me that the city of Bucuresti has three operas. What I had hoped for with this debate was to talk a little bit about having to make sure that there is a room for action in this field of innovation that makes it possible that not all the extra money we have allocated will be hanging up in a digital cable loft in Bjørvika - that the technique has confiscated the money that will go to innovation as well. But we have been told to wait for the Government's notice. He was not even willing to think loudly. I am concerned about the aspects that the representative Molvær Grimstad went up: that we both have an opera education or an art education in this area in which it is constantly being cut off, and which is being reduced. We have a conflict between the composers' organisations and the Opera, and we also experience that many of the regional operas feel that they have no room for action to develop anything new. Because it's no use having an opera house if we don't make sure to fill it with all the exciting things that are. I don't imagine you're just going to persuade the North to go to the Opera. You have to make Norway a nation that you travel on vacation to go to the Opera. This should be such an exciting scene that you don't just take pictures of the opera house when you come in by plane or by boat. In fact, it should also be that, in the eyes of friends, you boast that you've been on such an exciting stage as this one is. It requires that we make all of these parts grow together. It requires that there is a room for action for an innovation. But it also requires a long-term perspective far beyond a popular period and far beyond an annual goal for directors. We have to look at the fund thinking, but we also have to learn from other arts how we can manage to have such a long-term development. Making an opera is a craft. Many of our great opera composers wrote eight or ten operas before they were even considered to be the great good. We have to give today's composers the opportunity to write someone who is not so good, so that they can get to the really good ones. Then we need long-termity, and then we need long-termity in people's careers. It's not about anything you write in a little evening, it's about a big machine that needs to be started to take advantage of the artistic possibilities that are currently on the stage. I just get to dream that the council has taken these thoughts with me when he comes up with the message, and then we'll have to wait for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e625	I must almost say at the end of this debate that I do not remember in the picture that the interpellant describes. That the house in Bjørvika is a house where the money is primarily used for digital stage equipment, is as far from reality as it is possible to get. The 107 million. So we've increased the budget by 44 p.m., since the Bondevik government notices it -- it's going to employ more dancers, it's going to more musicians, it's going to singers, and of course, it's going to technical staff who are needed to run such a house, but it's going to go mainly to more performances and setups, with an ambition to double the audience. So this black paint of what they're doing in Bjørvika, I just don't agree. They do a formidable job with the resources they have. Many of them have made an extra formidable effort around the opening weeks in ours, and the performances they have had, both on the opera side and on the ballet side, have been very well received. Then we have also increased the budgets of the district operations. I think that's quite reasonable. When we bet 50 million. kr in Oslo only in 2008, the regional bets must also experience some corresponding increases, if not in nominal values so that they feel that they are also seen and taken care of. In particular, it is exciting what is happening in Bergen, where several institutions have joined together and combined the forces of the new opera, which has then been rewarded for it. Kristiansund is, of course, our flagship in the field of district operations. They also have a responsibility for the others in the resource effort. We get to hope that the politicians in Kristiansund will stick their legs and agree on what kind of premises they want to offer their opera. That's how exciting investigations take place, among other things. in Trondheim to do there something similar to what they do in Bergen, to gather the cancers. We're going to build up under it, but also the smaller Rings, Tromsø, and what's happening in Kristiansand and elsewhere, are exciting opera projects that it's probably worth supporting and following up. As far as education is concerned, as was said here, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Education and the Minister of Knowledge, as is the case in other fields. But we do not feel that there is a lack of applicants for jobs in the Opera. We feel that there is a good influx of people who actually want to work there. It is also true that although we may have relatively few opera students in Norway, there are a lot of Norwegian operatalents taking their high-level education abroad. It's worth taking with you, too. Some of them become international stars, but they also want to use their talent in the Norwegian Opera. So I think this should go very, very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e636	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e650	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e659	The representative proposal from Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Laila Davøy and Ola T. Loan owes to the simplification of the medical and health card system. There is a collective committee that agrees that there is a need for simplification of the current free card scheme, but the different parties have a slightly nuanced view of how to move forward and how to achieve the goal. The Government Party and the Right point out that the Government is working on introducing electronic free card/property, which will be a simplification. These parties will wait for this work. The Progress Party believes that the issue is related to the free card system, and suggests that a simplified system is introduced rather immediately. The Progress Party has its own proposals in hand. This results in the Left supporting the representative proposal from the Christian People's Party. I have no more to add, and at the end I will just say that I accept proposal No. 3, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e674	The representative Gunvald Ludvigsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e677	The background to this proposal, as you can read, is clearly to simplify a process and make it easier for people who benefit from it when it comes to the use of medicines. It is clear that for some people it is a simplification, among other things. to make a single payment at the beginning of the year, for the person who has the finances for it, in order to avoid over the rest of the year considering whether to keep receipts, whether to collect them and send them in at any time, and to operate and redeem the individual shares at all times. The proposal put forward here would obviously represent significant simplification. One has also previously, as it has been shown, had an experimental system associated with this way of doing it. I think that the trial scheme that was showed that those who benefited from it were very satisfied with that scheme. In the vote, the Progress Party has tabled two proposals. One thing is that you want to «introduce a system for paying on a voluntary basis the full amount of the own resources of medicinal products, certain health services and medical devices falling under self-employment I at the beginning of the year». We cannot see that it will be necessary to evaluate this or ask the Government to submit a proposal for such a scheme. We've had a trial plan on this. It's proven to be working. We then ask the Government - instead of proposing it - to introduce the scheme itself. Furthermore, there is another issue that arises at the same time. It's about those who like to use several kinds of medicine, and who at the beginning of the year then get a very big bill to pay as a propensity, before the amount reaches the end of the self-interest. For this group, especially for those who have a strenuous economy, it's a very big problem. Every year in the beginning of the year, we get feedback from people who are struggling with just this. That is why the Progress Party has put forward a proposal which reads as follows: ‘The Government of Sweden assessed the possibility of distribution over several months for those who, for economic reasons, have difficulties in paying them within the current system of payment of medical bills relating to medicinal products, certain health services and medical devices falling under self-interest I.’ Here we ask the government to investigate and look at this now. I hope the Council of State can say something about whether she can be willing to consider such things. But here, of course, we're going to have a good system in place, we're going to have a security for the individual, we're going to have computer programs that can deal with this, and it's not going to be too hard to increase the bureaucracy. I hope that the Council of State today can say that this is one of the things that you will at least look at and get evaluated. I am promoting our suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e702	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e705	I would just like to make a few comments on this proposal. I think the Christian People's Party has presented a proposal with an affordable intention, to simplify the free card system for medicines and health care. The right gives its full support to the assessments that the Christian People's Party has of the need for a simpler and more flexible system, primarily in the interests of the users. However, as we see it, this will be done through the new electronic free card system. This will also lead to a simplification of the NAV procedure. A free card will be assigned automatically when it has been reached. As we see it from the Right-hand side, it is reasonable that the credit card is granted only when actual expenditure is documented. However, we ask the Government to ensure that this system is put in place, which is one of the many modernisation measures that will improve healthcare for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e714	Many people know that in a year they will come up to the free-card limit on excesses for healthcare. It would be relevant for them to be able to pay the full amount of the credit card. A pilot project carried out in 2000-2001 showed that there were so-called major health care users who used the free card purchase scheme at the beginning of the year, i.e. people with a chronic disease or injury requiring regular medical follow-up. It turned out that both patients and employees at the social security office experienced this scheme as a simplification. In other words, the experiment was very successful. Such a scheme is today, everyone must collect receipts or have a gift card stamped. Then, together with a completed application form, the equity card must be submitted for reimbursement to the NAV central once the ceiling has been reached. The application form must sum up the receipts. The application form may also be delivered at the premises of the local NAV Office, which deals with the application, and then submit it to NAV centrally. Then the NAV centrally sends the free card home to the receiver. The current system could risk losing receipts and thus the possibility of reimbursement. Furthermore, the cost of health care may be increased after the application for reimbursement has been submitted, but before the free card has entered the post office. This means that you will have to resubmit claims for reimbursement of expenses and complete the application form. In other words, today's system is heavy, and for many, the excesses that they have to spend on waiting for a free card can be an economic burden. A press release from the Norwegian Pensioners’ Association of May 2007 points out that the scheme among several pensioners is so widespread that they leave it to apply for a free card. In the pilot scheme with the payment of a free card at the beginning of the year was 60 pst. by those who chose to make use of the scheme, over 67 years of age. It is also worth noting that the consumption of healthcare did not increase as a result of pre-payment of excess. The evaluation showed that the scheme had positive effects. Despite this, the system tested has not been put in place. Nor is the scheme planned. Instead, and according to a consultation note from the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare has developed another solution for electronic free card/property. According to St.prp. No 1 is the electronic free card solution planned for production during 2009. But with this new automatic solution, it will still take time from a patient when self-interested in a free card is received - perhaps longer than under today's system. The electronic solutions are a prerequisite for the government’s new electronic model for the issue of a free card to function properly. The decision makers will play a key role in reporting here. General practitioners have expressed concern about high connecting costs to the health network. This has meant that electronic solutions are very low in use by doctors today. There is also a «conflict» between the ministry and the doctors about the future use of electronic solutions, as I am well aware. These issues concern me, because it may take time from patients when the self-participation until they get the free card sent - probably longer than with today's system. We are therefore disappointed that the government cannot support the proposal to simplify the free card system and thus the everyday life of people with disease and injury - that is, the model that has been tested and that has worked well. Simplification and organisation of welfare systems are important to ensure that they are as good as possible for individuals. This could also be a simplification for health refund management employees. I would also like to point out that the Riksrevision pointed out that healthcare companies are well behind their own objectives of electronic exchange of patient information, so in this field there is a lot left in both the first- and second-line services. Finally, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left, I will present the following proposal: ‘The Government requests that a proposal be made by the Government for the introduction of a mechanism for the collection of the amount of equity and the receipt of a credit card at the beginning of the year.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e741	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e744	This issue concerns many people who have a demanding health situation. It is important to ensure that users do not become unnecessarily injured as a result of large outlays until they obtain self-interest and thus receive a free card, as several speakers have pointed out. Many chronically ill people already know at the beginning of the year that they will come up to the free-card limit on the abstinence of healthcare. The government will therefore consider whether a voluntary offer of a pre-paid card may be a way of shielding this group from unnecessary burdens, both economically and practically. As has been said here today, the testing schemes in 2000 and 2001 have shown positive results. I think we need to see this in the context of the introduction of an electronic free card solution, that is. free cards are automatically sent to users who have achieved self-interest. With such a solution, users do not have to submit receipts or provide stamps, because processors must submit the reimbursement requirements on behalf of the individual user. Such digitisation will also be able to release public resources, which are important in itself. However, an electronic free card solution may take a little longer before users receive their free card, as there may be delays in reporting from the processors. Therefore, we believe that a voluntary offer to purchase a pre-paid card would be of great help to large consumers of healthcare. NAV has done a good job of developing the electronic free card solution and is now considering the possibility of opening up the pre-purchase of a free card. It has not yet been fully clarified when the electronic free-card solution can be put into operation. We'll get closer to that. The Government will consider whether the pre-purchase of a free card should be undertaken at the same time as the electronic free card solution or whether the pre-purchase of a free card should be offered manually until the electronic solution is in place. It is important that pre-purchase does not lead to significant increases in the use of healthcare or lead to significant negative consequences. Therefore, it will also be necessary to review any progeny effects of such a measure. We'll get back to this in connection with the state budget next year. In the first instance, pre-sales by electronic means will only apply to self-sales vouchers 1. Whether the scheme is also to be introduced for self-share card 2 will be assessed in the context of the next year’s government budget. I also think it is natural to see whether such a pre-purchase can be offered throughout the year, and not only at the beginning of each calendar year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e765	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e769	I'll be very quick and not extend the debate that much. But in my post, I challenged the Council of State to look at the possibility of dividing the proportion over several months than is the case today, because at the start of the year, some people have problems coping with the costs. Especially if you have a combination of several types of preparations related to helsa, you often get this bill on top - i.e. full effect. So my question is about the state council while now she will assess the purchase of a free card at the beginning of the year, and will also assess the other way, so that there can be a solution for those who have poor finances.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e774	Yeah, that's also of the things we'll evaluate. At the end of my post I also said that in the case of pre-purchase, we assess whether it should also be offered throughout the year and not only at the beginning of the calendar year. That is also in view of what the representative here is referring to. So the answer is yes, we're also going to look into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e779	I have a question. As far as I know, there has been a proposal out of consultation now regarding the introduction of the model that the department is working on. Is it true that there are major problems - whether they concern the General Medical Association or the doctors - related to the use of electronic solutions? We know today that there are problems associated with this somewhere. Although some of the experts have started to use a part of this, I understand that many people are struggling. What's this really going to be in?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e784	I am not quite sure if I can answer that quite clearly. But what I believe the representative is aiming for, as the Medical Association - or at least parts of the Medical Association - has been concerned about, partly disagreed with, is what the Government has announced in our ICT strategy is that doctors should be able to press a key and then get it out electronically, and the relationship with NAV. There's enough nuances and some disagreement between the Medical Association and the Government about what we now want to introduce. But we're having a good dialogue with the Medical Association, because I think we all have a common interest in, no matter what side of the table we're sitting on, finding more effective solutions for the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e789	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e809	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3379]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e827	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3379]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e845	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3379]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e863	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3379]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e876	Before Stortinget goes to voting, State Council Sylvia Brustad will present 4 kgl. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e884	Propositions will be managed in accordance with the regulations. Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e894	During the debate, Mr Hagen has presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Annunciation by Tore Sandberg, requesting that the Supreme Court be ordered to bring an action against the Magnus Matningsdal, Eilert Stang Lund and Karin Bruzelius on the occasion of the hearing of the High Court's Committee of Appeal on 14 October 2003 in the Fritz Moen case, shall be forwarded to the Management Committee of the Stortinges with a request to carry out the necessary investigations with a view to clarifying the basis for liability, cf. Law on the Procedure of the Court of Justice of 5 February 1932 No. 2.’» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Enquiry from Tore Sandberg with a request for an appeal against the Supreme Court judgements of Magnus Matningsdal, Eilert Stang Lund and Karin Bruzelius on the occasion of the hearing of the High Court's Committee of Appeal on 14 October 2003 in the Fritz Moen case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e915	In Case No. 2 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e923	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, No. 3, from Gunvald Ludvigsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e935	The Council of State has expressed in both its statement and in the change of line with the undersigned that what appears in proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party, will be taken care of by the Council of State. We therefore want to draw proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e940	Proposal No. So 2 is subtracted from the Progress Party. There will be a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to put in place a system for paying on a voluntary basis the full amount of the excess in respect of medicines, certain health services and medical devices falling under self-employment I at the beginning of the year.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e957	Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government requests that a proposal be made by the Government for the introduction of a mechanism for the collection of the amount of equity and the receipt of a credit card at the beginning of the year.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The President expects the Progress Party to support the proposal in a subsidiary way. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:67 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e984	A vote will be taken on proposals by Vigdis Giltun of the Progress Party from the Odelsting meeting on 8 May 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a formalised user representative for persons who are unable to meet their own needs for services, including age and persons with a mental retardation, in the context of the Patient and User Ombudsman Scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e1003	A vote will be taken on proposals by Vigdis Giltun of the Progress Party from the Odelsting meeting on 8 May 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the new Patient and User Ombudsman is provided with sanctions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e1022	A vote will be taken on proposals by Vigdis Giltun of the Progress Party from the Odelsting meeting on 8 May 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the new patient and user Ombudsman regime with several posts so that the waiting time for handling cases does not increase.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e1041	A vote will be taken on proposals by Vigdis Giltun of the Progress Party from the Odelsting meeting on 8 May 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the inclusion of dental care in the new Patient and Consumer Ombudsman Scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-27.ana.ud2048e1152	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to Paragraph 37(a) of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure? - The meeting's over.
