ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e41	We are dealing with today Ot.prp. No 43 for 2007-2008, on the law on amendments to the law on co-operation. There has been criticism of today's electoral system. In particular, the criticism has come from the constituencies which are under-represented in the Sameting in relation to the number of crews. The amendments in this case are based on the report of a selection committee, the Cell Committee, set up by the Sametinget in agreement with the Ministry. The committee was set up on the basis of a common desire for an overall investigation into the voting system of the Sameting, among others. should be aimed at clarifying the need for a change in constituencies and changing the number of representatives of the various constituencies. The role of the Cell Committee was to assess the electoral system in order to strengthen the legitimacy of the Confession and the opening-up of the elections. In addition, the sample was asked to look specifically at the representativeness of the Sameting, in particular in terms of gender. The purpose of the committee has been to propose electoral provisions which take into account, as far as possible, specific challenges both in the individual Sami regions and in the Sami community as a whole. In its report, the committee states that it has paid particular attention to ensuring real representation from all over the country and, in particular, from the different traditional Sami settlement areas. With regard to the individual legislative amendments, there is broad consensus in the Committee on these, with the exception of the Progress Party, which has its own comments. The number of constituencies is now reduced from thirteen to seven. Eleven of today's constituencies are thus merged into five. The two southernmost constituencies, the South Same region and South Norway, are excluded from the merger, because they are already geographically large in scope and consist of a large number of municipalities. A majority of the committee also advocates that today's two constituencies, Kautokeino and Karasjok, are merged with Porsanger Municipalities from constituency 5 Porsanger to one constituencies. Here, left and right have gone into another circuit division, which I'll get back to. The new electoral system will not be able to resolve the need for representation for all groups of cohabitants, regardless of the size of the group. The responsibility for ensuring the breadth of representation will thus lie with those implementing the nomination processes. The number of representatives in the Sameting is now reduced from 43 to 39 and the balancing mandates mechanism is repealed. With regard to the distribution of mandates, it implies that there will be at least two mandates in each of the seven constituencies. After the 14 mandates guaranteed have been allocated, the other 25 are allocated using the odd number method. For the South Norway constituency, there is an exceptional rule that will improve the distribution of mandates for constituencies with smaller regional groups, such as the lulese and southern groups. Another change to the law is that there will be a restriction on the right to vote on election day in municipalities with fewer than 30 headcounts. For certain municipalities, therefore, it will only be possible to vote in advance. Municipalities with more than 30 voting rights will now make a preliminary count of local votes in the municipalities. It should be set up to report to the common electronic election night system in the same way as is done for the rollover choice. One of the amendments adopted today is that the term ‘count of the members’ is replaced by the term ‘vote’. It is important to clarify that the census is not a register of the Sami population, but an electorate for voting in the merger elections. As rapporteur of the case, I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement on these changes in the law of union. I hope that they will be able to strengthen the legitimacy of the Union and to increase the opening-up of the elections in the future. As regards the breakdown of the constituencies, the members of the Committee from the Left and Right propose changes to the division into two of the constituencies, sections 2 and 3. We believe that it will be very important to be able to have a balance between coast and inland also in these constituencies - perhaps especially in these constituencies. Collecting inner Finnland, with Kautokeino, Karasjok and Porsanger, i.e. the largest Sami settlement areas, in one constituencies, will, in our opinion, be instrumental in strengthening coastal-inland polarisation rather than in reconciling and developing. With today's conflicts between the coasts and the inlands of Finnmark and between the different ethnic groups in the state, it is incredibly important that we, as politicians, whether we sit in local governments, in the county of Finnmark, in the county of Sametinget, or in the county of Stortinget, make arrangements that can contribute to a greater understanding, transparency and a better understanding and climate between the different population groups in our county. When we hear on May 27th this year, in 2008, from a member of one of the government parties, Olav Gunnar Ballo from SV, that the reindeer does not have the right to life, and when a new report from the Children's Ombudsman shows that Sami children and young people feel bullied, yes, we have a long way to go. This looks left and right. We therefore propose that constituency 2, Ávjovári constituency, consist of the municipalities of Karasjok, Porsanger, Nordkapp, Måsøy, Kvalsund and Hammerfest in Finnmark, and constituency 3, northern constituency, shall consist of the municipalities of Kautokeino, Alta, Hasvik and Loppa in Finnmark and the municipalities of Skjervøy, Kväningen and Nordreisa in Troms County, and I take up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e82	The representative Vera Lightcloth has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e85	When the Law of Society was passed more than 20 years ago, it was a very important step on the way to safeguarding the rights of the Sami peoples in Norway. This resulted, among other things, in: bringing together the right as a people to organise and establish representative institutions. The first merger was held two years later, i.e. in 1989. The conspiracy has obviously had - and, to be honest, it has - great significance, especially in terms of the development of Sami languages, culture and business. The conspiracy also gives Sami interests extra weight in the meeting with the big community at all levels. In line with the discussions we have about democracy in the election process in relation to the election process in relation to the election process in relation to the election process, state and local elections, the legitimacy of the whole thing depends on the same thing. A democratically representative body will be able to perform its function fully only if the digestion is high enough. I am therefore pleased that the Government has followed up the advice of the Cell Committee by proposing changes to the law of union that will facilitate a higher opening up to the merger elections. Not least this applies to the division of new constituencies. There has been a bias in the number of votes behind each representative. This has not least led people in the densely populated Sami areas to feel that they have not been adequately represented. So, as the rapporteur, Vera Lysklätt, has explained, the Left and the Right propose a different division of the electoral circuits than the majority advocated. We in the Workers' Party and those who otherwise make up the majority of the Committee state that the Sameting Seas want these new constituencies, and they have also been consulted by sea. I see no reason why we from Stortinget should review the proposal of the Sametinget seaboard. What is it that suggests that we here at Stortinget should know better what the Sameting and the Conspiracy is best served with than just the Sameing Seam? Why does the Right and Left Sameness not respect their own recommendation? Now, when we add to fewer constituencies, a new mathematical method of calculation, and the removal of the system of equalization mandates, it's to hope that both the dissolution of the merger election and the legitimacy of the Conspiracy will increase. It is important for many reasons, not least in view of Norwegian democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e96	Today, Odelstingen will decide on proposals for changes to the law of union, in order to strengthen and make it more democratic and representative, as it is clear from the point of view of the matter. It's a task even Odelstinget is not able to do it, precisely because a popular assembly put together on an ethnic basis can never have full legitimacy in a population. So there's an ethnic background that is the basis for voting rights for merger elections. There is an ethnic background that is the guiding principle behind the Sameting and the policy put forward by the Stortinget in that context. Therefore, in the view of the Progress Party, it is completely impossible to create legitimacy around such an institution. We also see that in North Norway, where we are constantly experiencing more and more conflicts and issues surrounding the special rights granted by Stortinget as a group over several decades. It's just to mention examples like the Kirkenes, where the government has great ambitions about north-eastern areas, but where FeFo sets strong limits on the development of nutrition and the use of new land, despite the fact that land should not be a problem in Finnmark. We see the same thing in a number of other places in North Norway, where the Sami special interests are holding back and hindering the development of nutrition and the development of new jobs, and simply creating conflicts that, in my opinion, are completely unnecessary. Even a short time ago, Sametinget has been given the right to object to plans, which will make this process even more difficult in North Norway. My appeal to the other parties in Stortinget is as follows: Listen to their own! Listen to their own people in the three northernmost states in particular! Listen to their local people elected in Finnmark, for there is a completely different view of the policy of the Stortinget in this area than the parties stand for in this big business. This applies to the Working Party as well as to the Right. The opposition to FeFo has grown considerably after the experience gained in recent years, and in its extension there is also a completely different attitude towards the Sametinget and the other special rights granted by Stortinget together. So when the representative Ballo comes up with statements that Left tries to criticize him for--for he comes after all from SV, and it's unheard that a person from SV should have such positions-- it's an expression of frustration that very many people in the northernmost states feel about the special treatment that Stortinget has put up for when it comes to gathering. I am also fully behind the representative Ballo's reasoning. Today we are going to decide on a technical change in the law of union. For the Progress Party, it is not crucial whether it is one or the other that is being adopted - there are therefore two different proposals taken up from different parties - because it will not make any difference as to the legitimacy of the Sameting at least in the Nordic population. The Progress Party is going to go against both proposals, and we are also going to take the opportunity to vote against the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e113	For a while I was very in doubt as to the matter in which the representative Amundsen had made his statement. At least I'm just going to add some comments to the bill that we're now dealing with. We will have ample opportunity to discuss the whole of the common policy, for example. when dealing with the communication on common policies, which has just been presented. When we're challenged to listen to our own, I can tell you that I've had a meeting with the Finnmark Workers' Party about the message, and at least they expressed very strong support for the way the Government now thinks about common policies. So also in that way I have a good conscience. But then to the matter. I'm not going to go into the many technical aspects of the case, which are also about doing something about the way the constituencies in Sametinget are divided into, what kind of model to have for the allocation of mandates, rules on minimum representation in order to ensure smaller Sami groups, such as. the midterms, and the whole of the new Sameeting electoral system. But what makes me take the floor is that I think one of the most important things in the common policy is the consultation system. All the favors of the previous government, which by means of a royal resolution got in place that we now have a duty to consult - that is, something more than hearing - the whole thing when we adopt matters that are important to people and their organs. Of course, we have consulted the Sameting about the proposition we are dealing with today. The bill is largely designed by the Sameting itself, and we have, as I said, carried out thorough consultations. The proposal promoted by the Government has an almost unanimous decision in the Sameting behind it, and the Government has chosen to place decisive emphasis on the Sameeting's positions and arguments. The issues of the electoral system of the Sameting which the proposition deals with must be said to have a particularly significant impact on the community as a whole. The matter is about the internal political organisation of the group, and in such a case, in the view of the Government, there shall be particularly serious reasons for failing to follow up the view of the group, especially when the views are as broad as in this case. With that in mind, I have to say that I am somewhat incomprehensible to the proposal from the Left and the Right - that is, the parties who have participated in the consultation process - in a matter which then affects the organization of the whole thing, and where the points of view of the whole thing are so strong. The fact that two so big and important parties choose to try out the Odelstinget Sameting, I think it's spectacular, and I'm very happy that it doesn't have a majority in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e122	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 566]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e138	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes for each group and 10 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from the main speakers from each group and five replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - That's to look at as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e147	Today, the Stortinget adopts a ban on discrimination on grounds of disability, while at the same time imposing a requirement for buildings, installations and outdoor areas to be universally designed. The cinema without wheelchair access, the NAV office without a lift, the railway platform with too much distance between trains and the platform is no longer something we can only complain and then be done with it. Now there's a crime that can be prosecuted. It is a major political and societal advance for all citizens when people with disabilities are now given legal tools to promote their cause and to exploit their potential as a resource-intensive group in working, social and cultural life. To quote the purpose paragraph: ‘The law shall contribute to the reduction of social barriers to disability and prevent the creation of new ones. ‘... The Manneråk Committee, named after its leader Sigurd Manneråk, presented its investigation ‘From User to Citizens’ in 2002. It has taken some years before we get the law that follows their innovative approach, where the lack of organisation for people with disabilities was seen as discrimination on the part of society. In 2005, the follow-up was carried out by the Legal Committee, or the Syse Committee, named after the head of Aslak Syse, who is the basis for the law we are dealing with today. There is a far-reaching attitude behind today's law, and it has been thought of meeting strong, competent and speaking representatives of people with disabilities who have asked us to think more about gender equality, education and labour market policy and not only social policy on their behalf. Their long-term work now leads to the adoption of the Discrimination and Accessibility Act today. But don't think it'll be quiet with this. I already know the breath in the neck of the good activists in the matter. This is not the last word in the work to promote equality and equal rights to social participation, but it's a sign that we've taken a big and fundamental step forward. We focus on the many people who get their disabled function unnecessarily enlarged because of the societal barriers to disability. That is what the law and today's debate are about. Societal physical barriers can be reconstructed and it is a crucial contribution to creating equality and equality and ensuring equal opportunities and rights of participation for all, ‘independent of function’, as stated in the purpose paragraph of the Act. As rapporteur, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for their constructive work. I feel that this is being seen as an important matter for everyone, and a significant effort has been made to find legal wording and solutions that guarantee the rights of people with disabilities. We've ended up with a collective attitude in the big, but where the parties share their views on how some challenges can best be solved. That is what we must accept in a democratic society. I would also like to thank our fresh Anti-Discrimination Ministry, which last autumn was responsible for getting the legal work done in terms of targets after the area was moved from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. It was done a good foundation work earlier, I believe, but I have enjoyed the enthusiasm of the political leadership of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and their willingness to produce an offensive and good law. Very many departments have a co-responsibility for the legal process and the follow-up to the law, for example. Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Renewal and Administration, Ministry of Knowledge and, still, Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. When examining the new law on planning and building for the harvest and the treatment of the national transport plan, which we do not get until next year, the Stortinget will have new opportunities to prove that we are committed to giving the anti-discrimination work a real boost in the future. Let me comment on some of the most central issues we address in the Committee's position: Norway has so far not ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Additional Protocol No. 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights, which deals with discrimination. Through today's decision on the Discrimination and Availability Act, we take an important step towards obtaining the law we need before these agreements can be ratified, but there is also work to be done. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality will launch an investigation into the regulation of the supply of goods and services, and the need for legislative changes in this area will be assessed in the context of the UN Convention. The majority of the Committee stresses the importance of high priority given to this work in order to be able to ratify the Convention, but of course above all in order to bring forward anti-discrimination work in an area which the legislative committee did not address in its investigation. The majority of the Committee welcomes the fact that in several areas the Government has followed input from the consultation round by tightening up the legal provisions in relation to the legislative committee’s proposal. The objective paragraph has been reinforced by the addition of the term ‘equity’ to the concept of ‘ equality’ in terms of ensuring opportunities and rights for participation in society. The prohibition of indirect discrimination in the legislative proposal is made clear and universal design obligations make it clear that a specific person is not required to be affected by a lack of organisation for stakeholder organisations or supervisory authorities to intervene. The government also introduces reporting obligations related to the provisions on the obligation of activity in the labour market. The Government has followed up a minority proposal from the Syse Committee on deadlines for the introduction of universal design requirements for new and existing information and communication technologies. This is a very central area for giving people with disabilities the right to participate in social and work life, and is therefore an important extension of the legal basis. The universal design and individual organisation obligations are defined in the Act against measures which impose a disproportionate burden on the public and private enterprises covered by the Act. In the consultation round, several organisations have expressed their nervousness that the law, as it has been presented, will be able to justify that the economic sustainability of each activity alone will determine whether universal design obligations and individual organisation can be waived by reference to the exceptions provided for in Sections 9 and 12 of the Act. Organisations have wanted the exemption provisions to be designed by requiring a two-stage analysis which first assesses and explains the effectiveness and suitability of the organisation for building disability barriers. In the next stage, other assessments, such as the cost of the organisation, the resources of the establishment, the safety considerations and the protection interests, shall be presented. The Committee has placed great emphasis on these recordings, and I am pleased to point out that in the vote we have made the necessary changes to paragraphs 9 and 12 of the law to ensure that the provisions on disproportionate burden have been designed so that the effectiveness of the action to reduce disability barriers is investigated before explaining the costs of the action and other considerations. I see that as an important clarification of the work we have done in the committee. While the Committee broadly agrees on how the law should be designed to ensure the universal design of new buildings, facilities, outdoor areas and means of transport, we have different approaches to how to correct yesterday's mistakes, how to ensure that existing buildings, pavements, transport terminals, trains and buses are also upgraded over time. The majority of the Committee endorses the Government’s proposal that this be best addressed through a priority and graduated approach, with a view to taking the most important and most cost-effective approach. Then someone will be afraid that missing deadlines in the law we adopt today can lead to the work of correcting old sins not giving the necessary priority. I understand this concern, and I think the majority of the committee understands it, and that we will therefore be on guard so that the concern does not in some way become a witness to the truth that we should do it differently. But we know that the government is already preparing regulations and an action plan to follow up. Time limits or not deadlines are not essential. This is about the willingness to prioritise the universal design of existing buildings, facilities, outdoor areas and means of transport. That will has the majority, and I feel that the will is very well documented by the Government. So I'm sure this is a proper approach in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e182	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e185	The majority of the Syse Committee proposed to introduce deadlines for both new and existing buildings, installations and outdoor areas. That's not what the government wanted. The case rapporteur said that you should be on guard, and that you had the will to carry this out. The experience of our committee in the United States shows that making demands on the timing of implementation has been very good. This has led to large availability of buildings over there. I hope that, as soon as possible, we will also have access to Norway at the level they have there. Why does the Government not want to introduce deadlines?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e190	It is well documented that this is an extensive piece of work. A priority and graduated approach will allow us to take the most important thing first. Then I understand, as I said in my post, that you can be nervous that the fact that deadlines are not set in the law now can lead to a break in the follow-up. But there I feel quite safe. Today I have been in contact with the Ministry of Transport, where I have received long investigations into the work that is going on just how to approximate the provisions on graduated and priority implementation of existing means of transport. Similarly, when we receive the Law of Planning and Building for treatment in the autumn, the Ministry of Local Affairs will do so. The knowledge is not the deadlines, but that important work is done as quickly as possible. Time-limits in the future can also be a rest cushion, so that nothing happens, and we have to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e197	The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left together promote seven proposals for improvement in this area. One of these proposals is that the state and the public are very large buyers in Norway. Thus, government procurement policy will also have a major impact on how private companies design, design, produce and develop knowledge in relation to the universal design. The minority proposes that the Government ensure that universal design requirements are incorporated into public tenders. Why are the government parties going against this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e202	As I said at the outset, I feel that the entire committee has an offensive attitude to do the right things. In some areas, probably the minority have switched on some open doors. The one who reads the setting will also see that we are commenting on this precisely with the need to incorporate universal design requirements into public tenders. When, for example: as regards means of transport, it has already been done. It is inside, and it is described how this is taken care of in the work done and done by the Government to adapt to the new requirements laid down in the law. So this won't go away, even if we don't join the proposal Höie refers to. It is simply documented that this is being taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e207	During the hearing, the lack of deadlines was an important point of appeal against the law. The Christian People's Party supports that need. But we agree that new buildings should be universally designed from 1 July 2009. The Christian People's Party believes that this is an exact deadline. After the deadline, this objective cannot be delayed by pointing out that it is a disproportionate burden. Is the representative of the Central Party in agreement with such an interpretation, or can it be risked that new buildings will not be arranged early enough, because the deadline is not exact, which creates uncertainty for users?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e212	The deadline to be set in the Planning and Building Act will be discussed in November. But that is said on 1 July 2009, and I hope you can see that it can be maintained. But during 2009 there will be an exact deadline. Then there is a question of ‘disproportionate burden’ not to apply to new measures. The law does not make such an exception. It is therefore also important to clarify how to assess the ‘disproportionate burden’ and to assess the impact on disabled people first before carrying out these analyses on all the other aspects that could prevent the implementation of all those measures. However, the design of the law is that ‘disproportionate burden’ will also apply to new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e219	The cord shift is over. [[Buing from the gallery, and a man shouts, "Bluffmakers! ']]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e225	10 June 2008 will enter history as a new brand day in the development of the Norwegian welfare society. The new Discrimination and Availability Act emphatically states that discrimination on the grounds of disability is prohibited hereafter. Society shall be made available to all. It's about equality and equivalency. Social barriers to equal rights and opportunities for participation in education, professional life and leisure shall be actively reduced and new barriers hindered. Society shall be universally designed, for all, supplemented by individual arrangements where necessary. It concerns construction, civil engineering and outdoors. It's about ICT, which we're totally dependent on in almost all areas of society. It concerns transportation, education, kindergartens, access to important public services, workplaces and leisure arenas, which most of us take for granted, but where some have always been effectively excluded from participation. In short, it's about being involved in what everyone else takes for granted. In particular, it must be for children and young people with disabilities to be excluded from the activities of the flock of friends. Many are later referred to a long life as passive social security recipients. The taskbar has not been for them. It is probably not about bad will, rather about the lack of awareness of decision-makers at all levels, from policy-makers, employers, trade unions, etc. Norway has ratified or signed what is part of international conventions in the field of discrimination. However, the few of them explicitly mention functional capacity as a basis for discrimination, and instead refer to ‘other status’ or ‘other status’. It's now going to be a change of, through the new UN Convention. There is evidence of an increased awareness of the need to have a special focus on the situation of people with disabilities. The Discrimination and Availability Act shows the same thing here at home. There have been many investigations and one action plan has replaced the other under changing governments. So when the status of the current action plan was established in 2006, we spent 200 million. SEK in the year, 52 measures were carried out, 136 started and two started - but with no special results. Unfortunately, Norway has come very short in this work compared with other countries, but with some honourable exceptions, for example. the municipality of Kristiansand. Work has been largely sectored and little systematic. So you're going to need a stronger lye. In the report «Full participation for all? Trends between 2001 and 2006 » are scarce, but conjecture: after Manneråk, five years and the same length. Mannåk concluded that only 47 pst. In 2000, the number of people with disabilities was increased. In 2006 it was under 46 pst. In the field of transport, the trend towards general downskilling, automation and thus fewer opportunities for assistance went. Service offers were removed or resulted in extra payment. The economic living conditions are still 75 p.m. by the general population. Only 7 pst. of the Norwegian housing stock is fully available. In the field of ICT, concrete criteria on what universal design really is about are lacking. Actually, today's status is a defeat for the welfare community, so far. A small example: captioning movies in cinemas, reasonable and fully possible. So it's coming now, with new technology, over the next few years. Another example: the railway works say that the universal design of their facilities does not entail additional costs if the requirement has been given before design. Well, why does it even have to be required then? And why isn't it done long ago? The railway works are not to be suspended here. They just merge into the sequence of all of them, or we, other people who don't think about us. This is followed by a lack of concern about the law's prohibition of discrimination. Clear deadlines shall be set and the law shall be enforced actively. In the work on the law, there has been cooperation and contact with several organisations of the disabled. They have helped to improve the law on a number of points - a clearer objective, a lower threshold for action against discrimination, duty of activity and reporting obligations, deadlines for ICT, transport. Although not all the first requests have been met now, it was nevertheless very positive to have the organisations at the hearing. Everyone was, generally speaking, satisfied. New planning and building laws must work together with the Discrimination Act. In this context, it is important that both municipalities and counties draw up comprehensive plans for the universal design of their communities. It'll give you faster results. Kristiansand has done what Oslo is doing. It also offers good opportunities for the local participation of people with disabilities. This, combined with regulations and a new action plan from the Government, which is the most important one, must have the ambition for Norway to go from jumbo to world leaders in inclusion. And the law is the first step on this path.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e240	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e243	The Labour Party and SV have for a long time demanded a law against discrimination against people with disabilities. It's been very good. Now it comes - after three years in government. But in the hearing and in meeting with the organisations, it is clear that the worst thing that could happen is that the law was passed without deadlines. There is also, unfortunately, the result after the treatment in the government, with a red-green majority. It is also contrary to the promises before the elections. But perhaps even worse, it is contrary to the agreement called the Soria Moria Declaration, where the promise was ‘a law against discrimination against disabled persons and commitment to availability’. Then my question is, why don't you fulfill the promise you've made?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e250	I believe that Kenneth Svendsen has lost an important point in the work on this law. It is correct, as Kenneth Svendsen says, that the law does not contain deadlines for existing buildings and installations, etc. But it contains deadlines for new things in combination with the Planning and Building Act. It contains deadlines for new and old ICT. And so it's explicitly said, both from the platform here, in the proposition and in the vote, that during 2009 there will be a regulation, not with one deadline, but with differentiated deadlines. However, there must be binding deadlines also for old constructions, transport, etc. I would say that it is better with realism and priority in a regulation and an action plan with local anchoring, which ensures that what we set of deadlines is realistic, than putting unrealistic deadlines into a law and then letting it go, so that nothing happens, as we have seen up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e257	The government parties have a goal that everyone should be included. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party and the other two government parties vote against Norwegian films on TV and cinema being put to the vote. This excludes more than half a million people with hearing impairment from participating in important cultural activities. This is'reasonable and fully possible', said the representative of Christoffersen in his speech. The State grant scheme covers the costs of subtitling Norwegian films. Yet this happens to a very small degree. Is it acceptable for the representative to investigate this further now, when he knows the need so clearly and financial resources are available? Why does one push this further out in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e264	No, I don't think it's acceptable that we don't have subtitles on TV and on Norwegian film. That is why I am pleased that there is already an investigation in the Ministry of Culture and the Church regarding TV. In the case of Norwegian films in cinema, we have also had some rounds with the Ministry of Culture and the Church after the comments that are in the setting today were written. We have been assured that when the new technology comes to the cinemas, namely digitalisation - which is coming - we have also received clear assurances that, in the next two years, Norwegian cinematographic captioning will also be in place. We also thought initially that there was money for subtitling Norwegian films as the technology is per. Today, but it turned out that it didn't. There was an additional cost of $5 million. kr that we were not aware of initially, but that the department has given us information about. But this is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e271	The representative, Sundsbø, pointed out that one should be on guard for deadlines. The representative of Christoffersen says we're going to do this further. In a comment in the file before us today, the majority refers to the Joint Organisation of Disability and says at the end of its comment: ‘The JRC specifically calls for deadlines for existing buildings, installations and means of transport. ‘... Does the representative of Christoffersen think that it is satisfactory if one is just going to move forward gradually, without having any clarity in when it is going to be? This could mean that someone would then postpone as long as they can according to the law that we have, and that in many ways we are happy to have received. Does she see that paradox?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e283	No, I do not see that paradox at all, because when the regulation comes - that is, during 2009, it is said - differentiated deadlines are to be set. It must be anchored locally. And one should take things in order and order and in order that what's most urgent should also be given priority first. This may mean that there may be different deadlines for the same type of construction, e.g., from one municipality to another, depending on the main local challenge. With us in this work, we also want to have the organisations of disabled people locally and regionally, because they have a unique competence in where they print most in their own municipality and in their own region. The fact that there are no exact deadlines in the law now for old things does not mean that there should be no deadlines. But that means that there will be more realistic deadlines than a deadline set so far in time that we will in a way be sure that it will last. It will, in my opinion, only act as an additional sleeping cushion, where everyone is only waiting until that time limit approaches.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e292	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e295	The proposal for a new anti-discrimination law is an important law, which, in a better way than today’s legislation, will promote equality, ensure equal opportunities and rights and prevent discrimination due to reduced disability. The Progress Party mainly supports the intention of the law. In particular, the Progress Party will emphasise and support the overall objective of the law, which is that all citizens, regardless of disability, should be given the opportunity to participate in working and social life, in line with disability. However, it needs to be clarified that, in addition to the individual's right to participate in different forms of social life, the inclusion of people with reduced disability is of great importance for society, because it frees important human resources for working life, education, volunteering, culture and the rest of society. Many indicate that the cost of implementation of universal design is high. However, one must also take into account that the savings resulting from reduced costs of disability, reduced use of the TT system and reduced costs of special transport will also be significant when society becomes available to all. But perhaps the most important thing of all is that a large group of people who are currently excluded get to participate in society in a much better way. The universal design of new buildings and means of public communication is positive and necessary and will be one of the main instruments for the inclusion of disabled persons. But we're just in the beginning. We have a long way to go before we reach the goal. On the other hand, the party of progress is disappointed that the Government does not apply deadlines to the universal design of existing buildings. Without such deadlines, it will take many decades for these buildings to become accessible to all. The Progress Party is aware that adaptations to existing buildings will lead to costs for the owners. That is why we want a financing mechanism in which costs are shared between the owners and the public. Such a financial instrument could be the creation of a fund, an estimate of the state budget or a split-up between state, county and municipality. The progress party is also pleased to talk about disability as a key concept in relation to disability. Disability means loss of or damage to a part of the body or to one of the functions of the body where this creates a barrier to participation in the working or social life in general. In a legal context, it is necessary to assess the functional level up to each individual situation. Therefore, the progress party joins the definition of disability, which in this context is defined as follows: ‘The suspension occurs when there is a gap between the individual’s assumptions and the environment’s requirements. The relative understanding is that the experience of being disabled depends on disability and functional level requirements in the given situation. ‘... The Progress Party believes it is important that the Anti-Discrimination Act be divided into two main themes: accessibility and discrimination. Lack of accessibility should not necessarily relate to discrimination but may have entirely different natural causes. It is therefore important that it is a law of discrimination and a law of accessibility. Among the employee organisations and the organisations of the disabled, there is a broad consensus that the general organisation/universal design obligation must relate to the general function of the enterprise. Universal design is not new. The existing Law on Planning and Building has long provided for accessibility. This has had little effect, mainly because the law lacks deadlines and has wide scope for exemption. With the government's proposal, it will still be completely unpredictable when and where an obstacle of both the legal and the physical nature of a PRM will occur, leading to the law becoming less complete. This is also contrary to the Soria Moria Declaration, where the promise was ‘a law against discrimination against disabled persons and a binding timetable for accessibility’. Without deadlines for existing buildings, private and public, disabled people will in practice only have access to public buildings. The Progress Party therefore supports proposals for existing buildings to be available by 2025 - while setting up a fund so that we can get this financed and that it becomes real. Due to the longevity of most means of transport, a continuous exchange of materials will take place, leading to the availability of most means of transport within a relatively short period of time. It is a little different with trains, ferries and passenger boats. When we discussed the proposal for a representative No. 8:27 for 2006-2007 that new Lysaker station is adapted to the principles of universal design, cf. Inner. S. No 145 for 2006-2007, the Minister of Transport’s letter of reply indicated that railway stations had to be designed to adapt to the widest train equipment. It is very unfortunate that long-life stations are adapted to relatively short-lived train equipment. This makes the need for standardisation linked to universal accessibility visible to all through universal design. The progress party refers to Innst. S. No 143 for 2006-2007 on the activities of NSB AS for the period 2007-2009 and it appears positive that the Government of the new framework agreement with the NSB has determined that the train offer should be designed to make the most of the offer in a regular and equivalent manner. However, the Progress Party considers that the Government of the purchase agreement with the NSB should, in addition, impose more specific requirements on the availability of new trains and on the upgrading of existing material. Therefore, binding requirements should be made to make existing material available, and concrete universal design requirements for all purchases made by NSB during the period should be part of such a purchase agreement. The Ministry of Transport and the NSB have a responsibility to make new and existing material available to disabled persons. It is precisely in public procurement contracts that concrete and binding requirements for better accessibility for disabled persons can and should be made. We are also promoting this. It was disappointing to read an article in the Evening Post on 16 October 2005, which states that the requirements of the Grand Duchy for universal access to all have not been specifically taken into account in almost any of the railway installations to be built during the railway planning period up to 2015. The reason is that projects completed before 2006 do not have to comply with these requirements, according to the Railway Agency. The Progress Party believes that this testifies to a lack of respect for Storting's decision and a reluctance to change to modern demands. It is very unfortunate that projects are being launched today that are contrary to the objectives adopted in the transport policy. That is why we are also promoting a proposal for a review of all projects in the railway sector and for one to ensure that these meet the requirement of accessibility for all through universal design. The government is proposing an activity and reporting obligation. The Progress Party agrees that all businesses have an obligation to work actively, targeted and planned to promote the objective of the Discrimination and Accessibility Act, but disagrees with the majority in the implementation of the Activity and Reporting obligation. An ECON report shows that businesses are charged more red tape and more costs without any demonstrable impact. The Progress Party agrees that the accessibility and discrimination of enterprises is important and that the work to ensure that they are not forgotten is described in a separate section of the annual reports of the enterprise. I am addressing the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals to which we are advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e336	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e342	The representative Svendsen addressed a major criticism of the Government in his speech because this law does not now set time limits for existing constructions, although he knows that it will come through action plans and regulations to the Law on Planning and Building. The Progress Party writes in its position that they are disappointed that the legislative proposal reduces the issue of universal design to a technical, practical and economic question. But isn't that what this is also about? When we know that it costs between 14 and 23 billion dollars, isn't it smart to take things in order, so that we actually get what we want done? Is it true that for the Progress Party, words and objectives are more important than actual implementation? The party of progress represents a fissure layer and a fund. But how much is the government going to contribute? Will those in the next budgets make use of the means to achieve universal design within the time limits they themselves propose? Will the representative Svendsen guarantee it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e351	Of course, if our good proposal is adopted, we should follow up with money. There's no problem with that. We are then waiting for the Government's proposal - whether we should set up a fund, grant money over the state budget or have a split layer between several. But it's clear that the experience we got when we were at the U.S. comitology showed that setting deadlines was absolutely necessary to get things done quickly. We want to be part of a split-up team between the public and the private to get access in all places where there is a need for availability -- I think about shops and other areas -- to get it implemented as quickly as possible. And you can look at the fund so that the support decreases in the period up to 2025, which is our proposal, which leads to greater opportunities for private individuals to get support only in the period. This means that you get a much faster implementation than you get with the Government's proposals. Furthermore, the Planning and Building Act today requires accessibility, but it is not implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e358	It is important that the part of the law becomes effective and can be used by those who experience discrimination. One of the important measures laid down by the law in this area is to use the term ‘shared burden of proof’. That means that the person who feels discriminated against does not have the full burden of proof, by knowing what, for example, is responsible for the crime. an employer has done in an employment process where it is assumed that he has been discriminated against. This is a principle used in the Working Environment Act, in the Discrimination Act and also in the Equality Act. The Progress Party and the representative Svendsen do not see this weakening the ability of individuals to make use of the law if they are to prove what, for example. an employer has carried out an employment process, which they cannot possibly know if it is not the employer and the action holder who has the burden of proving how he has actually acted?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e365	Of course, I could have simply said no to it, but I can elaborate it a little bit. It will, of course, strengthen the individual's rights, but at the expense of what? Of course, it will be at the expense of the legal certainty of the employer. The party of progress has been opposed to sharing the burden of proof on several occasions, because in our view it moves some legal concepts. So we want it to be the same burden of proof for both sides here, and we stand for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e372	The Discrimination and Accessibility Act shall allow disabled persons to exploit their potential as a resource-intensive group in working, social and cultural life. I understand that the Progress Party has an offensive attitude towards the accessibility part of the law, but I am not as impressed by the position taken regarding the discrimination part of the law. It was also part of what Karin Andersen asked about. The Party opposes the law to promote equality in the purpose paragraph and the provision of shared burden of proof, and to oppose the introduction of the obligation of activity and reporting in the labour market. Does the Progress Party see that the proposals for legislation in these areas are important in order for the law to act as an anti-discrimination law? And does the Progress Party think that it's not so important - that it's availability alone that's the point?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e381	In this case, it's not just the Progress Party that sees it this way. We have based our proposals, among others. on gender equality, at the Syse Committee, which was divided here; it was thought that the focus was removed from discrimination by introducing it into the law with equality. That is why we have removed this. We believe that it takes focus away from what's important in the law. In terms of the activity and reporting obligation, it is exactly the same there. ECON has done a study on this. They say that no kind of effect can be demonstrated by the introduction of such a requirement. On the other hand, it will impose costs and increase red tape. We believe that it is important to implement the intentions of the law, but using instruments that do not work is against us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e390	The cord shift has therefore been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e393	Let me start by saying that it is positive that today we are going to adopt a law that provides better protection against discrimination against people with disabilities and that ensures that society is more designed so that it is accessible to everyone. A welfare society cannot be acquainted with any form of discrimination. That's why the Right Program is called "Facilities for All". We want a society in which everyone, regardless of physical circumstances, should have the opportunity of life development, participation, work and availability. This law is a step towards such a society. We have to say that it is positive that this matter area seems to have a stronger and more cross-political commitment behind it. Although there is disagreement in some areas, all parties aim to ensure that the society of the future is a society in which disabled people do not face physical barriers to participation and where discrimination is prohibited. In the past, the right has proposed its own general anti-discrimination law. The cause of discrimination is changing over time, although in some contexts it is more systematic than in others. I therefore look forward to the Government following up on the majority remark in the Inst. S. No 54 for 2006-2007, where the desire for such a general law has been signalled. Today’s anti-discrimination and gender equality legislation is, of course, strongly influenced by the interest groups that have worked out the interests of their members, and that is very positive. These organisations have done a new job of breaking the law. But when the law in this area is thus very marked by the perception of discrimination by different groups, it is of course a consequence that many individuals who are discriminated against but who may not belong to any group - individuals who are discriminated against on an individual basis and who do not have strong interests behind them - do not have the same legal protection. There is a background for the strong commitment of the Right to a common anti-discrimination law that is based more on individuals who experience discrimination in society than on groups who experience discrimination. It is therefore important that this work is now under pressure because, when the rights of individual groups are strengthened, the experience of discrimination among individuals who experience discrimination will, of course, be similarly stronger. In the law, a starting point is that a desire for a society that is less disabled. I think it's important that we all take that as a starting point, that it's society that creates disability by not being well organized. From that point of view, everyone will at some point be in a situation where a society experiences it as a barrier-creating society and makes it a disabled person. It can be something as simple as the day you should carry extra baggage on your way to the Storting, a large and heavy suitcase, because you should be in Oslo for a long time, and meet a plane that is not universally designed. That day is a disabled person because one risks not reaching the train, not getting in place. It's a little thing, but it's an illustration that during life everyone experiences that society creates barriers that make a person have a different function than what a normal person experiences. It is important that one places it in the responsibility of society, because to a large extent the debate is that it is based on the individual that one is disabled, but it is society that creates these barriers. One of the most important and inclusive measures for people with disabilities is to ensure that they have the opportunity to participate in working life in the same way as for those who do not have disabilities. Unfortunately, we know that this is not the situation today. Unemployment is higher for people with disabilities, and of course for people with disabilities. Although this is a general problem that is equally important at any time, in a situation of record low unemployment and record high participation in the labour market, we must take it very seriously that the particularly favourable situation on the labour market has not, however, led to the very large inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market. If we don't succeed in this now, it's hard to imagine at what times you're going to succeed in it. It is interesting to look at Fafo’s study of employers’ attitudes to this. Fafo conducted a survey asking about the employer's attitude to employ people who were 30 years old and who were well qualified for the job - that was the starting point. They then added some additional information about the persons. With this additional information, the percentage of employers who wanted to hire the person fell dramatically. For example, if one had Somali background, one came down to less than 20 pst. who was willing to hire a person, even though he was 30 years old and well qualified. But then a layer of disabilities -- hearing impairments, visual impairments, or wheelchair use -- then the percentage fell even more sharply. Usually a person would believe that when an answer to that kind of question, a decorative in reality and in a way would want to appear more pleasant than it is. This was an open-ended study that showed that this is a clear, open-minded attitude among Norwegian employers. When we add that we know that in the public sector there are actually worse results in recruiting people with disabilities compared to private people, this is a rather dramatic expression of how our attitudes -- and I say our attitudes, because these are attitudes that I think are latent in all of us -- lead to systematic discrimination against people with disabilities. In the design of society and working life, there may be small steps needed to bring about changes, small steps to ensure that the threshold of participation in work is reduced. Therefore, earlier in this period, we have proposed a so-called green card scheme for job seekers with a need for job organisation. There may be many employers, both public and private, who do not fully understand the opportunities that exist there and who thus experience this barrier as being very clear, as well as the attitudes that also underpin this discrimination. More than two years have passed since a unanimous Committee on Employment and Social Affairs asked that the scheme be improved and made more widely known among users, in ancillary services and in the workplace. In view of the fact that the 2008 budget stated that only ten persons had been given such an arrangement, it is difficult to see that the intention has been properly followed. But I'm glad that the government in the revised national budget seems to follow up the commitment that the Right has had to this, by increasing the efforts in the work to make the scheme known. I hope this will have the effect that I believe all the parties are concerned about, namely that more disabled people get involved in the work. This will lead to great social savings and make it possible for many people living in social security today to participate in the labour market when they want to do so. As I started with, this is a step in the right direction. It's an important step, but not a final step. I am also pleased that the case rapporteur, on behalf of the government parties in his post, emphasised that this is not the end of a job, but the beginning. I also hope that the Storting can strengthen this work through the treatment of the building part of the new Planning and Building Act. As the rapporteur for that matter, I will try to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e419	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e422	I would like to address what the representative Bent Höie said about working life in his article. The reference to the Fafo study was very interesting. The right disagrees with the introduction of an activity and reporting obligation in the law. In their comment, they say, together with the Progress Party, that they agree that all businesses have an obligation to work actively to promote the purpose of the law. They also say that this work, in order not to be forgotten, should be described in the company's annual report. It gives us a little problem to interpret it. What does the Right actually mean? Do they mean that there should be a reporting, i.e. in the annual reports, but without an activity obligation? Or do they consider it to be an activity obligation without reporting obligation? Or, on the basis of what the representative Bent Höie is now saying about attitudes in the world of work, do they see from the Fafo report that we must have both sides in order for society to ensure that anti-discrimination and accessibility work will also reach employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e429	I feel that in many areas of society where a person wants to make changes - whether it's about gender equality, whether it's about nature and the environment and in this context work for people with disabilities in the workplace - we take a number of measures that have a purely symbolic meaning, so that one can in a way testify that one has done something but in reality has no effect. This is one of the proposals in the vote that we believe have no effect other than that it is perceived as bureaucratic for those who are going to implement it. It's kind of a way to print something -- the square of something -- and it can be perceived as having done something without it actually having any meaning to those who are outside of the world of work. Rather, we want to focus on tools that can help people actually get into work, rather than putting a chin in an annual report.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e435	For SV it has been very important to have a proper principle starting point for the law, and therefore the purpose paragraph of the law has been very important to us. We're very happy that we've got the concept of equality in the purpose section, because that's what it's all about, that you have to be socially equal, regardless of who you are. But I am a little surprised that the right obviously does not mean the same thing. It is therefore particularly interesting to ask the representative Höie, who has been involved in other forms of discrimination, where the concept of ‘ equality’ has been very central to achieving the same position in society for all: what is the fundamental reason for not wanting social equality as a guiding principle for policies towards people with disabilities, in relation to other groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e442	I do not feel that there is a fundamental point of view behind the fact that Right countries do not want to use the term ‘ equality’ in the purpose paragraph, but go in the direction of the same approach that parts of the Syse Committee had in relation to recommending rather using the term ‘equal value’. In the NOW wrote one: ‘The concept of gender equality is already closely linked to the protection against discrimination based on sex. Availability is not, in the same way, part of the protection against discrimination based on sex. The sample therefore fears that established notions of what equality involves will not fully fathom the accessibility aspect. In addition, equivalence is better suited to addressing the needs for compensatory rights and mechanisms that can trigger disability. Overall, the sample therefore considers that equivalency best describes the overall objective. ‘... That's why the Right is saying that one with the term "equal value" meets the objectives that we have with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e452	This is going to be one of the same problem. Right is part of the majority of very many of these comments, so then we're going to drill into what we disagree about. It is a bit interesting that the Progress Party and the Right do not want the concept of equality into the purpose paragraph, especially the Right. The right is in agreement with us when they say in the general remarks: ‘The Committee shares the assessment of the importance of an overall general law on discrimination in order to provide citizens with general and comprehensive protection against discrimination. ‘... I know that the Right has also requested when this work comes. In this context, I find it hard to imagine that we can achieve such a collective law, if we do not believe that equality and equivalency should be the bearer of the law, and that we do so in particular that we say that it should only say ‘equal’ on the basis that the Syse Committee has said that it is the most targeted in relation to this particular group. That is the general picture that is interesting in abolishing discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e464	I don't think there's any contradiction between these two terms, on the contrary. I believe that the concept of equality has the same content as the concept of equality, but also something. I see that the government parties have chosen the approach of using both terms. From the right, we believe that the concept of ‘equal value’ in the purpose paragraph has the same value content as the concept of ‘ equality’, but that the concept of equality is so closely linked to other issues in relation to anti-discrimination work that it can be seen as more unclear, compared to using the collective term ‘equal value’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e469	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e472	The street is for everyone, the school is for everyone, the cinema is for everyone, singing students from Hanstad school in Elverum on the Stortinget last Tuesday. Then they had a play that took care of the most important principles of the law we are dealing with today. Because it's about everyone being equal in society. Different people should have equal opportunities. The main approach to the policy of ensuring people with disabilities is shifted from social policy to equality policy, and that is good and timely. It's a very important grip. So it's not just about compensatory measures, as it has been now, but about changes in society, so that society adapts to all the inhabitants - not just the majority. It is therefore important and necessary to have the concept of equality as a principle in addition to the concept of equality. I hope that the Right and Advance Party's resistance to this is unthinkable, and that they will also realize that the law and the goal are social equality, and that they are actually not against it. The theatre piece that was performed by the Hanstad students is a fine picture of just that. The guy who had chromosome faults and couldn't open the pitfalls without spilling, was made into a problem, where the therapist and society ruled with him to correct his disability, until the friends said stop and declared: now it's enough, he belongs to the way he is. Maybe we can change the mackerel box. - It's as simple as it might be, and then it might be right. That's the angle of incidence that we're going to have here. It's about what the students sang about: attitudes and physical availability. The law is the first step on the road to remove the discrimination hierarchy that we've had now, where people with disabilities have actually been at the bottom. In the attitude-change section of the law, we have reinforced the protection of the obligation to act by reporting. This will apply to 1.4 million workers. The obligation of activity provides public and private employers with an important instrument to become aware of actions and attitudes, in order to be able to change them in their own activities when they discover that the way in which they act, for example: recruits, promotes and employs are directly or indirectly discriminatory. So you have to focus on working systematically on this, not just changing when you are charged with a case. When we dealt with the Discrimination Act, i.e. the implementation of the UN paragraph on racism, Ronald Craig, at the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, was consulted in the Committee and strongly advocated the obligation of activity, precisely because he believed that he was moving the work against discrimination from a retroactive individual complaint handling to a proactive prevention regardless of complaint. I believe that it is very important, and I think that Norwegian companies should accept this with thanks and extended hands, so that it is actually possible to reverse the attitudes that, among other things, are. The representative from the Right was up and talking about. So don't look so dark on duty of activity and reporting! We think it works well. The legislative paragraph has now been reinforced in several areas, including: with the purpose paragraph. Furthermore, the requirement to address direct discrimination is lowered from ‘specially disadvantageous’ treatment to ‘shall not be made worse than others’. The requirement that a person be disabled in order for the law to be applied has been removed, and the Government thus introduces this activity and reporting obligation. In order to bring an action for redress and compensation under the law, the requirement of particular gross negligence has been removed for the sake of 'negligentness'. In this way, the law will provide a stronger protection for those affected. The accessibility section introduces deadlines for new and existing ICT, new buildings and installations and new transport investments. These deadlines are precise deadlines, and I therefore believe that the proposal from, among other things. Christian People's Party on this is unnecessary. The time-limits for the universal design of existing buildings and structures shall be laid down in new planning and building laws, which will enter into force during 2009. It is therefore wrong when the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left claim that universal design with this law does not have a particularly stronger position in Norwegian society. Both Sections 9, 10 and 11 of this Act do. A general obligation to organise public and private activities is established which obliges them to work on a planned and active basis for universal design from day one. The deadlines for ICT, new buildings and civil engineering and commercial investment also do so. The time-limits in the regulations of new planning and building laws will do so. New provisions on the Planning Act will also do so. In the field of transport, the principle should also be addressed in the NTP, and it is important that all the batches involved in it now ensure that this is prioritised in the field of transport. There we know that the fight for the crowns is strong. There is no way how much money individual parties in this room think we should spend on building roads. Then I want you to be able to actually re-prioritize some of that money, so that transport investments also come into place. Demanding universal design for existing buildings and transport requires that we contribute money to sub-funding in the budgets ahead. That's what will be the test piece. We have to do that if we're going to get to the goal. Especially in the transport sector, I think this is going to be demanding, precisely because the fight for the crowns is so strong in that area of the state budget. Universal design is absolutely necessary as a leading principle, but not enough. Individual organisation is also absolutely necessary, and it is necessary to work with universal design standards, because in this area there is a continuous development. So it has to be the availability that has to be the standard of what we need. The technical solutions can change and improve at all times. In cooperation with stakeholder organisations, stricter derogations have now been introduced for universal design requirements and individual organisation obligations, so as to focus first on assessing the extent to which accessibility for disabled persons is improved by the proposed measure. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the ratification of the UN Convention. It's important. For SV, it is important that we ratify. But it is important that we have done the job we need to do in order to be able to ratify and thereby fulfil the obligations we have. This is why it is so important that the investigation of goods and services is under way and that the relatively large changes that have to be made to the law on defences are initiated. This is linked to Article 2 of the United Nations Convention, which takes into account the concept of ‘reasonable accommodation’. Universal design in itself is a correct, important and bearable principle, but that's not enough. Sense if a product is universally designed, however, it is not certain that everyone can use it or that everyone has access to the product. In order to be equal in society, it is very important to have equal access to goods and services. It's an important part of society, and it's a very important part of everyday life. That's why it's very important that this investigation now gets started, and I want to praise the Government for doing so. There was a lack in the Syse Committee's investigation that this important point had not been taken into account -- someone is discussing whether it is correct or necessary in relation to the UN Convention. I believe that this is because Article 2 is so clear on ‘reasonable accommodation’ as the term in English. But the point is that if we're going to achieve the goal with the law, it has to be there, anyway. I almost don't think it's possible to dispute that. This is a milestone in the fight against discrimination and for equality. I believe that many today can congratulate each other on good work, which will mean a lot. Now we have to work hard to get the law to be respected and used, and to secure money for universal design also in existing buildings and transport, so that it becomes accessible on equal terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e508	Both the case's rapporteur, Dagfinn Sundsbø, and Karin Andersen have addressed this in their speeches with equality as an important point. As the representative, Höie, said, in the opinion of the Progress Party, embraces all the value aspects of this. But in the Syse Committee's formulation in NOW 2005:8 it says: ‘The concept of gender equality is already closely linked to the protection against discrimination based on sex. Availability is not, in the same way, part of the protection against discrimination based on sex. The sample therefore fears that established notions of what equality involves will not fully fathom the accessibility aspect. In addition, equivalence is better suited to addressing the needs for compensatory rights and mechanisms that can trigger disability. Overall, the sample therefore considers that equivalency best describes the overall objective. ‘... So the Progress Party and the Right are in line with the Syse Committee in this case. What makes the representative Andersen think that the Syse Committee is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e520	It does not appear that the Progress Party has discovered that the purpose paragraph now contains both concepts. We therefore believe that it is necessary to have the term ‘equivalent’ in the purpose section, for example. from some of the arguments raised in the Syse Committee. But we think that's not enough. Equality is a fundamental starting point for equality in society - that is, social equality as a concept. There have been very busy organisations for people with disabilities and human rights organisations. The fact that this concept relates in a way to the gender equality struggle is a point of view of the Syse Committee. I do not share that view, that the concept of equality should embrace everything, or that the concept of equality should embrace everything, because it does not. That's why we've used both of these terms so that we can cover all the areas we need to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e527	The Christian People's Party wants to introduce exact deadlines for universal design also for existing buildings by 1 January 2019. The SV and the government parties argue that a regulation can be an equally good alternative and will give priority to the most important one. Does the representative of SV not see that this can easily become a ‘sleep cutting’, as the rapporteur put it, and that it will take longer before existing construction becomes available to all? Does the representative consider that a regulation is as legally binding as a separate law with exact deadlines? Why does SV not listen to user organisations, which are quite clear that they want a law adopted by the Stortinget rather than a regulation drafted by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e535	In the setting we say that we want deadlines for existing buildings and installations to be included in the regulations of the Planning and Building Act. It must therefore be time-limits and they must be binding. The government can change regulations and only the size can change laws. However, in the case of the legal status when a regulation is made, it is binding, and it cannot be waived without its inclusion in that case. This is absolutely necessary, and I think that the test piece of this is going to be that we get a differentiation here, so that we get the constructions that are the most important first, and that we can manage to put off enough money, so that we can actually make them available. Then I believe that we can achieve the goal of accessibility as quickly as if we have a deadline far ahead of time, where we have not prioritised which areas of society there is the greatest need for all people to access. Then we can risk spending our money on peripheral areas in relation to what's very central.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e540	It is surprising in many ways that Andersen's representative boasts so much of the obligation to work. The left believes, however, that we need to look more at exceptions in order to reduce the number of employees. I register that SV is on this with only 50 employees. The left considers that the number of employees can be significantly reduced. I don't quite understand why SV doesn't agree to it, to get something done quickly. With regard to the response pattern that Karin Andersen had, I would like to ask: does she not see that when this is eventually to be adapted to universally designed buildings, there will be great differences between municipalities and municipalities, for example. with regard to transport centres, etc.? Does she not see that there may be a problem that there will be different handling with regard to availability?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e549	As the proposal now stands, the activity and reporting obligation will apply to enterprises that regularly employ 50 employees or more. That's 1.4 million. employees concerned. We think it's a good place to start. There are companies that have a certain size and structure, which make it easier for them to deal with such issues. And then we'd better get back to it eventually and see if there's any reason to change that. My attitude to the duty of activity is that I think it's a proactive and good way to deal with this, so that you become consciously unconscious in your actions and attitudes that make you discriminate. With regard to the practice in relation to the regulations to be given in connection with the Planning and Building Act, I do not assume that there should be a difference between the municipalities on that. The difference shall be that there shall be building categories that are the most essential, that all people have equal access to be socially equal, and that there is no municipal differentiation in relation to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e556	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e559	This is in many ways a day of joy. The law we present today is an important step forward for people with disabilities. It implies, in principle, that buildings and means of transport intended for the general public are to be designed in such a way that they are accessible to all. Universal design will also help the elderly, persons with baby carriages and heavy suitcases and others. It is not only a practical challenge that wheelchair users or others with disabilities do not enter shops, restaurants and cinemas, or that they cannot easily travel by train, bus or plane. It's also about human dignity. There have to be equal opportunities for everyone. The Christian People's Party has therefore given high priority to the work on the new Discrimination and Accessibility Act. However, the law could have been much better if the government parties had listened more closely to the recordings of user organisations and the people that this law is primarily about. For the Christian People's Party, the law implies a win-win situation, as it will bring great social benefits with a better inclusion of disabled people in society. These people have large resources that are currently not fully exploited. I feel that the government is not really taking this into account. Government parties do not work very impatiently when it comes to including people with disabilities. The government refuses to set concrete deadlines for the implementation of universal design in a number of key areas. Government parties have, as one of their slogans, 'All must join'. Yeah, well, that's fine, but when's everybody gonna go? Christian People's Party proposes that both existing buildings and information and communication technologies should be universally designed by 1 January 2019. In this way, businesses would be given time to plan and implement upgrades, while at the same time the rights of users would be fixed more precisely. Existing buildings and ICT are crucial parts of society. Full inclusion of disabled persons cannot be done if this is not taken seriously. Because of the red-green lack of acceptance for a mandatory universal design deadline at these key points, it is now completely uncertain when Norway is universally designed for people with disabilities. A prescription is not good enough. Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal that new buildings should be universally designed by 1 July 2009, but at the same time we are clearer than the government parties that this must be an exact deadline. We will follow closely to contribute to the fact that the new buildings are actually universally designed from 1 July 2009. The Christian People's Party is also concerned with caring for those people who have problems getting sight of glass surfaces on buildings because of reduced vision. Glass is in, and there are more and more such surfaces. We have therefore proposed that all buildings aimed at the public should be marked in the interest of the visually impaired by 1 January 2011 at the latest. Once again, the government parties were not willing to be concrete. The Christian People's Party is aware that adaptations to existing buildings will lead to costs for the owners. That is why we want a financing mechanism in which costs are shared between the owners and the public. Such a financial instrument could be the creation of a fund, an estimate of the state budget, or a split-layer between state, county and municipality. I am surprised that the government would not be involved in investigating this important financing side of the concrete follow-up to the law of the time that is coming. The Christian People's Party and the rest of the opposition are also impatient about the universal design of films and television broadcasts by subtitling for hearing-impaired people. Even on the NRK, no more than 39 pst. of all programmes. In comparison, the BBC in England has set itself the goal of having 100 pst. subtitles by April of this year. In the case of cinema, the picture is even more discouraging. Last year, only 3 out of 22 Norwegian films were texted in cinema, despite the fact that the producer was able to cover all its costs through the State's subsidisation scheme for substituting Norwegian films. This is unacceptable. The opposition therefore proposes that all films and all television broadcasts should be texted as soon as possible in the interest of the hearing impaired. We don't see any reason to investigate this, as the government parties want to do. Because of the red-green-based approach here, there will still be more than 600 000 people who will be discriminated against when they do not get important information on TV. Nor can I understand why the red-green parties did not agree that information aimed at the public and ICT in working life and education should be covered by universal design obligations. Universal design makes everyday life easier for everyone. For example, no one gets. a lower level of provision of information on public transport speakers, but it is necessary for people with poor minds and reading disabilities. Nor does it have to cost as much as other countries put in place similar solutions that can easily be implemented in Norway. The Christian People's Party is concerned that public authorities must have a conscious relationship with their own market power, by making clear demands for universal design in the procurement of goods and services. The government parties here refer to existing laws and regulations, but that is not good enough. We therefore propose that universal design requirements be incorporated into public tenders. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes that the possibilities for public or private enterprises not to implement universal design in the interests of so-called disproportionate burden should be deleted after the time limit for each category has been set and reached. Public action must not initially be allowed to rely on a disproportionate burden. There's something called sweeping at your own door. The Christian People's Party proposes that Norway ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Additional Protocol No as a matter of urgency. 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights, which deals with discrimination. A Norwegian ratification will lead to a stronger pressure to implement important and necessary legislative changes in favour of disabled people. It's now only five countries that haven't done this, and I think it's strange that the government is pushing sharp jus in front of it when it's really just a matter of will. The government usually wants to be the best in the world, but, according to the government’s own press release, Norway should be ‘a country of the past in the Nordic region’. As I said, this law contains many important improvements for people with disabilities, but I think it is a little sad that the Government does not have the same ambitions in terms of facilitating and accessibility for people with disabilities as it has in many other areas. Finally, I address the proposals on which the Christian People's Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e597	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e602	The representative Woie Duesund concluded his speech by saying that she was sorry that the majority did not have as high ambitions when it came to the inclusion of disabled people as of other groups. The majority starting point is that there is an incorrect statement. One of the measures that the majority would like to emphasise in order to achieve rapid results is that we strongly want municipalities on the ground with regard to local themes and universal design action plans based on the Law on Planning and Building, and therefore also with close involvement, as required by the Act, from local user organisations that have a good knowledge of local barriers. The Christian People's Party has opposed this, along with the Party of Advancement and the Left. My question is, why is this lack of trust in local knowledge in the organisations and municipalities? This is particularly strange in view of the good results of the Kristiansand Congregation of Pioneers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e609	The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the Law of Planning and Building. We have now agreed that there will be exact deadlines. But the deadline is not tomorrow, it's about 2009 and 2019, and then everyone will have plenty of time to prepare. During that period, of course, it is clear that we want to cooperate with the municipalities, and we want to cooperate with the user organisations. The fact that we have set deadlines is because we agree with the user organisations today. They want exact deadlines, and we think they have waited long enough. We will be more offensive than what the Government is, and therefore we want exact deadlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e616	The Christian People's Party believes that the deadline for universal design of existing ICT and building by 1 January 2019 is the difference between having ambitions on behalf of universal design or not having one, as I understood the post. The majority have set themselves further goals by having ambitions on behalf of existing facilities, outdoor areas, transport terminals, existing buses and trains in addition, but we therefore want a priority implementation of this through regulations on planning and building law and by following this up in national transport plan. Will not such a priority order and approach be significantly more important to universal design than to remain content with 2019 for construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e623	First of all, I have to say that the government parties, here in the Central Party, have wanted deadlines for new construction and new transport communications. It's because the government parties, like the Christian People's Party, see that it's important to have an exact date, so that you can prepare and get some time to take care of what Lise Christoffersen was about, talking to the users and having good contact with the municipalities. I think it's important. We believe that a prescription is not good enough. The fact that it should be given priority, one can do before the deadlines we have set, but then things might be too late. It will be a ‘sleep cut’, as the representative said in his main post. Therefore, it is so important that we do not wait, but are more ambitious and offensive than what the Government is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e630	The Christian People's Party is busy with deadlines, and that's good. That's why I think it's a little sad that the Christian People's Party is involved in such a doubt that for the universal design of new buildings it is not an exact deadline. That's it. The law is ready. New applicant actions shall be universally designed. From this I need to ask the Christian People's Party whether there would have been no reason to draw this proposal in order not to cast doubt on the deadlines that are actually, and which the Christian People's Party believes are important. In addition, it might be interesting to hear if the Christian People's Party has changed its position on ratification of UN conventions, as they now believe that we should ratify before the underlying laws are in place. It has been a long tradition in Norway that it has not been done, and it has also followed the Christian People's Party in government. Does this mean that they now want a new practice, to ratify before the legislation in force is in place, without actually fulfilling the Convention's intention and objective by ratifying?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e636	I am pleased that the representative is now taking away the doubts that have arisen as to whether the deadlines should be exact, and that we agree on that. I think it's nice to get fixed. First of all, when it came to ratifying the UN Convention, when we were in the United States, it became clear everywhere that it was important that we ratified it. Now it's five countries that haven't done it. Norway should be a country of priority. Had we now ratified, there would have been only four left. The letter from the Minister for Children and Gender Equality even states that the Legal Service considers it unclear whether we need ‘additional legislative measures in relation to legal requirements for access to goods and services’. That's why I think we should now show political will and action, not just investigate and postpone something as important as including people with disabilities in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e645	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e648	This week, the Stortinget deals with two important laws, both of which aim to promote equality, equal rights and opportunities in key social areas for two different forms of discrimination. When the Storting tomorrow secures the majority of common marriage law, the Left believes we are taking an important step to ensure equal rights for homosexuals and heterophiles. Unfortunately, we cannot say that the Storting does the same for people with disabilities when we are discussing today the proposal for the Discrimination and Availability Act. The proposal contains so many shortcomings that it will take a very long time for disabled people to be guaranteed the right and the opportunity to participate in all social arenas in line with others. Misunderstanding me correctly: the left believes it is very gratifying that today we have a law designed to ensure people with disabilities against discrimination in all areas of society. The problem is that the law is too weak with regard to universal design provisions to ensure physical accessibility. Universal design is necessary for some and useful to all. Most people have to expect to have impaired function in parts of their lives, whether due to injury, age or illness. The radius of action decreases when carrying a stroller or a bicycle on a bus, train or tram, or provides high fortifications. Others have struggled with heavy doors as they go with crutches, and most have experienced problems in finding places with poor signage and marking. For people with disabilities universal design is often crucial to getting to work, school, cinema, bus, training and café. Otherwise, the result is at best a lot of organisation and unnecessary use of time to be able to use offers others look like a matter of course. Often this means that disabled people are physically excluded from important social arenas. In addition to the practical discrimination, efforts to change attitudes and challenge prejudices will be much slower. Prejudice and attitudes are challenged best face to face, but if we are to get it done, disabled people must be able to meet us at as many venues as possible. Then they had to be able to get in there and up there. There has been an important shift in focus in the debate on disability. In Norway, we have had a tradition that issues related to disability have been viewed solely as a social policy issue. This is in stark contrast to e.g. in the United States, which has gone into this with a civil rights perspective. The result is that a wheelchair is supported in Norway, but it does not appear. In the United States, wheelchairs are far more common, but they have to pay for themselves. The left seems to be an idea to combine the best of two worlds and think the law should have provided for it. Unfortunately, with the majority's vote, we do not achieve that today. Now it has become much more common in Norway to recognise that physical exclusion is a matter of discrimination and thus a violation of human rights. It is therefore important that the law sets clear deadlines for universal design in all areas. Let me take the pleasure of the Government's proposal and the majority vote first: they have time limits for universal design on ICT. What is the problem is that the majority do not follow up on this with regard to the universal design of the rest of society. There are three aspects in particular that undermine the purpose and the fine wording. There is a fragmented and unpredictable approach, a lack of deadlines and a unclear definition of what the definitions are at disproportionate cost. The Government and the majority do not propose that all buildings, facilities, outdoor areas and transport addressed to the public should be universally designed within a given time limit. They would rather have something they call 'a step-by-step and priority approach'. The truth is that such an approach is fragmented and unpredictable, and for many decades to come, it will make it difficult for disabled people to know about and when they encounter insurmountable obstacles. The government’s argument that public construction with a compulsory offer such as schools needs to be given priority may be reckless, but why it should be more important for example. a public offer as a NAV office than a private café is much more difficult to understand. Fortunately, most of us, including those with disabilities, spend more time in the café and cinema than in the social security office. Or, at least they would if they came in and up there without too much control. The so-called priority is not unexpected from a government that seems to believe that life is largely lived in public offices. Most of us others, with or without disability, have completely different dreams. From the end of the 1970s we have had a requirement for accessibility in the Law on Planning and Building. Unfortunately, due to the lack of deadlines, absolute requirements and wide dispensation possibilities, this has had far too little effect. According to figures from the National Centre of Competence for People with Disabilities, 2 000 are schools and even 60 pst. of all public buildings still unavailable. The government turns out to be more creative when they argue against setting deadlines. Sure enough, deadlines should pose a risk that nothing will be done until the last minute. The left looks forward to the same argument that deadlines cause major problems in all other areas of society, such as alcohol and alcohol. environmental policy and kindergarten development. I'm just asking. If the Government and the majority consider this to be serious, the solution is to be indistinct: introduce incentives in the form of depreciation rules and grants that are the most early in the period and gradually decrease towards the end of the deadline and combine with public use of their market power and self-require universal design for the rental of premises, including conference venues. Here I refer to our proposal on depreciation rules, and I warn you that this is something we will follow up in future budgetary proceedings. The Government and the majority will draw up regulations setting time limits for different buildings and structures under the new Planning and Building Act. The left expects this work to begin immediately, and most of the regulations are clear when the Stortinge in the fall will deal with the building part of the proposal for a new planning and building law. However, we fear that a purely regulatory approach to deadlines will lead to a missing link between universal design and discrimination and human rights. The left believes that a law without deadlines in practice risks pushing the goal of a universally designed society into eternity. Ensuring people with disabilities the right and the ability to participate in society in the same way as others costs money, a lot of money, because of old sins in terms of lack of availability. When the majority will now have an opportunity to invoke a disproportionate burden without an end date, we are at risk of obtaining an exception to the universal design requirement which, unfortunately, is not much more stringent than today's exemption practices. The left is particularly disappointed that the majority opposes our proposal that the possibility of relying on a disproportionate burden should not apply to public buildings, installations and outdoor areas. It is far from the majority’s so-called ‘critic and priority approach’ where public building needs to be given priority. In the Soria Moria Declaration, government parties said the following: ‘The government will base its work on the principle of social equality and universal design. This must be ensured through national legislation and services, a law against discrimination against disabled persons and a binding timetable for accessibility. ‘... This is in stark contrast to what is the majority position today: it is moving towards binding deadlines, it is holding on to a vague possibility of relying on disproportionate burdens, and it chooses rather a fragmented rather than a holistic approach to universal design. Unfortunately, this means that today the Storting misses a unique opportunity to really lift the protection of discrimination for people with disabilities to the same level as we currently have in terms of gender, ethnicity and sexual orientation. The argument for this is purely economic, and we in the Left think it is alarming that the government, which uses such big words, is so much just for equivalency and equality when it's free or cheap. For us, it clearly shows that the Government and the majority in its calculator have forgotten the purpose of their own bill, stating that the lack of universal design is discrimination and thus a violation of human rights. Is it really the case that the majority will stop human rights violations only if it is simple and cheap? In doing so, I would like to address the proposals to which the Left supports, and those on which we stand alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e693	The representative, André Skjelstad, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e698	Both the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have addressed a common and strong criticism of the government parties, implicitly so too, even though it is not so pronounced, in order not to set deadlines for old constructions, installations and means of transport, etc. On our side, we have tried to emphasise that we perceive that priority and differentiated deadlines will bring us faster to the goal. Question 1: When it is so important for the three parties, why are their proposals so poorly coordinated? Christian People's Party says: existing building 2019. The progress party says: construction, construction and outdoor areas 2025. The left says: construction, construction and outdoors 2020 and transport by 2025. Then the second question is think about a year, maybe midway from here to 2025. It's 17 more years. We'll be there in 2017. How far have we come in universal design with the opposition's plans in 2017?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e707	The representative will be commended for the same thing as I said up from the pulpit that there are deadlines for ICT. I'm happy about that. No, we're not thinking about any number. What's thinking about a number is when we add it to the regulation, which we can change at any time. By having clear figures like 2020 and 2025, which are the two years for which the Left goes in, I think it's a clarification, and then it's not going to be a fragmentation, which in many ways is what the position answers here. You get a fragmentation, and you can change the regulation as it suits you. Had it been in the legal text, this would have been much stronger and given a much clearer signal that we want something here. Unfortunately, the government has chosen to wait and insert it into a regulation, which does not make an equally clear signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e714	First of all, I would like to say that both the Left and other opposition representatives are dangerously close to discussing an important proposal, such as: organisations for disabled persons and human rights organisations have been working for many years. I would warn against that, against reducing the significance of what is actually being done today, in the disappointment that you're not reaching the goal, where you want to be, because then you're reducing the possibility that the paragraphs that are in place will be effective. Then I need to ask the Left for the same thing as I asked the Christian People's Party, because I got a very unclear answer there: Is it that the Left too, who has been a government party, has changed principles in relation to how we ratify UN conventions? Norway has had the practice of reviewing underlying laws so that it is in line with the Convention before we ratify it. Today, the Left and the Christian People's Party recommend that we turn to the principle of politics. It is important to know, then, that ratifying will not mean any of the world's things to the individuals involved, unless the underlying laws are in place so that they actually give rights in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e726	To start with the last first. The left is impatient and wants us to have this ratified as soon as possible. It's in many ways a human thing we're talking about. So Karin Andersen says we're talking down the proposal. No, we definitely don't talk it down. The representative cannot then have heard my statement. I am pleased that we have this law up today. But then what is not good enough, can also be pointed out, without it being to talk the proposal down. I don't think in any way that I've talked it down. I have pointed out what has been the shortcomings in what we are going to adopt today, and it is definitely not to talk it down. I also think I've lifted several things up, which has been very positive. In many ways, I think it's an innovation, and I also said that at the beginning of my post. But unfortunately it doesn't go far enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e733	When the representative Skelstad from the left says that we are now adopting a law without deadlines, he is of course speaking against better knowledge. It is a bit symptomatic also for a few comments that Left has along with the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in the setting. They say that ‘The legislative proposal reduces the issue of universal design to a technical, practical and purely economic issue’. They also say that they have ‘difficult to see that universal design thereby has a stronger legal position’. The Party of Progress, with which the Left is associated, is moving towards equality in the purpose paragraph, against the provision on the burden of shared evidence, against the bill on positive treatment and against the introduction of the obligation of activity and reporting. Then I'm going to ask the Left's representative: where is the biggest problem in order to create a universally designed society? Is it really in the government parties, or is it in the commentaries of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e748	The Left has put forward its own policy. As Sundsbø should know, the Left is also a centre party, which stands for the values we believe are important. The values we highlight in this matter are human dignity. In many ways, Sundsbø is trying to use the calculator to a large extent, because there is nothing to do with deadlines. On the other hand, it is pointed out that this is expensive, without it being written in the text. Putting it into regulation is the same thing as postponing it in time. We all know that we should have done this, we must have time limits to go on. The left shows how this can be done, but unfortunately the government parties are not involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e756	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e759	This is a big and important day. The majority treats a law that provides disabled people with legal protection against discrimination because we want a society that is accessible to everyone. We no longer have a focus on health and social policy, but we establish that this is about inclusion and equality. We want everyone to come. Then we can't have a society where man-made barriers shut somebody out. Then we cannot continue to build restaurants, public buildings, trams and buses and trains without considering that people are different. The law states that, as far as possible, access must be universal and that the use must be universal. In other words, people should be able to get in the front door and not be referred to the back door that no one else uses. A universal society is a society for everyone. When the Stortinget was universally arranged, it was possible for me to enter the entrance door here with a baby carriage. And when we get old, we can come up the same entrance door with our scooters when we go to the restaurant and eat shrimp butterbread! The Government is in favour of legal protection against discrimination on grounds of disability. This means that we look at discrimination against this group in the same way as we look at discrimination on the basis of sex, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, etc. The proposal on discrimination and accessibility laws protects against discrimination in all areas of society. Today, we have a protection against discrimination on grounds of disability only in the workplace. Now we use the experience we have from the women's struggle, and we see that discrimination in the context of discrimination against people with disabilities. We gain experience and use it in this area. The treatment of discrimination is also similar. The gender equality ombudsman and gender equality student, who has extensive experience in combating discrimination, is also responsible for determining whether these people are being discriminated against. When we got the Equality Act, there was a milestone in the fight for equality between men and women. We did not get equality from day one, but we started a laborious work against discrimination. That's why this law gives us a very good framework, a very good start in the work of making these people completely equal to others. The proposal also draws attention to the lack of availability. The accessibility component consists of a universal organisation obligation in the form of universal design. So this is complemented by an individual organisation obligation in some areas where it is necessary. The universal design obligation shall ensure an equivalent design of our common meeting places and surroundings. Social participation shall not be impeded by the lack of availability. Community design of buildings and surroundings gives important signals of common values. Access to construction, transport, information and communication technologies for all is very important in this context. I am pleased that the Committee is united on what is the most important part of this bill. The law imposes requirements on public and private enterprises aimed at the general public. A general obligation to organise such activities shall ensure that from day one, those activities shall work for universal design. There is an activity obligation related to this. As many representatives have been involved, this is a central and important part of the law. This means that enterprises must work in a targeted, planned and active way to promote universal design. The determination is bounded by a proportionality assessment. This means that the establishment must take safety, security and economic considerations into account. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee proposes that this assessment be carried out in two stages. One should first consider what a change means for people with disabilities. So in step 2, you're going to evaluate the other considerations. So it's the people who come first. We know that organisations for disabled people have wanted such a step-by-step approach. I think that is a good idea, and I am pleased that the committee is making this clarification. The law we now present, together with a new planning and building law and regulatory changes in the field of transport, will ensure that all new buildings and all new materials will be designed universally. There'll be enough people with disabilities to say they're on time. The government is in favour of a step-by-step approach to the issue of upgrading existing buildings and outdoor areas. Such an upgrade will cost. We will therefore take different building areas into consideration in regulations, and the new planning and building law will have such a regulatory home. Regulation is as binding as law. Here we have to do a lot to succeed. Therefore, this law provides a framework, a beginning, which means that we need to intensify efforts in all areas of society in order to ensure accessibility for all. It applies to the transport sector and to the education sector. I fully support the committee's statement that it is a very comprehensive work ahead of us. All barriers are not removed overnight, but the law should be a central tool in the further work. Enforcement of the law is important and challenging. Sectoral, municipal and county authorities, industrial, employers and builders are jointly responsible. The state has to be a model, and so we've started a lot of work in many municipalities, and many municipalities are moving ahead to show the way to other municipalities. As regards the upgrading of existing transport equipment, the Government will return to this in its national transport plan. We will also have an action plan that will systematically go through this work. But it is important for me to stress that law alone is not enough. We have to follow up systematically in all areas. The Committee refers to the central role of municipalities in the enforcement and implementation of the provisions of the Law on Planning and Building. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs are responsible for following up the Law on Planning and Building against municipalities. In the context of the forthcoming Government Action Plan for increased accessibility, the contribution of municipalities will be assessed. Local action plans are important here. I'm proud of this law. It means a long step for the rights of all people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e797	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e800	The big issue is the introduction of deadlines. All the organisations – and I say everyone – want deadlines for existing buildings and outdoor areas. Experience from the United States shows that deadlines are alpha and omega. We were told that from all organisations when the committee was there. The recommendation was that deadlines be introduced, as cases were then implemented. That this was done, they also looked at the buildings there. The United States is miles ahead of Norway in this area. Then the Council of State showed that regulation is as binding as law. That's right. But there is a significant difference between a regulation and a law. A regulation may be amended by the Ministry in a short time, i.e.: that it is much easier to change a regulation than a law. Then my question is, Isn't it better with a law? Or is it that all the organizations are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e810	Time limits are important. If we, for example, looking at the County Baths in Rogaland, questions were asked whether it was more expensive with universal design. Then he who drew the boats said it only costs what it costs to have a wiper. I have to make these boats available to everyone. In the case of existing construction and commercial equipment, we know that it has a cost framework. I note that the Progress Party says that they cannot promise that this money will be included in their alternative budget. So they're waiting for the result of the treatment here. They're not willing to prioritize this. We believe that when we go into one area and say that these are our goals for the transport sector, we have to go in and give the money it actually costs. That is why we are interested in doing systematic work in the education sector and in the transport sector, to give priority to the most important thing first, and when we get clear regulations, make sure that it does not just become empty promises. That's something we're going to follow up on in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e817	I believe that the government parties and the right in the vote agree that there should be deadlines also for existing construction, but that it should be provided for in the Planning and Building Act and in regulations, and that the deadlines should be concrete and binding, but for different sectors it should be prioritised in different order. The store now deals with the law of the plan and the building. The building part of the law must have been completed during the harvest. Will the Council of State help to ensure, through that treatment, that binding deadlines are set in the regulation, and by the Stortinge in the setting, so that the concerns of the organisations about these deadlines are mitigated and not absolute?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e824	When we're going to go through this, we're going to look at the different building categories. It's possible that there are some buildings that stand out, which are more urgent to have universally unmistakable. This could be done, for example, by: be schools. If we're going to set a deadline, we have to be very clear that it's a final deadline. What we're going to prioritize first, we're going to come back to at a later date. But there is one thing that is also important in relation to temptations, and that is that we get a much better follow-up to the Law on Planning and Building in this area through better control and supervision. This will also lead to more results than we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e831	As a relatively new state council, it must be nice to be associated with something positive. A swift ratification of the UN Convention on Additional Protocol No. 12 to the EMK will be such a positive case. Doesn't the Council of State think this has taken too long? What will the Council of State do to get more on the offensive in this matter? What's so difficult that you have to spend two years investigating this? In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State itself has shown that it is unclear whether further legislative measures are needed. Does not the Council of State feel that this is urgent enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e836	I'm concerned that we're going to do this really. I recently attended a ministerial meeting with all EU ministers in this area. What is important for Norway is that we must change all the laws that conflict with this Convention. This applies to the Code of Civil Protection. That many people have a guardian who means that they do not have enough individual freedom, not enough individual responsibility for themselves, is a matter that we have to change. I don't want to be familiar with the fact that we're ratifying a convention halfway. When we're going to ratify, we're going to be a model for others. Not all countries that have so far been ratified are the best in this area. But what is Norwegian tradition, as the representative Karin Andersen so well explained, is, when we do, we do it really.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e841	Not to mention the law down: it's a lot that's good, even though some of us have pointed out some faults. But I have a question for the Council of State to get ahead of this, because the Left is quite impatient and wants us to get to the goal faster. We also have a concrete proposal on the matter we are dealing with today, on the possibility of introducing depreciation rules for individual measures, which are designed to cost universal design expenditure of up to 1 million. kr. There may be another sum for that part, but the purpose is that more then will prioritise availability and universal design. The amount of 1 million. kr may be slightly higher, but this is an incentive to facilitate availability more quickly. How do the government councils view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e848	I am concerned that as we now go into the different areas, we are going to allocate money in relation to the objectives we set ourselves. What is the problem with the proposal for such depreciation rules is that it will be very difficult to define them. And if that's how we want depreciation rules, it also has to be financed. Depreciation rules are the same as granting state budget entries. We're concerned that we can be much more targeted through direct appropriations in each sector than by receiving depreciation rules, because when upgrading a building, some may argue that they have done so in order to contribute to universal design, while there may have been completely different intentions with the upgrade they've made. So I think direct appropriations are more effective than depreciation rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e854	The previous answer from the Council of State was, as I understood it, that deadlines were to be introduced, but that was to be done by regulation. So the government further replied that this was costly. This means that the Council of State considers that there are costs that prevent time-limits from being introduced into the law. But with a regulation, you can back out if costs are too high. That must be the basis for wanting to introduce regulations instead. It shows that organisations are rightly sceptical about what the Government is doing with the absence of deadlines. It is for this reason that the Progress Party wishes to have a financing mechanism in the form of a fund, absorptives of the State budget or a fissure layer. Of course, the progress party is going to put in the necessary money when we get an answer to that. Isn't the absence of deadlines just one way to save money?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e861	The reason is that we want to go through each sector systematically, and take the most important thing first. That's why we want to go into regulations in the different areas where we see the different building categories relative to each other. This will be costly, but what matters to the Government and government parties is that when we go in for a regulation, this should be followed up with money. I notice that the Progress Party has a different approach. They come first with the promises, then you see in the second round how much it costs. This is excellent if you're in opposition, but when you're in the responsible government position, you can't do that. Then you have to be aware that when you promise something, it has to be followed up with money. It does not keep waving beautiful promises - it also has to be paid for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e866	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e869	We all have good reason to be happy today when we are going to adopt a new law on discrimination and accessibility. We now have a legal platform for combating discrimination against people with disabilities in society. As important as the legal formulations are the political and, let me say, the cross-political emphasis that is being made today. We clearly say that we no longer accept that a large group is being prevented from participating in society, in employment and in social activities that most people take for granted. We have a screaming need for labour in all parts of our working life. Unemployment is at the bottom, and we import large-scale labour. Nevertheless, many people are out of work, including many people with disabilities. We all too often hear about people with disabilities who can and will work, but who are placed on social security because the working world does not know how to make use of their resources. This is unacceptable. It's unacceptable for those who are being shut out, and it's unacceptable for society as a whole. Our goal is an inclusive working life, where there is room for everyone. In this new law, we say, first of all, that we should have universal design of all activities aimed at the general public, of means of transport, of buildings. Furthermore, we say that the workplace should be individually organised to ensure that a worker or jobseeker with disabilities can get or keep work. It will take time for us to say that we have a universally designed society and a working life that adapts to people with disabilities. Construction needs to be rebuilt. Old buses, trains and trams are to be replaced by new and adapted buses, trains and trams. And the labour market is going to change. This doesn't happen overnight, but we're going to have a development that goes in the right direction. That is why we need action plans for universal design. We're going to tackle the challenges and work purposefully to break down barriers. We impose a specific activity and reporting obligation on employers. Employers who have more than 50 employees and employers in the public sector are required to work actively, targeted and planned to promote the law in their activities, we say in Section 3 of the Act. We oblige companies to promote the purpose of the law in terms of recruitment, pay and working conditions, promotion, development opportunities and protection against harassment. We also impose a similar obligation on social organisations. This activity obligation is followed by a reporting obligation, which unfortunately does not receive the support of the members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right. They claim in their note that this would lead to bureaucracy without any demonstrable effect. In spite of this, they want the work on accessibility and discrimination to be described in a separate section of the annual reports of enterprises - 'in order not to be forgotten', as they say. I think it's important to legislate a reporting obligation, as we do today. A reporting obligation will require a systematic approach to their challenges and solutions. Over time, such a systematic approach will also affect the attitudes of businesses and organisations. There are such processes and attitudes that we see in health, environmental and safety work in the workplace, and that is how we want to do in terms of anti-discrimination and accessibility work in the workplace. The left, on its side, wants the activation obligation to apply to all enterprises, regardless of size. It is, in my view, a legitimate wish. It's true, as the Left claims, that most companies have less than five employees. However, in this round I will support the restrictions we are now imposing on the obligation of activity and reporting. I think it's important that the companies covered by these obligations have an organisational apparatus that handles the practice. In enterprises with over 50 employees, you have to have a work environment committee. Such a selection will be an excellent forum for discussions on the practice of anti-discrimination. To the extent that the activity and reporting obligation threshold should be lowered, I believe that it could be usefully linked to the presence of work environment committees. As you know, it should be one in all enterprises with more than 50 employees and in enterprises with more than 20 employees when one of the parties so requires. In our comment, the majority of the committee says that we are asking the Government to follow developments closely and, if necessary, to return to the Storting with a new assessment if it turns out to be necessary. With this law, we are going to build down social barriers to the disabled and prevent the creation of new ones. Let it also become a law that opens our working life to those who are currently excluded because of disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e888	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e891	A society that's accessible to everyone, I think we're taking for granted that we're going to have-- in between, we might even think we have it. But it's not like that. Every day, many in the country are discriminated against. We who sit in this room make laws that we expect others to follow. Therefore, it is important that we also celebrate at our own door. We have countless public buildings that today are not universally designed. We have NAV offices, we have schools, town halls and libraries that are not available if you bring a wheelchair or a baby carriage, and that do not have solutions if you are blind or hear poorly. I have been away in municipalities that have planned major conversions without thinking about availability. We can't and we're not going to have it. Hanstad School, also referred to by the representative Karin Andersen, has participated in a project with Norway's Handicap Association, where they, among others, participated. has had an availability study. Class 7 a has been on tour in its own municipality with wheelchairs and writes in its report of the visit to town hall: ‘We could not enter the main entrance to the town hall. There was a sign that showed that there was a lift, which we had to go and look for. It was completely on the other side of the building. That's good it was door opener there. The elevator was in trouble. ‘... This is a classic example. They continue to write about their own school: ‘There are fine lifts here that are not in use. Only the ladies use the elevator. We also have a disability fever. It's not in use. We have a big school yard, so there's a lot of space to run around on, but it's very little to do in the spare minutes for someone who's disabled. ‘... Students at Hanstad School have understood what many politicians have spent a little longer time understanding and taking over, namely that we have a society that excludes and that is not accessible to everyone. In particular, I think they describe in a good way what it is like for children and young people to face major obstacles and be kept out. It's quite obvious that we have a way to go. That's why I think this law is so important. We must be more solar in terms of discrimination, and we must be clear that we must have a society that is universally designed and accessible to all. The debate today may have been rather technical, and very marked by deadlines, years, types of existing construction and transport. I think it's important, but the crucial thing is whether we're willing to follow this law with measures and with money and investment, so that we actually fulfill the law's intention and get a society that's accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e912	Although with this law, we take great and very important steps to improve accessibility and not least respect for people with disabilities, I want to express disappointment in one area. I am disappointed that the well-founded views of the Landsförbund of Hörselshämmerde have not been followed up well enough by the bulk of the population. One can rightly say that the hearing impaired have been listened to, but not heard. HLF has 55,000 members of the country's largest organisation for disabled people. It has more members than any political party. They represent 600 000 people in Norway who have a hearing impairment. I get the feeling that you actually don't believe in these numbers. The number 600 000 is not the result of any 'think of a number' game, it's a public number. And not enough with that: the number of hearing impaired people is increasing, among other things. because we live longer, but it is especially among young people we see the biggest increase in hearing impaired people. To perceive what is being said, whether in public offices, in transport, in cultural events or in cinemas, is in our realm, modern society a human right, like being able to participate in political work, in the municipal government halls, which still in very many cases lack telescopic channels. It is important for democracy to enable everyone to hear. Subtitles of NRK broadcasts should be a matter of course, that everyone was texted. Subtitles of e.g. Norwegian films should be a requirement, at least those that receive state support, and that does most people. So the film lobby says that it destroys the artistic impression of having Norwegian text. Then I say, "Hello, is the Norwegian language in writing so terrible?" When the films are shown abroad, they are translated into both English, German and French. That's simply not good enough. Young people with hearing impairment could become consumers of cinema and increase the number of visitors, thus increasing the performance of the films. Why isn't anyone thinking about it? I'm sorry that both in the film industry and in the bureaucracy, hearing impairment is a problem, instead of looking at them as an opportunity for greater profit both in their films and events. Otherwise, I expect all the information on the bus, train, tram, plane and boat to be technologically arranged, so that hearing impaired persons can get all the information they need, on the same line with others. Only then will we live up to the good intentions of the law. I hope that the Council of State will also take this into account in the further follow-up of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e925	The comments of the representative Brørby are worth noting when we are about to adopt a law with a purpose paragraph that says that we should ‘Promoting equality and equality, ensuring equal opportunities and rights of social participation for all, irrespective of their function, and preventing discrimination on grounds of disability’. And we're also saying, ‘The law shall contribute to the reduction of social barriers to disability and prevent the creation of new ones. ‘... I'm reading the purpose section because there's reason to get the width of what we're now adopting. This is followed by 19 law paragraphs that say how we should actually live up to this ambition. This creates a real change for people in this country. It does not just create a real change for people with disabilities. It creates a real change for all of us, because we all come from time to time in situations where we have reduced functional capacity, and we are all in a situation where we benefit from a universally designed society. Then it might seem that in the debate we have been hurt to make one point of the whole point, i.e. about the introduction of deadlines or not for existing buildings, facilities, outdoor areas and means of transport. It's an important question, but whether the majority's or the different minorities' choice of solutions will be what gives the most effective attainment of the ambitions of the law, I think you have to be very wise to be sloppy in this room. I think we're going to see that here we're going to put a lot of hard work in order to live up to the ambition that the existing is going to be universally designed. Then again, there is reason to say that claiming that this law lacks deadlines is simply with shame to report errors. You've probably allowed yourself to speak against better knowledge when you say that. Then I also took the word to correct a small error that is in the setting. We refer in the position of the committee which is now in the process of assessing an overall general law on discrimination. Then we've been hurt to say that it's also the Syse Committee. It's not. Professor Hans Petter Graver is the head of that committee, and in Chapter 2.2 the term should have been the ‘Grapher Committee’. Then it's corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e944	What made me take the floor was the post to Berit Brørby from the Workers' Party. She actually made a very good post, which describes part of the situation for very many. Unfortunately, some things are excluded in terms of accessibility measures for, among other things. Hearing impaired. I think it's a shame that the majority in this room don't support what the minority actually suggests. I think it should be a matter of course that when a person who is hearing-impaired comes to watch Norwegian films or other types of TV programs in the state channel NRK, they had at least so much availability that they could get what that film or that broadcast is all about. I also think it's sad that you can't go to the cinema and sit down and understand what's shown on the canvas. Because what's the point of going to the cinema and buying yourself a bottle of shower and popcorn when you don't even get what's happening on the canvas? Then I think a lot of the group of course chooses to be home. This means that a large group - there are more than 600 000 people with hearing impairment in Norway - are virtually deprived of the opportunity to participate in that offer. That's why it was interesting to hear the representative Brørby. With those attitudes, I hope that she will be able to press on with her own party, with the Council of State and with the rest of the College of Government, so that you can use reason and perhaps at the first and best crossroads come back and support the proposals that the minority in this Chamber has promoted. I also think it's important, I think of another example, that applies to airports: I've met several people, among others. on the Gardermo, a hearing-impaired person, sitting at the gate and having despair, for it says on the gate that the aeroplane is leaving. But they don't get any information about new 'gate', and it's a big problem. It should be easy to do in the data world we're in today. When you are sitting at a gate and it has moved, the new gate should have appeared on the screen. Unfortunately, many hearing-impaired people have got into the trouble that they have become late for their planes and have had to buy new tickets, because it is not so easy to get refunded cheap tickets. I think it's a shame that we're not going to get a better integration of everyone into this society. I hope that the Council of State will also take this into account in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e955	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 567]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e963	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e971	During the debate Vera Lyskleat, on behalf of the Right and the Left, presented the following proposals:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e1148	The progress bar has been warned that they want to change the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e1161	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President assumed that the Advance Party would like to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e1173	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e1181	During the debate, 21 proposals have been put forward. It's proposed no. 1-7, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 8, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 9 and 10, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 11, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 12 and 13, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 14-16, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 17, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 18, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 19-21, by André N. Skelstad on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e1346	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 11, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The aim of the law is to promote equality and to ensure equal opportunities and rights of participation for all, irrespective of their function, and to prevent discrimination on grounds of disability. The law shall contribute to the reduction of social barriers to disability and to the prevention of the creation of new ones. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e1531	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 16 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ Paragraph 13 is replaced by the following: If there are circumstances that give reason to believe that there has been a breach of the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 or 12, the usual rules on the burden of proof apply. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e1876	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e1886	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-10-lower.ana.ud2666e1907	So the things on today's map are done. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
