ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e47	The representatives Sverre Myrli, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and Irene Johansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The previously provisionally exempted alternates, by Finnmark County Ann-Kristin Engstad and by Oslo Karin Yrvin, have taken their seats. The called alternate of the Uppland County, Synnøve Branden Klemetrud, has taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo on leave from 3 November to 7 November and from the representative of Sigvald Uppøen Hansen on leave from 3 November to 5 November, both to take part in the election as observers for the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly at the election in the United States of America by the Workers' Party Group on the welfare permit of the representative Olav Akselsen from 3 November to 5 November and until further notice by the Progress Party Group on sickness leave of the representative Åge Starheim from 3 November until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Kirsti SaxiFor Hordaland County: Tove Linnea BrandvikFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Oddvar Hallset ReiaquamFor Telemark County: Lise Wiik
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e121	Kirsti Saxi, Tove Linnea Brandvik, Oddvar Hallset Reiacam and Lise Wiik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e127	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected as presidents of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e148	To this end, the Financial Committee shall submit a statement of consent to the approval of Decision No EEA. 79/2008. The Decision concerns the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of a Directive dealing with procedural rules and criteria for the prudential assessment of acquisitions and increases of holdings in the financial sector. Since the implementation of Norwegian law requires legislative amendment, the decision of the EEA Committee was normally taken subject to the consent of the Storting in accordance with the provisions of the Basic Law. The Directive formally amends the Non-life Insurance Directive, the Life Assurance Directive and the Financial Instruments and Reinsurance Directive and revised banking Directives. The position of the Financial Committee is unanimous and the draft opinion has been submitted to the Foreign Affairs Committee which has not commented on the vote. With this, I recommend the unanimous recommendation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e161	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e177	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e186	The Committee has a divided position on the proposal for a representative to extend the pilot scheme with municipal responsibility for child protection services. Behind the majority position, i.e. The committee's recommendation is the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party. As the rapporteur, I would like to justify the Committee's recommendation and expect the other parties to justify their respective proposals. The background to the state’s taking responsibility for county child protection was more, but the main starting point was that child protection was perceived as being in a crisis-like situation. County Child Protection had some major shortcomings, and the offer was very different from one place to another. At the same time, child protection was largely based on private institutions that were partly heavily overpriced. The need for child protection reform was therefore evident. Another aspect that further led to a change was that the framework conditions for the provision of services by county children were changed in the context of the health reform, among others. by transferring a number of the co-operation partners of the protection of children from the county to the State of the regional health establishments. The aim of the reform of child protection was to address these problems while at the same time facilitating good local solutions, focusing on prevention and helping more people at an early stage. The child protection reform was ambitious and very extensive and made great demands on both new and old organisations. Such major organisational changes require and require both time and resources to be implemented. The challenges facing NAV reform are an example of this. I believe that both the Department and the Stortinget initially underestimated the challenges you faced, thus contributing to underfinancing in the beginning of the reform. It is therefore gratifying to see that economics and organisation are taking shape and that Bufetat has developed new cooperation and organisational patterns in parallel with extensive training programmes. When the reform was launched, the municipality of Trondheim was granted a temporary task-differentiated child protection effort, because the municipality had for a long time worked with collaboration across various services for children and young people and had a lot of expertise in the field. The experiment was granted as a transitional arrangement and the positive experience gained in the development of the State child protection system is preserved. If child protection is to work well, it depends entirely on well-functioning cooperation between municipal and state child protection. Bufdir is thus in the process of following up the Rambøll report and the recently concluded cooperation agreement between KS and the Ministry, which is part of the work to ensure that the country and the municipality move in the same direction. The 2004 Child Protection Reform has come closer to the achievement of the objectives that were then drawn up. Starting municipal pilot projects with the intention of challenging the state child protection model now when the state child protection system is in the process of achieving the objectives of the reform, we feel that we are unlucky and could give false signals and be perceived as if the child protection reform is not sustainable. In this context, the Committee recommends that the proposal to restore and extend the pilot scheme with municipal responsibility for the childcare services be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e205	I will first be allowed to thank the proposers for keeping the focus on child protection. That's important, and we can't allow ourselves to leave it sour and go for our own machine. Too many individual issues that we bigotry representatives get to know show that it still doesn't work properly in child protection in Norway. The major child protection reform is now within its fifth year. This should indicate that a certain overview has been given of whether the reform is successful or not. Since the reform entered into force on 1 January 2004, there has been an increase in the budgets of more than DKK 1 billion. There are 5,000 people working in state child protection, and an increasing number of private institutions are being laid down. We hear stories about children being sent far away from farms to live in an institution. We hear about children and young people who are not allowed to live in the institutions they have found fit for, because they are private and therefore not on the list of the institutions the counties and municipalities have been notified of the use of child protection by the state. I'm not going to blackmail, because I know there's a formidable job in the Child Protection Service out in the municipalities. Very many children get help and follow-up; it's not the municipal child protection I want to live to. What worries me is that the teams do not function properly and do not offer any assistance to the small municipalities that they were supposed to help. Regional State Children’s Protection Offices provide opinions in individual cases that, no matter how well-known the municipal child protection system is to the individual child, they are run over by the state child protection system. How many of the 5,000 who work in state child protection there are who have direct contact with children, don't know, but that part of the problem can lie here, is definitely. Still, we can read in the National Audit Office's report that national child protection is struggling with economic governance. When you hear about the individual issues around the country, there may be little doubt that non-discrimination is not at all, although this was one of the main reasons for the reform, as well as economic governance and good cooperation with municipalities. The reports we get back show that none of those intentions are met. It's the kids that's being hit. Yeah, it's the most vulnerable of all kids hit. They're being moved, and they're being misplaced. They perceive that they have no self-esteem, they are transported from one place to another. Often these children have had unpredictable lives before the state got care of them, and the jam looks as if the state has nothing to offer but unforeseeable it either. We agree with the representatives who propose to give the municipalities more responsibility, but we have a completely different approach to this. We want the money to follow the child, but the municipalities decide which solutions to choose for each child. But equally fully, child protection shall be a State responsibility. That is why we have proposals on this. The Progress Party wants to reform child protection completely, and it's a pleasure that the Government is partly on the line we've put ourselves on. But it's still a long way to go. What may frustrate me the most is how the Council of State in the last few weeks has stated in the media that municipal child protection should be given more power, that foster parents should have better follow-up, etc., while at the same time, in the letter on the subject, she is concerned that the proposal for a representative can give the impression of weakening the reform, while the Council of State is constantly changing both the content and the intention of the same reform. It can be seen as contradictory, in particular given that at least one of the proposals that the Council of State is now making was dealt with in the United Kingdom in 2007–08 and then received no support from the government parties. So what's happened in half a year's time, I don't know, but something is. I just hope that the Government now also looks at all the other proposals made by the opposition in this period of supervision, post-protection, the liquidation of the county councils, etc. I bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e228	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e231	The testing scheme with local responsibility for child protection in Trondheim was initiated while the Right was in government. The rationale for the trial scheme was to find out whether it is appropriate to make changes to the system in order to solve some of the problems we see today that the system is struggling with. The Trondheim trial has shown us that municipal autonomy has given desired results on the overall objectives of the entire child protection system. Children and young people in the municipality of Trondheim have received early help, and they have received adapted assistance. Coordination between the different service providers and the overall chain of action has worked very well as part of the pilot scheme. The professional competence of child protection has been of high quality because it has been possible to have an exciting career development locally. The conflicts we see between municipal and state child protection across the country have naturally not had Trondheim to use resources, and there has been a great deal of focus on the diversity of service provision. The municipality of Trondheim is now in the forefront of adapting the measures to individual children. After the pilot scheme was launched, we have seen a great political commitment to child protection in Trondheim. This has contributed to the political will to increase child protection efforts beyond the other municipalities. Trondheim's municipality wanted to go further with the trial system they had, and as well as the central federation of the municipalities as the children's ombudsman has, with the address of the cooperation problems between municipal and state child protection, clearly expressed its concern that the Trondheim project was terminated. In other words, it is only the Minister for Children and Gender Equality who believes that this liquidation is sensible, now also due to the government parties and the Christian People's Party. We had hoped that these parties had seen the need for knowledge with several shades and experiences that could lead us further into a reform that is obviously struggling. Big reforms, like the one we have in child protection, will get the time they need to be implemented. It can't be that you stop thinking about alternative ways of doing good things to implement reforms with obvious weaknesses, as we now see in child protection. This case clearly shows a lack of political capacity to challenge the weaknesses of the reform and to exploit the potential for improvement that could lie in pilot schemes. The Council of State points out that the overall objective of the child protection reform is to ensure that all children receive equal offers throughout the country. There is no evidence that the reform has succeeded in this. In the right, we can accept differences if these help to keep working for better offers for everyone. It is, after all, better that in some municipalities and regions there is a better provision of child protection than in other parts of the country, if the option is that all children with child protection receive the same offer and this turns out to be a worse offer. The right is seriously concerned that more and more children are in need of child protection measures. The right is also very concerned about the strong state governance of child protection. For the right, it is important that decisions on the future of children be taken in close proximity to the child in question, and the parents of this child. In the opinion of the Court of Justice, it is important that municipal politicians see the enormous responsibility of ensuring a good provision of child protection. But here, I'm sure our local politicians have greater confidence than what we see on the part of the government. The right would have wanted municipal pilot schemes that could be adapted to a large municipality, as is done in Trondheim, and also a pilot who had been linked to cooperation relations between a number of small municipalities, as we now see access to within municipal child protection. That would have given us interesting experience of how we could improve the contact area and the transition between the municipal and state child protection that we now see works pretty badly. We have a lot of things and a lot of input that tells us that municipal child protection is struggling to get the measures they think are right for the children. It shouldn't be like that. With this, I address the proposal that has been put forward by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e250	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e253	What this matter is about, is superior to what works, and what does not work in child protection today. From the Christian People's Party's side, we do not base our prestige on saying that the administration reform is sacred or untrue because we were put in the department when it was introduced. The reform was necessary, and it has been far from five years since it was started. All reforms need to be followed over time, and one must take the necessary steps when not everything is working optimally. That's exactly what the Right points to in this proposal: everything doesn't work optimally in child protection today. But the Christian People's Party does not mean that the solution is to go away from the reform and order that we have today. We think it's important at the moment to keep working to make the existing system work better. But it's very important that the elements where it doesn't work well enough today are taken up and improved. We are constantly signaling that cooperation between the state and municipal child protection systems is too poor, and that this has unfortunate consequences for children and young people. The Christian People's Party believes that the Council of State must ensure that national and municipal child protection works better together. Rambøll Management has produced a report that takes into account the experience of municipalities with their teams. They set out a series of measures that could create better cooperation. We hope that the work Bufdir does to follow up on this, will produce good results, and we ask the Council of State to keep the Committee informed about the work in an appropriate way. So a little bit about the supply problem. The focus program that NRK sent earlier this fall illustrated a situation that we don't want in our child protection. A growing number of drug, care, child protection and rehabilitation sites are being provided. Ideal actors use words such as ‘maktarrogance’ and ‘one-sided focus on economics’ when talking about regional offices in the Children’s, Youth and Family Status. In Child Protection, there are many ideal service providers who don't drive to make money, but to serve others. The EEA Agreement opens up the possibility for the public to derogate from the offer for non-profit organisations operating health and care services for no commercial purposes. Equally, a growing number of drug-care, child-rescue and rehabilitation sites are being offered – despite the fact that the red-green government opted not to put Grandma on offer. Our Nabolanda, Sweden and Denmark, make great use of the space provided by EU rules for exemptions for this type of service. But not Norway. With two no-parties, the government goes further than it has to in order to attract the EU and market forces. That's why it's important that we change this now, and that you don't run such a hard competition. We are pleased that the majority in the committee are involved in stressing that the management reform did not go out to put children and young people on offer. We are pleased that the majority in the Committee has agreed that competition is not always an appropriate tool. Some sectors and areas may not be eligible for the postponing competition. Children must receive the most appropriate supply and economic priorities should not be decisive for the supply of their children. A good child protection service has the condition that those with daily responsibilities can rely on timely planning and secure frameworks. Therefore, child protection is poor for traditional supply competition. The Christian People's Party believes that non-profit organisations providing health, care or child care services must be exempted from the requirement of supply, whether it is the state or the municipality that is to provide the services. The majority of the Committee also points to the secret of exemptions under public procurement law, and encourages its use by institutions in the field of child protection. State council, we think it's important that this be followed up. The Christian People's Party has a vision of a society of quality of life and community, a society in which competition and economy are the means, but not the goal, and a society in which we care about each other, where in a difficult life situation everyone is treated as fellow human beings and with care. We hope that the government will share that vision and quickly stop the release of competition when it concerns both drug addicts and child-rescue children, which is a theme here. It's important to have a good public discussion about child protection both here at the Storting, in the media and otherwise in society. But we must never forget to see all the good work being done. Every day, thousands of children are added to child protection. They see the individual, and they help the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e279	The Child Protection Reform has barely worked for five years, and only one in six applicants was finally approved and thus carried out task differentiation in the area of child protection. Nevertheless, a minority in the Family and Culture Committee, Right and Left, concludes that there is now a right approach to restoring and continuing the pilot scheme with a local total responsibility for the Child Protection Service. It was the Bondevik II government that was in the forefront of the reform, and it is alarming in my opinion that both the Right and the Left so soon after the reform appears to have lost faith in their own project. On the basis of a simple experiment, as I see it, hasty and little nuanced conclusions are drawn. The result of this one experiment is raised to a brilliant example of how right it is to prepare the basis for new reforms in this area, and there is only praise, without me seeing that this has evidence in the department's evaluation and letter to the committee. However, it should not be underestimated that the municipality of Trondheim already had a well-functioning child protection system at municipal level before the experiment, with a high level of competence, and where cooperation had been worked for a long time across different services. However, less use of institutional settings and more use of home-based interventions and foster homes has long had broad professional and political support. But unlike the rest of the country, Trondheim municipality had an increase in institutional use during the trial period. In addition, they had problems in having the right offer available to individuals at all times when the need was present. Nor did the municipality itself develop and offer a differentiated and well enough offer and had to purchase more services from the private commercial market. The Central Party, however, is pleased that the Christian People’s Party is committed to the reform. Now it is important to give a clear signal that does not undermine the reform, or create uncertainty about whether it is intended to be of a lasting nature. At the same time, we must aggressively take hold of the conditions that do not function well enough. Other recommendations are highlighted in the Rambøll report. A sector that is at risk and provides unsafe framework conditions rarely, in experience, provides optimal services. According to the Ministry, since the reform came into force, it has not come to any request or proposal for a reversal or amendment of the reform. During the last month's committee tour, we were informed by a representative of the State of Sogn and Fjordane that there had not been the major cooperation problems between the municipalities and Bufetat in the West. It suggests that there is no organisation itself that creates a conflict of competence and conflicts between levels of government. One explanation here might be that the county apparatus, including management, mainly moved directly into the state Bufetate. Thus, one has managed to maintain the previous proximity to the municipal level while strengthening the transfer of competences and guidance to municipalities. The centre party opposed the reform of health and the governmentisation of health policy. However, the implementation of the health reform had to lead to the gradual follow-up of neighbouring services with a broad cooperation interface. We'll take note of that. As long as a majority still wants to give this organisation time, the Centre believes that the focus should be on the content and quality of the services provided, and contribute to the peace, security and stability of the framework conditions both for the more than 4000 employees and the many thousands of child protection children and young people affected. The Progress Party limits the challenges of child protection to a question of designating and economic models. That's also what the Center Party believes is a dangerous derailment, which shifts the focus away from making the services we have better. It is argued from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left that there is nothing to do with the other child protection services in the country if some large municipalities are given total responsibility for child protection in their municipalities. In isolation, large municipalities can discharge such responsibilities, but the Centre Party does not want the Generalist Commune to be diluted and where a few large or more small in inter-municipal cooperation will have extended responsibilities in some areas. The fact that so few applied for task differentiation before the reform is in itself a signal that only a few municipalities felt competent to enter into such a total responsibility. Many small municipalities have had the experience of engaging in intercommunal cooperation in the area of municipal child-rescue protection, but have become several times more expensive than the proposed. It is obvious that decentralisation of authority and resources would not only tap Buffetat for professional resources, but would also quickly become an inefficient use of the sector's total financial resources. Finally, the Central Party will stress that, after all, the municipalities are the main actors in the area of child protection. This is where the primary responsibility for prevention lies, and here the initial assessments of timely assistance are carried out. As a result, the multi-annual commitment to the competence and knowledge-enhancing of municipal child protection up to 2011 and the development of the provision of continuing education are where the focus should be right now – i.e. no more new experiments, structural changes or reforms. In addition, the possibility of good development of skills, professional development and well-established cooperation with relevant services support the maintenance of a strong, comprehensive children's, youth and family life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e298	I do not want to contribute to more attempts with more extensive local responsibility for child protection services. Incentives to multiple such attempts will not strengthen the principle of an equally good offer across the country for those in need of child protection assistance. One of the main objectives of the child protection reform has been to balance the large differences in the offer that existed when the county was responsible. That is why an important reform was launched by the previous government. By making the second line service state-owned, we have had the opportunity to expand a service that ensures an equivalent offer and greater quality. By pooling all competences in one and the same establishment, we have also had the opportunity to build up a high and varied level of competence and a diverse range of services for the individual child-restraint. A large and important field of action in the field of national child protection has been professional updating and further development. Large-scale research and development projects have been launched, leading to new knowledge and a wider range of instruments across the country. Trondheim Municipality was the only municipality that was granted the task differentiation project when the State took over the county council's tasks in the area of child protection in January 2004. Tests under the Test Act may be accepted for a period of up to four years. The test period may be further extended up to two years. If reforms are planned in accordance with the experiment, the trial period may be extended until the reform enters into force. The aim of the experiment is to contribute to administrative development. However, it is not appropriate to approve a test if it is not appropriate to continue. The evaluation of the trial in Trondheim showed both positive and less positive results. Among other things, Trondheim had the municipality, unlike the rest of the country, increased institutional use. Trondheim had not even a differentiated offer adapted to the individual child or youth in the field of child protection. The development of expenditure was also slightly higher in Trondheim than in the rest of the country. At the same time, Trondheim has made a good effort to invest in home-based interventions. Due to the local authority’s responsibility for both the first and second line services, it has been easier to initiate what is an intermediary between municipal relief measures and action at the second line level. The measures were implemented because the cooperation between the local authorities worked well. The good experience Trondheim had, we have to take care of and use in the further development of state child protection. I know that work is already in progress. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of a good dialogue between the big cities and the state child protection system. This dialog can get better. This is actively being worked on, among others. through our cooperation with the Local Governments' Central Association. State and municipal child protection must work together on what is our most important task, namely to help vulnerable children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e315	We have received a statement from the Council of State now on things that work – and work well. It's okay. However, it is also things about this reform that do not work well, that we have to deal with. My question to the Council of State is simply: will there be an evaluation of this reform soon?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e320	We need to evaluate this reform. We've evaluated parts of it, which show that something has gone in the right direction. We have received a more balanced offer, but the funding of it was when it was launched, not good enough. It is also important to look at the quality of the offer, and that is what this discussion in the hall today is also about. We also have to evaluate that and see if the targets that we set are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e325	I have understood that the Council of State does not want any new pilot schemes in one way or another in relation to the municipalities. Nevertheless, it is that we get quite a lot of feedback from municipal child protection about very concrete cooperation problems. Governments were concerned about the increase in institutional use as a negative aspect of Trondheim’s child protection management. It is a theme such as: often arise — a direct disagreement about institutional or foster home placement. On a committee tour in More and Romesdal, for example, we were within a variety of themes that revealed disagreement between municipal child protection and the state opposite. In the articles of the Council of State, I can't say I noticed what the Council of State is going to do with this. It may be that the Council of State does not believe that this is a problem. But if she thinks it's a problem, it would be very interesting to hear a little more concrete what she's thinking about doing with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e330	Cooperation between municipal and state child protection can be improved. That is why we have signed a cooperation agreement with the Municipal Councils in order to strengthen that work, which does not work well enough in all municipalities. In addition, we have set up a dispute resolution body that can take decisions in cases of disagreement. And we call for cooperation agreements between the department and the municipalities, because we see – as Olemic Thommessen also says – that it doesn't work as well everywhere as we had hoped.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e335	One of the objectives of the reform is to ensure an equivalent supply across the country. We know that in some states or regions there may be good access in institutions; other places it may be bad access. When it comes to the goal of securing an equivalent supply for children, I wonder what the Council of State intends to do. To illustrate: If a cage in South Sunnmare and needs an institution space for a child under 12 years of age, this child must travel to Trøndelagen. This means that one must travel by plane, and there is a day's journey away when the relatives should visit the children and keep in touch with them. This is problematic. What will the Council of State do to ensure — where a parent cannot be used and where an institution is required — that children should not travel so far and avoid such long distances when it is advisable to be close to the family?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e340	It is a clear objective of the reform to take action, whether in foster homes or in institutions, in the vicinity of the environment from which they come. Not least for children living in North Norway, we have seen that we have had a little more establishment of institutions in these areas, and this has led to fewer people traveling that far. It's clearly a goal to get, to a greater extent, an offer near where you come from. Then it is not least important to have more foster homes. I know that in many cases the representative in this room has been concerned about the conditions of state foster homes. Now we finally got an agreement. I think it's going to lead to more people wanting to take on this important task, and then we can strongly facilitate actions in the vicinity of the individual child's environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e345	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e350	I really didn't intend to take the word again. But the representative Eia made some statements that were so monstrous that I can't leave them undisputed. The representative said, among other things: the Progress Party makes child protection ‘economic models’. It is at best historyless, and in the worst case, a claim that should be borne by the representative Eia's own account. Because there's something we've been fighting for, it's the children's right and the weakest right. At the heart of our hearts we wage a struggle for these children. From the time of John I. Alvheim, we have fought for the best possible use of these children. When you say that the Progress Party makes child protection “economic models”, it almost falls on its own unfairness. The fact that the Central Party does not listen to its local authorities is, of course, quite alarming. For the municipalities we are in contact with, we talk about the cooperation with the professional teams that are not good enough, especially the small municipalities. It was the intention that they should be a helper to the small municipalities, where maybe there was only one employee. They don't get through. There is too much meeting work in the teams, and there is simply no mention of it. And when the representative Eia shows that the County of Sogn and Fjordane say that there are no cooperation problems in the West, well then the County of Sogn and Fjordane have not been travelling around the municipalities neither in Hordaland nor in More and Romesdal. There we heard other stories. Even the Council of State says that cooperation between state child protection and municipal child protection can improve. I hope the representative of Eia's historyless view of what the view of the Progress Party on Child Protection is is not standing. And when the Council of State also takes on the fact that there are cooperation problems between state and municipal child protection, I expect that there will be some grip in the hope of improving cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e359	I do not dispute the commitment of the Advance Party to child protection. But what I pointed out was that the solution to the challenges is limited to becoming a question of economic models and designation. And that's where we disagree. We believe that the solution is to continue working with the framework that we now have, and to relax around the organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e364	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e382	The background of the interpellation I think we can all recognize ourselves in. From this summer until the last few weeks, there have been several serious incidents that the police themselves consider to be hate-related crime. These include: The killing of a Norwegian somalist at Heimdal, South-Trøndelag. We had the serious shooting at the Hvalstad asylum reception. We had – and I have to say, of course, the greatest impression when it happens in one's own community – a very ugly attack at a gas station here in Oslo, apparently totally unmotivated and with serious health consequences for a Kurd who was affected by this violence. And last: It was not exactly direct violence, but clear threats when an asylum-receipt – or a transit-receipt, as it will be – at Dønski in Bærum was assaulted with, among others. writings such as ‘Hold Norway clean!’, ‘The next shots will fall here’. There's a lot of ways to fight racism, and we all have our problems, in different arenas. As far as attitudes are concerned, there is something that affects us all. Then there is something that the authorities are specifically responsible for. And then, of course, it's the pure criminal law, with criminal prosecution where there have been concrete crimes. My commitment to this, of course, is linked to all three of those areas. But now the Minister of Justice is going to answer, and then of course there are some points related to what the Ministry is doing, which I want to challenge the Minister of Justice. First of all, it's how we register the kind of violence we're talking about here. Several organisations working against racism call for a better public record of racist-motivated violence, among others. training on how to register and what to look for, in order to improve overall recording. I am aware that it has begun to happen. I attend to the Minister of Justice's assessment of how this work has worked until now, and what can be done to improve it. Because that's the way to learn, you have to have something to learn from. Then a good registration is the first bid. Secondly, how to use the research method to improve the methods of working, to ensure that we get as little as possible from racist-motivated violence. Several anti-racist organisations have also made important contributions here. I want to draw attention to an area that might now be drawing to be the next area for the kind of racism-motivated actions we've seen, namely different online communities, etc. The police security service assesses this so that we have a clear trend here, how much more racism gets its spread in online societies, which in turn can lead to tragic actions. It's just here to remember what we've seen in the last few days in the United States, where two people who had just intended to do acts that were ultimately directed to one of the presidential candidates, but who had before intended to take care of a school where there were very many black children. It's a challenge to talk about this without going into regulation, because it's hard to imagine. How the police, as such, should intervene in this, I would assume – as the police security service also states – is a significant challenge. When it comes to actions that we can all be involved in, I also want to draw out something that is positive. SOS Racism, which works in the field, works in the communities to counteract what we see here, is in positive co-wind. Over 80 new local teams are now established across the country, so that there are now about 250 active local teams at the end of the year we are talking about here. It also means that several thousand young people under the age of 25 are members of such an organisation. In my interview I have also mentioned special groups within the police, and here we are also talking about experience. In Oslo, the 1980s and 1990s had their own groups. We had a pretty strong extreme environment in parts of Oslo City that were followed up by the police, both by direct intervention and with strong preventive efforts, in cooperation with non-governmental organisations and with the municipality. It led to the seventh and last time that the environment we are talking about here, dried up and disappeared. It shows that it is possible to insert the shock and get results. On the positive side, we have to be able to say that, in general, the element of right-wing extremities in this country is very moderate. In many ways, a policy that has prevented the emergence of what has been seen to be entirely different in other countries has been successful. It has also led to significantly fewer confrontations between different youth groups, for example, in this country than in many of us else we could compare with. But it also shows that a vigilance does not come about by itself; it must have a starting point in an active political will both centrally and locally. I meet the Minister of Justice's assessments and attitudes on how we can now prevent the ugly episodes we've seen from becoming the beginning of something much more and more systematically racist-motivated acts of violence in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e411	I'm going to go through some of the work done in this field in the justice sector in my response to the interpellant, but initially I want to stress that if we're going to succeed, this is the work, which the interpellant points to, depending on that all actors and a wide range of society are taking it on board. So I think it is commendable that such questions are interpolating in the Storting, and that one of the most important things that politicians can actually do is put this on the political agenda, which the interpellant does. That's what he's supposed to be for. I also say that because the government is very serious about racist-motivated violence, and emphasises that the work against this must be very high priority. As has also been shown during the summer with regard to the very serious incidents we have had, both I, several government members and also law enforcement and police have underlined the importance of getting caught up in these criminal acts. And I have to say that I am pleased with the efforts of the police in this area, especially with regard to the serious criminal cases we have seen – shots against asylum recipients and also some others – where the police have actually succeeded in the investigation. There has been a great deal of effort to get to the bottom of them, and the work has largely had everyone's support. Violence is an expression of gross violations of fundamental human rights, which is a public task to combat. Violence has many faces, and this summer's events, where several people have been subjected to violence and harassment based on skin color, have given us a strong reminder that as a society we are facing a very serious challenge. Violence that targets people based on who they are, or what they look like, does not only affect the individual victim. That's why it's so important to intervene, that's why prevention is so important, and that's why it's so important to get clarification. This is violence that creates fear and insecurity for everyone with the same background, and the question of whether it will be my next time, rises irrefutable. Hat crime undermines the fundamental principle of democratic society that all people are equal. That is why this crime must also be punished more severely. When violence increases against vulnerable groups, there is a fear, an atmosphere that causes the individual to be afraid to live out and share in the freedom that is so sailed for all of us in our part of the world. We're not going to have such a society, a society that's not going to be for everyone, and someone's going to be shut out. Paradoxically, young people are often affected, and there are often very vulnerable groups who may need much greater security and tranquillity around their own situation, especially those who live in shelters. However, let me stress that it would be wrong to concentrate the debate alone on how to take the perpetrator and how strictly to punish him. We have decided that the police are going into matters, but at the same time there is a great responsibility for all of us. Public authorities cannot combat this violence alone. Without an active involvement of all parts of society and a common agreement that violence as a form of expression is unacceptable, it is doubtful whether we can manage to reduce such violence. Racist-motivated violence is an extreme way in which discrimination is expressed. It's very visible. However, it is also important to focus attention on the racism and discrimination that do not have such a high physical impact and are more or less hidden. This kind of discrimination can give rise to the more extreme manifestations of racist violence. I am therefore afraid that the persistent negative focus that is often directed at immigrants and asylum seekers helps to increase hostile attitudes in the population. Lack of understanding of each other's views, attitudes and expressed values may give rise to fears and misconceptions. Measures to strengthen integration and interaction will therefore form an important part of the efforts to prevent violence and hatred between different groups of the population. We must therefore facilitate the establishment of meeting points for social and cultural exchanges, where it opens up to strengthen positive attitudes and perceptions about each other's lives and behaviour. But this does not mean that everyone who had to feel fear of what is foreign to them, or who had to have false, negative views of immigrants or asylum seekers, is potential perpetrators of violence. We need to distinguish between general anxiety, although it can often be unfounded, and the serious and extreme that racist-motivated violence is. But fear of alienation, misconceptions about each other and lack of interaction can contribute to the creation of a ground for, or help to legitimize, violence. It's this thing that's serious, and that's what's the challenge. So a little bit to the legal protection. Persons of other ethnic origin, race, colour of skin etc. are protected by criminal law against infringing by others through the provisions of the criminal law, b. §§ 135a and 349a. § 135a covers in brief matters related to discriminating statements about a person due to confession of belief, race, colour of skin, national or ethnic origin or sexual orientation. The Penal Code § 349a covers matters relating to the refusal of a person to goods, services or access to a public performance or show or other gathering in the light of his or her creed, race, colour of skin, national or ethnic origin or sexual orientation. In this context, I would like to point out that it has been adopted – but not yet entered into force – a new legal provision, new penal code § 77(i), which states that acts which have a background in the creed, colour of the skin, national or ethnic origin, etc. must be given greater emphasis in criminal investigations. So for the registration of hate crime. Police shall work with a targeted and knowledge-based approach to racist violence. It is therefore important, as the interpellant also mentions, to get an overview of the extent of such violence. Since the fall of 2006, the police have had a system for recording cases where the motive for the action is considered to be hate-related — marking of cases initiated by the Regeringen. This marking is carried out by activating an electronic procedure in the context of the procedure. Labelling is carried out independently of the statistical group and is activated by police personnel when, in the discretion of the case handler, there is reason to believe that the criminal is motivated by hatred. However, there are specific methodological challenges to this type of registration. On the one hand, these methodological questions refer to issues relating to the operationalisation of the concept and, on the other hand, to the fact that the presence of hate crime cannot be measured by simply counting infringements of each criminal offence. The latter is because, assuming to be measured, hate motivation only exceptionally constitutes a condition of criminality. The material must therefore be subjected to processing before the figures can indicate the presence and extent of hate crime. The Police Directorate has therefore launched an analysis project to provide a better overview of the registered hate crime. The project will also evaluate the registration scheme and consider any measures to improve it. The aim of the project is to ensure that the police record such crime in a satisfactory manner. We see that this registration can facilitate effective and targeted prevention and combating hate crime as well as ensure that victims of violence meet in a professional manner. In parallel with this analysis project, an audience survey is conducted in which individuals are specifically asked if they have been subjected to hate-motivated crime such as violence and threats. This is important in order to capture what we cannot record, not abilities to register, and what actually does not come to the ears and eyes of the authorities. The aim of this study is inter alia: to arrive at darkness rates in relation to police own statistics on the subject. As the police get more material measured over several years, and also develop better criteria for recording this, the police will be able to obtain a much safer source material. So a little – based on the length of time – until the interpellant talks about the Internet. The Advocate General decided in 2001 that the responsibility for the first phase of the investigation of racism on the Internet should be centralized into Kripos. However, regular investigations of these cases shall be carried out by the local police district under local prosecution. The police data centre at Kripos is monitoring the Internet in order to detect criminal activity online. As you know, an opportunity has also been put in place, among other things. for children to report on the Internet with a so-called red button, which is now active. Particular attention has been paid to some types of crime, and one of these is racism. Through the police Internet site, the audience can easily tip Kripos about events that are believed to contain racist motivated actions. The Internet pages of the police are still under review, and the new version will provide an improved and easier way to alert Kripos about possible racist-motivated conditions. Kripos cooperates in these matters with the Police Security Service, and if tips relate to a right-wing extreme environment, this will be captured by the PST that also has its own employees active online. The main task of the police is to prevent and combat crime. The police therefore follow criminal behaviour or other undesirable behaviour of groups and individuals in various ways. Additional groupings are given particular attention, but also more sporadic racist elements are attempted. Much of the methodology was established in the 1980s and 1990s for extremist groups, among others. where children and young people were involved, a work which is also carried on to a greater or lesser extent. The fight against hate crime is not just about law paragraphs and investigation. It's about values. It's all about people being equally valuable, regardless of their skin color or sexual orientation. And it's about putting this very fundamental democratic principle high. That is why we will continue to have a high priority on issues relating to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e458	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think I can say that I agree with a lot of what the Council of State said. I just want to ask for some clarification on some points. The Council of State spoke of recording the type of violence referred to here, including: of course, the methodological problems that may be encountered in the registration work to be carried out. Very well-known Sweden has come a little further than Norway in this area, where there is also a shock in relation to the training of those who are actually going to carry out this registration, namely the individual police officer or woman. I'd like to hear a little bit about it from the Council of State. With regard to the Internet and cooperation with Kripos-PST and the opportunities now provided to facilitate the reporting of cases to relevant authorities, I think it is very positive. What can well be a bigger challenge is to infiltrate what can provide the basis for active criminal acts, which we may have seen more of in other countries than in our own. I guess it's just a leading commodity attitude that we also have to incorporate. What I didn't hear about was how the Council of State assesses the research side of this. Having an empirical basis for the actions to be taken politically does not, of course, damage. Many have called for more empathy, more research-based material as a basis for the choices to be made by the police. With these additional challenges, I thank you again for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e471	When it comes to the question of registration, I was in my post about the problems that arise. However, I am quite optimistic about the registration system now in place from 2006, and I am convinced that we will benefit significantly from it. However, the methodological problems are reported with strength before the criminal offence has occurred and until it sits and zones, because, among other things, it has been committed. depends on the motive in the action itself being clearly displayed before it can be registered. It's about something more than that we just train policemen to just see such things. The background for us choosing to start this registration work was in particular the anger, harassment and violence that homosexuals are exposed to, but at the same time we chose to bet on several horses in that work, primarily because we saw that much of this violence did not appear to be hate-related, but in reality it was. That was the background for the Ministry of Justice, among others. decided to grant funds to the homophilic organisations so that research could be started against that group. I don't fully understand all the research that is going on in relation to racist-motivated acts and discrimination in society, but there's a lot going on. I want to say something about the work done in relation to the police as such. As far as I am concerned, the Police and National Staff Committee is working well to improve their skills on these issues, particularly in the context of the work on diversity, where the Police Directorate presented its plan in September 2008. This is an overall diversity plan that the police will work for, and among others. This means raising the level of competence, so that these issues need to be addressed more closely at the Police College. However, it also needs to be considered in relation to continuing training, so that registration can be made, but not least to be able to take care of the victims of this crime. In this concept of diversity, many activities are undertaken. It's a pleasure that over the last few years we've actually seen an increase in the number of minority backgrounds applying for the high school. It's also very important to give them poor access to the police. We had 134 applicants with a minority background this year, and that meant that 29 people with an ethnic minority background – as far as I know – were accommodated at school, which is a significant step forward in relation to the situation we had the year before, where it was less than 10 that was recorded. There are many kinds of strategies we need in order to meet this and make it easier both to register and not least to treat them properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e484	First, I would like to commend the representative Hans Olav Syversen for addressing this important topic in an interpellant debate. It's about values and about everyone being equally valuable, and about everyone being allowed to participate in the freedom of our society is based on, without being afraid of being exposed to anything because you're different. As both the representative Syversen and the Minister of Justice were involved, in the summer we have seen several examples of violence and harassment based on skin color. The shooting incident at the reception where a minor asylum seeker was severely injured shows the severity of this. We also know that another vulnerable group, namely the homosexuals, is also more exposed to violence and hateful expressions than others. Homophil men experience being subjected to violence three times as often as other men. Hat crime is characterised by the fact that a criminal offence is not motivated by any situational, but, on the other hand, attacks the human right to be treated equally, regardless of belief, appearance, origin or sexual preferences. Violence creates fear and not least limitations in the unfolding of life, not only of the one who is affected, but of all those who belong to the same group. This is why the Government, as the Minister had it, has put in place several measures to combat hate crime. It has not been long since the Stortinget, following a proposal from the Government, adopted the interim position I on new criminal law. There was also an increase in the penalties imposed by the Stortinge for hate crime. All parties, apart from the Progress Party, wanted to legislate as a criminally sharp circumstance that a criminal offence is motivated by prejudice and hatred. The police have also been told to give priority to the investigation of hate crime, and are now working to improve the monitoring tool for the recording of violence, so that we get as precise records as possible. Furthermore, a red button has been established on the Internet for the simple reporting of racist statements, and the Human Rights Alliance and the National Association for Lesbian and Homophilic Liberation have received funding for the project for the monitoring of violence. Furthermore, I would like to refer to the strengthening of the Council of Conflict in this year's budget as an important precautionary measure. Among other things, the conflict councils can play an important role in school mediation. Children and young people shall be made aware of their own attitudes and be involved in a mobilization against bullying and harassment which is also important to prevent racism. This is one of the stated goals of school mediation. Experience shows that this enables students to manage conflicts in a good way, and it creates good attitudes towards racism and exclusion. As the minister also pointed out, recruiting people with ethnic minority backgrounds to the Police College is important to reduce prejudices, and not least to increase the knowledge of vulnerable groups. History is full of the most serious hate crime cases and the serious and harmful consequences they can have. The Jewish persecution, Ku Klux Klan's activity or ethnic cleansing – whether in Bosnia or Rwanda – are examples of genocide and war crimes that were originally motivated by hatred. Therefore, society as a whole must help to break down prejudices based on religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation and function. Here, all parts of society have a responsibility, it's the school, the sports, the Church, public institutions, agencies and private businesses – and not least each of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e501	Like the previous speeches, I'll give tribute to the interpellant to address this important interpellant today. There should have been several committees present in such an important debate, for this issue it is not just the Justice Committee that is involved. I know that this also affects many other committees, so it is almost a shame that no more are present in the Chamber today. First of all, I want to say that all violence against other people, whatever their motive, is unacceptable. It has to be turned on. That's something that we shouldn't accept. The interpellant pointed to several events, including: it in the summer that caused fear both at the reception and among those living around. This applies to people with different fates who flee and think they come to a safe country, and then they experience such fear as they did this summer. The interpellant also pointed to more episodes that were dangerous. This is scary, and that's something we all have to be concerned about. It creates fear, but not least it prevents an integration that we depend on if we're going to succeed in this work. When there are groups that attack each other in this way, we are facing challenges that we may not be so prepared for. We don't have enough knowledge about this. There are ethnic and religious differences. We see that immigrants themselves discriminate against each other. It's not just the Nordics who are doing violence against immigrants, it's also immigrants who are discriminating against each other. It's incomprehensible that we get such reactions. So the question is, what are we going to do with this? There have been some things that have been taken up, but first of all, I think it's about getting a good integration in place. Integration begins, as many have been involved, both in kindergartens and in schools. If we're going to have a multicultural society, we're going to have to meet those challenges. We need to get a proper integration in place. Then it's important that it starts working. But not least, as there are acts of violence, it is important that the police get enough resources and sufficient knowledge of this challenge, so that they can respond and show that we do not tolerate this. Several have been involved in training the police. I refer you to Sweden and England. Maybe you're not good enough at just this in Norway. That is why, as the Minister of Justice also said, it is important to continue training the police. It is also important to train those who start at the Police College. We're sitting here at Stortinget and giving the police more and more tasks. We're not going to start a budget debate here today, but it's very often a lack of resources that makes the police unable to deal with this problem. That's why I think we all have to stick together to get the police more resources. This must be an important task for the police, which must not be outsourced because they have other more important tasks. One of the most important things in this debate concerns resources for the police. But we also have to put integration in place, as I said earlier. We must also look at stricter penalties. The representative, Bjørnflaten, was concerned that the Progress Party had voted against this. No one should doubt that the Progress Party wants more severe punishments and that violence, especially hatred, will be brought to an end. But there is no reason why we should put hatred on other types of violence. All the violence that is committed against men shall be severely reduced, and there shall be severe punishments for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e518	First, I should like to commend my colleague Hans Olav Syversen for putting an important social theme on the Storting agenda. In a country where more and more languages, skin colors, cultures, and religions are growing, it is important that awareness of how we treat each other is raised and maintained. Racism is a disease that exists in all countries, groups and nations. The leader of the Anti-racist Center, Kari Helene Partapuoli, has said that racism exists in all of us. I tend to agree with her. I think there are two things that are important in combating racism. The first is that we all have to work with ourselves and tame the racist in us. The second is to keep a constant focus on the fact that power is not allowed to act racistally, because that is the combination of power and the inherent racist in us all that is the real problem. Then it's not just generals with cannons that can become dangerous, like in Nazi Germany, in former Yugoslavia or in Rwanda, or young people who are lured into violent environments with short-thinked rage theory, and who later use violence. A political billboard to check the identity papers of a driver, a restaurant owner to hire a cook, an ambulance driver to pick up a patient from a park, a teacher in his classroom, a social curator to determine social welfare benefits, are all equally dangerous if they are not conscious of their role, their responsibilities and their power. It is therefore important that we constantly keep the theme up, shape the right attitudes, create conditions for a harmonious society and create good legal frameworks to combat racism. It is important that we do not play with words and emotions and lefles with forces that can be very dangerous to our multicultural society. Such an example is the Action Programme of the Advance Party. In the programme for 2002-2005, the Progress Party states the following: ‘The party will: that Norway will receive a maximum of 1000 people each year from outside the Western cultural circle in total.’;» This is a formulation that divides the world into us and them. Those with non-Western cultural circles don't fit in with us, we represent a culture that is better than theirs. This is a highly problematic concept use and sharing of the world and cultures. What kind of message is this to 5 billion people in the world outside Europe and North America? How are we going to build a world with less scepticism and conflict on the globe using this kind of formulation? I am pleased that the Progress Party has closed this section away from its new action programme. We should all distance ourselves from attitudes, actions and formulations that can promote prejudices. Another example of doing things in a crazy way is this: Last week, a mentally unstable man stacked several people with a knife. The media found it right to tell the listeners what kind of ethnic background the perpetrator had. I ask, what was the relevance of his ethnic background in this context? To make the point clearer: Had the media advertised the identity of the perpetrator if he was born in Bergen or in Tromsø? The answer is obvious! I commend the measures taken by the Minister of Justice to combat racism, discrimination and scepticism, both in the offices under the mandate of the Minister of Justice and not least in all other departments. When Ali Farah was hit in the Sofienberg Park, I asked the then Minister for Labour and Inclusion to conduct an investigation into whether there is skepticism, discrimination or racism in our own state apparatus. There was a thorough investigation, and I was surprised, and many were disappointed, that our establishments are not aware that discrimination can occur in our state apparatus. I'm glad that the Government has taken this step, and I'm glad that the Government has launched a lot of measures that make our state apparatus more harmonious and take the new multicultural society seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e536	The theme that is the subject of this interpellation debate is very serious, and I think it is a theme that most parties – not to say all parties – in this Chamber agree that it is important to raise and do something about. That is why I react a little when the representative Chaudhry tries to involve party politics in this context and presents the programme of the Progress Party in a wrong way and makes this debate a little unworthy of the importance of the topic we are discussing here. It must be allowed to have some objectives for Norwegian policies in terms of integrating the immigrants who come to this country, because there is therefore a link between the number of immigrants coming to Norway each year and the number that we are able to integrate. There is a restriction here, and the Progress Party has a clear position. We are committed to integrating the people who have already come to Norway, before we take on ever new tasks and get a greater and greater follow-up to the achievement of successful integration for the people who are already here. I find it totally inappropriate to draw this comparison with the Progress Party programme, which is a clear and realistic approach to a problem which, unfortunately, has not been taken seriously for too long in this Chamber. The Progress Party is in many ways the only party that has a realistic approach to Norwegian integration policy, Norwegian immigration policy, with clear objectives in terms of immigration and integration Nor should it be the fear of discussing these issues that almost declares parts of the political debate as something that we should not do. There are major challenges in the integration field in Norway. And it must really be allowed to discuss openly and freely in an open and free society without having to use it against itself, without trying to prevent a debate for reasons of political correctness. My theory is that the most dangerous thing we can do is not to discuss issues of Norwegian integration policy, not to raise challenges we're facing, of fear of stigmatizing, of fear that some people might get the wrong ideas. It should be an open, honest and honest debate. Then one must also accept that the uncomfortable, problem-filled and uncomfortable facts are brought forward and discussed in transparency. If not, we're going in the wrong direction. Then we go away from openness, from democratic principles, and we suppress a debate. I hope it's not in the direction we're going. In a free and open democracy, we must be allowed to discuss issues. We have to take that debate, not just in the interests of society in general, but also in the interests of immigrants who are to be integrated into Norwegian society. I will never accept that someone is trying to silence this criticism for reasons of being politically correct. The Progress Party will take the debate, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e547	At least it was not my intention to make this a debate on the programme work in the Progress Party, neither current nor future programmes. But in the spirit of Amundsen's representative, I guess I'll say that some party programs, whether they're from the Christian People's Party or from the Advance Party, will probably be able to take a little break even in this room, without the program having to get any worse for that reason – perhaps on the contrary. Thank you for the debate. There's a lot of consensus around – what to say – the principle of how we're going to meet the examples we've seen of racist-motivated violence. This is something that affects society as a whole. It's not a one-sided issue of politics, it's not a one-sided issue of integration, but it's the sum of the measures, the attitudes that we all represent, that give to the society we operate, and the growth that we also see every now and then. To Anne Marit Bjørnfacen, who also pointed to the criminal austerity we decided: I fully agree that it underpins a view of values in society. In my opinion, it is actually that law continues to set norms, and so it is also important what the legislator says in that way. I fully agree with that. Then she also showed the work the conflict councils do. I have no problem joining them either. I could also add to the anti- bullying work that is run in Norwegian school over time. There I have to say that the efforts of the current government could perhaps be a little stronger also in relation to how to deal with it politically by sharpening the message, which I believe the previous government made much stronger. Solved Horne was about the resource situation in the police. We don't get along with that either, but I thought in this very debate I should leave it. Something tells me that we will come back to it on given occasions later. That it's also part of what will determine whether we succeed or not, that's clear. Then we can look at how the municipalities reacted to the attacks on the two receptions. In the first case, the municipality said that the reception might be the problem. In the second case, there was a hard reaction from the municipality's management to the action in question. It also says something about the significance of what we all do in given situations. Finally, I want to say that we all agree that everyone is equally worth it. It's a great value in Norwegian society. The challenge is to get as many people as possible to feel that they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e563	This was a good debate, and I wish we could take it back in Stortinget, because we need to check to what extent the instruments work and how far we get. And if there's a field where the government should be tested, it's just this type of field. It is often the case in politics that we measure by quite different sizes: according to how many policemen we have, how much money we give, and what it should be. But this work we have to measure a little bit differently, look at and consider a little bit differently. I must say that I listened carefully when I heard the representative Amundsen talking. He started his speech by saying that this is such an important challenge that in many ways we should not let party politics go into it, and he almost suggests to the representative Chaudhry that it was not good. He concludes with what is also my position, namely that this debate just deserves us to produce differences in both party programmes and personal positions. That's what helps us take a step forward, and, to my knowledge, sometimes also take a step backwards. The representative Amundsen concluded by saying that the inconvenient facts have to be seen and found out. I fully agree, it is very important, but then one must also resist being contradicted where there is political disagreement. I think part of the reason that sometimes it's gotten a little relaxed in how we deal with this type of serious crime is that we think it's the eternal consensus that needs to come up with these solutions, and that we really don't have the courage to take the debate. I believe that we must dry up to take this debate. An inconvenient fact for the Progress Party must, of course, be – when one still, and also in this debate, says that one will have stricter penalties – that one has actually voted against stricter penalties in relation to this. There I fully agree with the interpellant: this is a value question, a normative question. Are we going to punish this type of abuse more severely than we do with other types of violence? All parties, except the Advance Party, have chosen to answer yes to that question. That is a fact, and I think it is an inconvenient fact for the Advancement Party. We're going to have to dry it up. Moreover, I believe that an important challenge for us now is to build confidence in particular minority environments. From the Ministry of Justice, we have established a dialogue forum with immigrant organisations – we meet them frequently, we met representatives last week – where we, among other things, met. discusses how relations between the police and our new countrymen actually go, what to react to and how to build trust. We thus receive reports, so that those who are subjected to this type of crime know that they are taken seriously and not discriminated against by those who are to enforce the law. It is also important in the police districts. There is now a two-year project entitled «Security and trust». In four police districts, it is precisely to look at how to create better meeting places with those affected by such serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e574	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e590	As representatives, we receive many enquiries from individuals about the issues they are concerned with. It is an important part of our job to be responsive to the challenges that individuals face. Many address the impact of existing legislation in different areas in their case, and many – for most justified reasons, I think – propose changes. In this way, we can see how the different laws work out and improve them. A group of people from whom I have been contacted are women who have this in common: for many years they chose, more or less voluntarily, to take responsibility at home for their own children. At the same time, the man worked outside the home and made money for himself and his family. The reason for this division of labour was that there was a need to have a homeworker, and since the man had the highest income, he continued his career. But one consequence of this was natural enough that it was the man who earned wages and pension rights. As long as the spouses stayed together, there was no big problem. In any case, the income was used for the benefit of the whole family. But unfortunately, in the older generation too, marriage is raging. There are women who experience having a minimum pension today because the husband took with him all his pension rights when life was broken. It is bitter when women's unpaid care effort was essential both for the functioning of the home and for the man to sacrifice himself completely for his own professional career. This underlines the importance of facilitating equal sharing of care responsibilities, of facilitating the combination of care and professional careers for both women and men, and of active policies for high occupational participation by both sexes. I fully agree with that. But we still need to have a fundamental respect for the choice of care by individuals and individual families. And even more important in this case: it doesn't solve any of the injustice that several women actually experience, and we have to take the real situation seriously. Active equality policies in the labour market cannot be an excuse for passiveness in relation to gender equality in pension policies. Actually, it should be a matter of course that someone took into account pension plans when changing in a divorce situation. Other property items acquired during marriage are split, but not pension entitlements. During the previous ageing period, the then government worked on this problem. It promised that it would look into how a person could make practical changes to the marriage law, so that pension rights were also taken into account in the event of divorce. A broad majority felt that this was important, and supported the desire for further work on this. The same majority saw that it was not appropriate or practicable to submit proposals on the sharing of pension benefits in the social security system. Paragraph 61(b) of the Marriage Act states, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘If the withdrawal of a spouse results in the unfair treatment of the other spouse, he or she may be awarded an amount in order to prevent this.’ This is practiced to a small extent. One can still claim that one of the parties is being unfairly mistreated, ten years after this law was passed. Today's government has been very concerned with the marriage law, but unfortunately, in my opinion, of the wrong issue. All the cancers have been committed to changing the actual understanding of what a marriage is. How it goes about the work of getting a fairer system for the sharing of pension rights, I am more uncertain about. There is an increasing impatience among women who call for justice in pension matters after a break in life. What is actually being done? Can we expect some political initiative from the Government? Originally, this interpellation was addressed to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. I wanted to challenge her as a politically responsible State Council for gender equality to put this matter high on the agenda. Now, women who choose unrequited care responsibility over a long period of time are not the group on which the government spends the most time and effort. There may be a group that has been selected incorrectly, in the view of the Government. I hope, however, that the Government also sees today's practice of how pension rights are taken into account, or rather not taken into account when changing joint ownership, have a poor female profile. And then the obvious question is, what can be done with that? That is why I am really glad that it is the Minister of Justice who answers the interpellation. After all, it's his department that's at least worked on this before. When the Christian People's Party sat in government, we know that it was working on this matter. We are not as sure about what is being done, and what resources the current political leadership in the ministry has allocated to the matter today. That's the background for the interpolation. I hope that the Council of State has a positive answer. Then he's to be commended by the undersigned representative. But first I want to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e619	I thank you for the interpellation. I don't know if I can get up in terms of getting praise, because this is a complicated question with many arguments for and against. But the very basic attitude and consideration for those who, among other things, Do unusually important care work at home, I fully understand. The government is therefore concerned that women or men who have taken care of their home should not stand on the ground in the event of a divorce. Reasons for fairness suggest that the value of a home-worker's spouse's efforts should also be included when the spouse's wealth is to be shared. That's also why the general rule is that a woman or a man who takes care of his home becomes a partner in the values created by the other spouse during marriage when the care work has enabled the other spouse to create these values. It is this rule that goes under the name «husmorsameie» and that is currently statutory under the third paragraph of Section 31 of the Marriage Act. However, pension rights are initially excluded from sharing when they are replaced by joint ownership, for which there are several reasons. Pension entitlements are different from other types of economic assets to be shared by spouses on the change, in that they relate to values held by the rightholder only once in the future and under the conditions resulting from the pension scheme. In other words, they first come to the rightholder’s hand when – and if – he or she reaches retirement age. If the value of a pension entitlement is to be shared with the other spouse, it is thus a transfer to the second spouse of values that the pensionable spouse does not yet have on his or her hand, but may be paid once in the future. Therefore, a requirement to transfer a portion of the value of the shift may give rise to a liquidity problem for the rightholder. In this context, it must be borne in mind that the pension entitlement may be the largest or one of the largest values of a joint owner. It has not been granted that the spouse is able to raise sufficient capital or to finance the necessary funds. It can therefore be argued that a rule on the sharing of pension rights limits access to a divorce for those who do not have the money to pay out the second spouse for the value of the pension entitlement. In my view, there are considerable fundamental concerns about the introduction of a system whereby a spouse who wants to make a difference may arise in a situation in which he is not in fact able to carry out the settlement of the change in accordance with the provisions of the law. A solution could be that the sharing of pension entitlements was suspended until the pension actually came into payment. However, I do not think this is a good solution. The spouses will need to be ‘completed’ with each other in the event of a divorce. It could be burdensome to have to resume contact after many years, perhaps 20–30 years, in order to share pension entitlements. The spouses may also be remarried at that time. In addition, current technical problems arise in relation to the calculation of the present value of pension entitlements. In the pension notification, the Bondevik II government refused to introduce a division of the pension for couples, i.e. a division that takes place within the pension scheme, regardless of whether the couple is divorced or still living together. Instead, further work was to be done to find practical rules for the sharing of pensions in the marriage law, as the interpellant also had to do. You probably didn't get on with that work under that government either. Let me say here that it is not necessarily easier to divide pensions between couples on a private basis – often before they become pensioners – than to get into a practical sharing system within the pension system. These include: a challenge to have different types of pension schemes. I refer here to the differences between defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. It poses significant challenges to share the value of a defined benefit pension, because there is uncertainty about the nature of the pension entitlement at the time of the change. For example, the pension of a civil servant could be 66 pst. of the final salary when he has earned full pension entitlements. When changing joint ownership before retirement, it is uncertain whether he will continue to be a member of the State Pension Fund. You can't know if he will be credited with full vesting time. Furthermore, at the time of the change, you do not want to know what becomes the final salary of the official. Because the pension size is related to these two unknown factors, sharing the value of this unknown factor by a shift is a major problem. It may be somewhat easier to calculate the present value of the contribution to a defined contribution pension scheme. But don't sail for defined contribution pensions. Often, the deposits will be linked to tax benefits, as we do, among other things. know it from previous individual pension schemes under the Tax Act, IPA, and the new individual pension scheme, IPO. If these deposits are realised before the retirement age, this could result in the repayment of the previous tax deductions. This could seem very unreasonable. Other deposits may be linked to conditions that result in a significant decrease in value if they are realised before retirement. As you can see, this isn't quite easy. The problems I have mentioned here are the background to the fact that Section 61(b) of the Marriage Act – this is important for me and also for the legitimate – says that pension rights can be excluded from sharing the joint ownership. If this leads to the second spouse being unfairly mistreated, he or she may instead be awarded compensation. When assessing whether compensation should be granted, it shall, inter alia: emphasis is placed on whether marriage has been long-term. The purpose of this rule is to ensure, in particular, a home-worked spouse who, after a long marriage, has not acquired a significant pension right. Otherwise, I mention that we also have other rules that will help to provide better pensions for those who spend time on care work at home: § 3–16 of the Swedish Social Security Act means that they now receive pension funds for care work at home. One problem here is that older women will not be covered by this rule, which currently applies to the generation of income year 1992. In time, however, this provision will become more practical. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has proposed, in a consultation note on a new age pension, that care points for care work should also be earned a little longer in time. I believe that this is a right way to solve some of the challenges that the interpellant points to, which the government is also in the process of. I have found it difficult, based on the counter-respects I have explained, to see that it is possible to find practical rules in the marriage law that mean that pension rights are to be shared by divorce. These objections cannot be regulated away from the law, and in my view, it is then a better solution to continue the current system under the marriage law of the right to compensation for the unfair person, rather than a rule that pension rights should always be shared.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e647	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I listened intensely to try to find a positive approach. I have to say that I'm a little in doubt about it, and it was very focused on what's difficult, that it's hard to regulate away from this division, and that it's very challenging. I understand some of those difficulties, for example. that one has to wait until the spouse is retired and that many want to ‘end up’ with the relationship, as the Council of State said, and that there are technical problems. But at the same time I'm a little insecure, so I want to ask again: is it that the case is now iced up? I find that a little strange, because it was a majority position that at least the Labour Party was part of, which said that you should continue working on the matter and find a concrete solution to it. I would like to know if the matter is being further worked on, and what time aspect it has. One must remember that the Pension Commission also said that they would continue to work on this matter. What I saw as positive was that the Council of State had an understanding of the problems of those women who have come into such a difficult situation. We may have different views about the housework, but the fact is that it has begun to be strengthened through care points. It is also strengthened in the right to compensation and in the settlement of the change. We are pleased in the Christian People's Party, and we support it. But practice does show that the intentions of the law, although good, are not being followed up. Then it's probably our job to do something about it, and I hope the Minister of Justice will follow it up. We agree with the Minister of Justice – and we have also said that in the past – that it should not be part of popularism, but that follow-up work should be part of the marriage law. From a gender perspective, I think it must be the best solution, because then private pension schemes must also be included, and it will often be better than just having what's in the mainstream. The council said it was hard. My impression is that the Council of State is an unreasonable person who likes to take the challenges, and I hope that he will now do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e658	There is no specific legal work related to the marriage law in relation to the wishes of the interpellant. But at the same time, I find it difficult to say that this is totally frozen, because it is a debate in connection with our pension system. I referred to the consultation note sent by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, which included: many of the needs we see women and men in care at home are actually being affected. That is why I also have difficulty closing the door completely when it comes to thinking in the direction that the interpellant is doing. So that gets to be my answer as to what you do, and what kind of tracks you think about, because I think the interpellant and the undersigned see part of the challenges that are. But because the interpellant in its interpellation claimed that the compensation rules in the marriage law have little or no meaning in practice, I have a need to point out that I think we have a significant need to refer to those provisions, and also to show that we now have case law where the provision is used, so that one actually has an opportunity already in the law that exists. I refer cards to two court decisions. The Court ruled on 28 October 2005. After 37 years of marriage, the man was discredited for a cabin and a bank deposit that was considered to originate from inheritance and gifts. The wife, who had taken a higher education at the end of the marriage, but who had to expect to become a minimum pensioner, was compensated for the husband's withdrawal of pension entitlements of NOK 300000. We also see some of the same results from Eidsivating Lawyers' Law on 8 December 2003. It was a 30 - year - old marriage where the wife had not had a paid job but had been working at home. The wife was awarded half of the current payments as compensation under Section 61 of the Marriage Act and a pension insurance. This shows that, when the Court is brought before it, it is not a total rejection. So we're not right about this very important problem. It is also important to point out that many of the problems we see in cases are of a legal and real nature, such as not being able to calculate them, etc. But in those cases where you have a long marriage behind you, and where you have had significant care tasks, and pension rights are more prominent, there is therefore the possibility of using this rule in the marriage law, and it is important to bring it into the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e667	There is no doubt that many women become economic losers in the event of a breakup. For older women in particular, this must be seen to be extremely unfair. They married and established a family at a time when it was expected that Mother would take responsibility for the child and home, while Father would be the main caretaker. In addition, it was difficult for many women to get a job, and this generation of women was seen as flexible labour that went out and out of the labour market after the economic fluctuations. For the Workers' Party, it is important that women, and also men, who have taken on care tasks, should not stand on the ground at any divorce. This shall be taken into account when dividing the stay after a divorce. However, pension rights are excluded and the State Council has considered in detail the difficulty of finding practical rules in the marriage law that require the sharing of pension rights in the event of a divorce. Some of these wrongful women are now exposed by providing pension funds for domestic care, but the problem is that older women will be less covered by this rule, which applies from the 1992 income year. Older women come out very unluckily, but younger women also end up in the same situation – despite the fact that our mother generation has burdened their daughters that they should not go into the same pension trap but make sure that they are economically independent. The point is that the amount of pension payments is largely about equality and reflects how far we have reached full equality. Today's generation of young women has a far better starting point than their mothers. It is socially accepted that women are outworking with young children — there are kindergartens, working hours are regulated, women are well educated, and there is a high demand for labour. Yet, many end up in the same situation as their mothers. Women are very capable of running the family on an ongoing basis, but do not secure themselves financially. While men work overtime, women work part-time. Women take long parental leave, men take short. Sickly, though, if the pension system has improved, and if many women choose to work in the home for a period of time, women get far worse at divorce. Sick women feel responsible for taking care of their children, require modern marriage legislation that they also make smart economic choices to avoid standing back behind a break. The law regards women and men as maritime economic individuals, and that is basically a good starting point. In order to be economically equal, women and men have to work about the same amount, take care of children and homes about the same amount and pay down about the same amount on housing debts and other fixed expenses. In an average marriage that takes place when the woman is 30 years old, the man is 33 years old and they're on average married for ten years, the man gets 66 pst. by the Joint Undertaking in the event of a divorce. What's the reason for that? Well, men earn more and own more. Spouses tend to make decisions based on the best interests of the family, such as: that mother works part-time or is at home. In such cases, it is also possible, within the current legislation, to secure the woman financially. This could be done, for example, by: by taking out pension insurance or by concluding a marriage contract that certain property items must be the special property of the woman. But from a gender perspective, I would rather have encouraged women to send their men home to the children and seagoing go out and make money. For today's young women, the way to share parental leave will have a lot to say for women's economy. If women choose to spend a long time at home with their children, her relationship with the workplace is weakened, and her pay and career opportunities are getting worse. This is usually done in combination with a man's career and pay shooting speed. It is only by equal sharing of care and participation in professional life that women can avoid men evading the main part of a divorce. It is impossible, and not right, by law to regulate us away from the choices that each of us makes. Women must make conscious choices. Sense if it seems disturbing to draw agreements and make demands in marriage and togetherness, it's even worse to experience economic ruin because you neglected your own economy while living together. Men protect their own economy in society. Women also have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e695	This is an interpellation that is about many distortions, according to the summary of the Council of State. He had a thorough review of the matter. It's not just that women get worse when they break up — even when they die, they get worse when it comes to retirement, because we men die a lot earlier. A lot of this would be different if we had introduced something the Progress Party has proposed repeatedly, namely a spouse-shared tax. It is clear that the state would then receive less top tax. If one income were divided into both, the country would suffer a little bit financially, but in return, both parties would earn pension points. The interpellant has pointed out that the woman is the weak party in this case in the event of a breakup. In the case of married married tax, the woman would have had pension credits to go to, and the man would have had similarly less. This has been proposed several times by the Progress Party, but we have not yet heard about it. In its good report, the Council of State was not at all involved in a spouse-shared tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e702	The representative Woie Duesund, in his interview, addresses an important gender equality theme: the value of care activities at home. Today, it is still the case that women in most couples are responsible for the care tasks. This is an important explanation of the pay gap between women and men. SV want equality in domestic care and gender equality in the labour market. The gender pay gap leads mainly to women choosing part-time and opting out of the labour market. Therefore, the main task must be to work for equal pay and equality in employment. The requirement for increased gender equality is linked to the possibility of economic autonomy and the right to education — and not least to work. The prerequisite for the exercise of these rights is the establishment of satisfactory arrangements for the supervision of children. Childcare facilities for all are therefore still one of the most important requirements of the gender equality struggle. SV has always been concerned with gender equality, and we believe it is an important gender equality issue to encourage women to be active. Therefore, we also believe that women should have a higher level of service by being active than if they were not at work. However, it is important to find schemes that prevent women from being particularly hard hit at the end of marriage. As the Minister of Justice pointed out in his statement, we now have some provisions that allow the value of the efforts of the home spouse to be taken into account in the calculation of the sharing of the joint ownership. This is the so-called "housewife" provision in the third paragraph of Section 31 of the Marriage Act, which says: ‘In assessing who has acquired assets that have earned the common personal use of the spouses, such as a common dwelling and normal residence, emphasis shall be placed on the work of a spouse at home.’;» In addition, we have Sections 3 to 16 of the National Social Security Act, which states that pension funds are provided for work at home. I agree with the Minister of Justice's conclusion regarding the assessment of a provision that says that pension rights should be shared. Pension entitlements differ from other values to be shared by the fact that there are values that are first paid when he is a retired person. If this right is to be shared at the end of marriage and before the right is granted, it may create financial problems for the spouse who is entitled to a pension once in the future. It will also be difficult for many people to wait until the pension is paid out – it may be many years since the marriage ended, and the former spouses may also be married again. The interpellant says that the provision of Section 61(b) of the Marriage Act to provide compensation has little or no practical significance. It is difficult for me to assess what the interpellant is based on. There are several examples in the case-law of the use of this provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e726	I would like to thank you for your good and constructive contributions. Everyone has been concerned about how this group can get better out of a divorce. I've always talked about good adult women, but of course it can also be about men and different types of couples. I noticed that the Council of State in its second response was more positive than in its first response, that the matter was not put on ice, and that the door is not closed. I am pleased, and my hope is that that door will not be closed again – not for the sake of the Christian People's Party, but for all those involved. The Minister of Justice also referred to good case law, which should perhaps have been better known, as I have received a lot of feedback that this does not happen. I see several challenges that need to be addressed further. That's why it's so important to keep up the work that's going on. I see that there may be practical difficulties in postponing the sharing of the values of pension rights, and that there will also be technical problems, because most people want to end up with each other, including financially, after a divorce. The Christian People's Party is open that the arrangement may be limited by the marriage law to long-term marriages only. The most important thing for us is to take into account at least the values represented by pension entitlements in the context of the change of joint ownership. The representative, Gjul, wanted to send the men home and get the women to work. I very much agree with that, but it does not help in the situation that women are today. It's probably more of a wish for the future, which I fully share. But those who are struggling today to get their daily lives to jump financially after a divorce are having a hard time. I have also noticed that the Progress Party wants a voluntary spouse-shared pension service that can be resolved through the self-declaration process, and that spouses can choose how much of their joint income is going to go to each and give each individual pensioner income. The Christian People's Party has not been in favour of it – firstly, it is voluntary, and we believe that it is not very accurate, because it will only be about popularism and not all private and individual arrangements. They want to stay outside. Again, I thank you for the debate, and I hope that the door is still open.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e745	So the debate is on case No. End 4
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e751	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e775	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Olemic Thommessen on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 2 and 3, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Party of Advancement Proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asked the Government to investigate the possibility of the money following the child in public care.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the winding-up of the counties and to transfer the matters relating to the taking-over of care to the ordinary judiciary.’ The voting boards showed that 77 votes were cast against and 24 votes in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 14.22.51]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e803	I voted wrong. I voted in favour of the proposals, but I should have voted against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e808	The result will be 78 votes against and 23 votes in favour. Proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Left, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to restore and extend the pilot scheme with local responsibility for the child protection service and to facilitate the possibility for all municipalities, either on an independent basis or through inter-municipal cooperation, to apply for participation in such an experiment.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision. The Committee had set up: Document No 8:91 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e832	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-03.ana.ud1540e911	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
