ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e51	The representative Olav Gunnar Ballo, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representatives of Kåre Fostervold and Ågot Valle on leave from 22 April to 24 April - both to attend the 12th session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, UNCTAD, of Accra, Ghana from the Workers' Party Group on the Preservation Allowance for Representatives of Bendiks H. Arnesen from 22 April to 28 April from the Workers' Group on the Care Allowance for Representatives of Terje Aasland from 22 April to 24 April On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Hordaland: Audun Bjørlo LysbakkenFor the state of Telemark: Lise Wiik and Magnhild HolmbergFor the county of Troms: Knut Werner HansenLise Wiik is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e110	Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, Lise Wiik, Magnhild Holmberg and Knut Werner Hansen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e116	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen are unanimously elected as presidents of Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e135	A main purpose of this statement on EU and EEA matters is to reflect on key developments in Europe affecting Norway. The task is to raise some of the major issues on the agenda in Norway’s relationship with the EU and to give a more detailed description of relevant EEA issues of particular importance to Norway. The relationship between Norway and the EU is close and good. The visit by the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, at the end of February underlined this. Norway shares ambitions with the EU in a number of key areas, such as climate issues, which I come back to. It is a broad range of our relationship with the European Union that often does not emerge. I think that our European debate will be better and more nuanced about this width. It is my hope that these presentations can make a contribution to this. We have a structural overview of the parts of our relationship with the EU that are regulated by the EEA Agreement. And there's a lot of them. But what we also need to note and deal with is how the EU countries are developing ever closer cooperation and cooperation in more and more areas - and far beyond the original internal market. We must follow this awake and seek familiar and innovative ways of working together. Norway is linked to cooperation with the EU, where we see that joint action can give the most outnumbered – and that is in many areas. European policy is what I referred to in the previous report as the ‘our closest project to globalisation’. The prospect of stronger participation in European integration is an important contribution to the peaceful development of the Western Balkans, as we have seen in Central and Eastern Europe during the 1990s and until today. For new Member States, all the necessary adaptations and new legislation resulting from European integration provide a way out of authoritarian governance, the planning economy and consequences such as: uncontrolled environmental damage. For Kosovo and Serbia, ever closer cooperation with the EU will be crucial for the development of this part of Europe in the future. Since EU cooperation includes an increasing number of countries, we see an increasing trend towards constellations of like-minded countries within the Union - not necessarily in fixed groups, but more on an adhoc basis. Nordic and Nordic-Baltic cooperation have also been strengthened in recent years. The Nordic countries share a common approach to issues such as climate, environment, conflict resolution, human rights, social issues and food security. Norway prioritises making maximum use of these Nordic opportunities and cooperation with the Nordic countries, or only with two or three of them, on different issues. In the past, it could be challenging for the five Nordic countries to have a different alliance relationship with NATO and the EU. We may rather have to try to define the possibilities that this gives us. We see that NATO and the EU are strengthening cooperation in several areas. More and more dividing lines in Europe are being cleared up. Norway, Sweden and Finland have close contact with border regional issues and with North-West Russia. In NATO, Norway cooperates with Denmark and Iceland to focus the alliance on the challenges in the North Atlantic region. And all five have agreed to focus on Afghanistan. On the Norwegian side, we are interested in a stronger EU exposure in the north. And the development of the northern regions affects the EU countries. This will be Europe's new energy province. The EU countries have a self-interest in the region remaining calm and stable. And since fish from north ports on European tables, sound resource management is also in the interests of EU countries. That is why we need to seek partners in the EU to prevent black fishing and protect the vulnerable marine environment in the north. We see that bringing together 27 countries into one vote is a major challenge for the EU. There are dragonfights, and there are groups of countries that lead. In an EU of 27 countries, time and resources are also scarce for meetings with third countries - such as Norway. This makes our own work difficult for the EU. Formally, a non-member country will at least not be higher than the number 28 in the priority list. In reality, however, in many areas, we feel that we are far more central to contributing to and caring for both Norwegian and European interests. The EU has interests in us that we need to exploit. Keywords include: energy, fish, environment, climate and technology - and our experience in international diplomacy. I mentioned Barroso's visit here in February. We regularly have bilateral meetings with the European institutions. To illustrate: Under the previous Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, we had 18 meetings at the level of Prime Minister, Council of State and Secretary of State. With the current Slovenian Presidency, we will have 13 meetings at the same level, despite the high level of labour pressure on this new, small EU country. In this context, I can point out that Norway, together with the Slovenian Presidency and the Commission, is hosting a Ministerial Conference of Education in Oslo on 5 and 6 June as part of the marking of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, entitled ‘The Institutional Foundation for Dialogue and Respect’. Let me go into some other central and topical issues. First let me mention the climate. The theme of Barroso’s visit to Norway was climate and energy security. His participation with Prime Minister Stoltenberg during the opening of the seed vault at Svalbard at the end of February set spotlights both on this historic event, on environmental issues in general and on the current wide perspectives in the northern regions. Barroso acknowledged EU support for Norwegian environmental action and showed particular interest in issues related to the capture and storage of CO2. Earlier this year, 23 January, the Commission presented a package of proposals for addressing climate challenges. The Council and the European Parliament are now expected to adopt the details of this package by spring 2009. There are ambitious and binding EU targets: the EU should reduce its climate emissions by 20 pst. by 2020. It could be increased to 30 pst. if other countries, such as the United States, China and India, are also willing to contribute to a new internationally committed agreement. From the Norwegian side, we are working with the EU and other parties to ensure that such an agreement will be achieved during the climate summit in Copenhagen in the autumn of 2009. In addition to the reduction targets, the Commission’s climate and energy package states that renewable energy needs to be given a more important place in the energy supply of EU countries. Renewable energy shall be 20 pst. of total supply in the countries, and all countries need to increase the share of renewable energy by 5.5 pst. In addition, the objective will be achieved through burden-sharing, where EU countries with strong economies and good production potential will have to assume the greatest obligations. The Commission’s proposal for action is part of a wider strategy to promote an economy based on lower emissions. A responsible climate policy shall provide the basis for new technologies and business opportunities. In Norwegian public, there are different views about the EU and the importance of EU cooperation globally, as is the fact that Norway should be a member of the EU or a member of it. This debate is well known. However, few environments will deny that the EU has played an important and positive role in international climate change. In my view, the EU has a leadership role that Norway should support and play along. Several of the proposals contained in the Commission’s climate and energy package could be defined as EEA-relevant and thus have a direct impact on Norway. The Commission’s proposal for the reform of the quota system, the so-called Emissions Trading System (ETS), is among these. The EU's quota trading system, of which we are now part, is the most comprehensive in the world. Mr Barroso stressed when he was here that the EU objective was to extend the quota trading system so that it was not restricted to the EU/EEA countries. The vision for trading carbon quotas must be that it is global. That's the whole point, and only then will the system be a real success. The Commission also proposes that the system of free climate allowances should gradually lapse. This is in line with what the Government was working for, and I perceive that there is a broad consensus in the Storting. The Commission wants new greenhouse gases to be included in the allowance system. The ETS shall also apply to several sectors, such as aviation, petrochemistry, ammonia and aluminium. And the length of the allowance system is going to increase from three years in the first period to five years in the current and eight years in the next. This shall make the system more efficient and increase predictability for businesses. This we believe is the right way to go. We are pleased that the Commission is proposing to include capture, transport and storage - that is, CCS - in the quota system. This means that enterprises do not pay carbon allowances for CO2 that are securely stored. It is also positive that the Commission does not propose restrictions on the use of State aid for CCS projects. We have also noticed that the Commission is calling for a separate CO2 storage directive. This would be useful because it could provide a common framework for CO2 storage, and it could make it clear to the public that storage will be environmentally safe. The government prioritises the development of CO2 capture and storage and will contribute to the application of such technologies. None of the planned CO2 management projects in Norway can be carried out without significant public funding. The Commission points out that the lack of experience in such projects means that no State aid guidelines for CO2 management projects will now be established. The issue will still need to be assessed directly in relation to the State aid rules, including the exemptions provided for in the EEA Agreement and the EC Treaty. This is a good starting point for Norway. The EU wants up to 12 installations for CCS by 2015, and I hope that one or more of the Norwegian projects will be found among them. Research and development have been an important field for our cooperation with the EU, but have not received the public attention that the field deserves. Let me go a little bit closer to this in this presentation. Norway has been participating in the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development for more than 20 years and in the light of the EEA Agreement since 1994. The programme is clearly the largest EU programme in Norway. All 75 pst. - close to DKK 1 billion in 2008 - of the total Norwegian payments to the EU for participation in various EU programmes is just about the framework programme for research. This gives great weight to research cooperation in the entire Norwegian EEA work. The importance of the Framework Programme is underlined by the commitment of Norwegian research communities and Norwegian industry to this cooperation. Let me give you one illustration. The sixth EU Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development was officially completed in 2006. It has had good Norwegian participation. Norwegian research institutions and enterprises have participated in approximately 850 projects, representing about 10 pst. of all the projects in the programme. ==References== 3 500 Norwegian researchers have participated. In other words, the programme is a major gateway to international networks for Norwegian actors, contributing to the quality and relevance of Norwegian research. In comparison, Swedish researchers have participated in approx. 1 700 projects and Danish researchers in approx. 1 100 projects. So we still have something to go after. In the case of contract assets per year: Chapter 6 of the Framework Programme as a whole is Sweden, Denmark and Finland in the first, second and fourth places respectively and Norway in the seventh place among the 20 best participating countries. In sum, it shows the Nordic's ability to draw alternates on these possibilities. Norway is now participating in the Seventh Framework Programme for Research. Figures from the Commission show that Norwegian operators have received a good record in the first rounds of applications in most parts of the programme, especially in the fields of environment, energy and security research. This is positive. For us, it is an objective to put polar research, Svalbard and marine research on the map in the EU and the Seventh Framework Programme. In addition, it is part of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government, which aims to actively involve EU countries in closer and concrete cooperation on the challenges and opportunities in the north. Energy, climate and environment challenges can only be addressed in cooperation between professional communities as well as between authorities in several countries. Marine and maritime research is one of several important themes of the EU’s so-called Blue Paper on Maritime Policy. I will return to the blue paper and the active role of Norway in this connection, in a later explanation. Norway also has a leadership role in European forest cooperation, which gives us good opportunities to discuss the positive contribution of forests to climate change with EU countries. The Framework Programme for Research is the EU’s main instrument for financing research cooperation in Europe and the largest international research and development programme in its kind. The cooperation we have with the EU is developing significantly and goes beyond the project cooperation that we have traditionally had through the Framework Programme. EU research is increasingly integrated into our own national research and innovation policies. To illustrate, I would like to link this to three concrete processes in the EU in which Norway is now participating: firstly, the work on a roadmap for research infrastructures in Europe; secondly, the initiative to set up a new European Institute of Innovation and Technology, the EIT; and thirdly, the development of a pan-European research area, the European Research Area. With regard to the initiative to develop a roadmap for research infrastructures in Europe, the background is that modern research is characterised by increasing complexity and costs. European cooperation and cost sharing in large and expensive research infrastructures therefore makes sense. The Roadmap shall contain a comprehensive proposal to meet Europe’s infrastructure needs and priorities over the next 10-20 years. To this map, Norway has promoted three proposals relating to clean energy, aquaculture and Svalbard as a research platform, i.e. initiatives in key areas for us. Not least, I would like to stress the importance of Svalbard as a research platform. The eye group has the potential to become an international lighthouse for climate and environmental research. We propose, among other things: to establish a knowledge centre to provide services for a European research environment and to contribute to the integration of European research into the Arctic. This proposal has been met with great interest by the European Commission. Secondly, the EU has recently adopted the establishment of a new European Institute of Innovation and Technology, the European Institute of Innovation and Technology. The EIT will not be a traditional research and education institution, but a network-based institution with a small central administration. The aim is to link research, education and innovation in Europe more closely. Energy and climate are being developed as particularly relevant areas for the establishment of the first networks. The government is in favour of Norwegian participation in the EIT and will present this to the Stortinget in a separate proposition during the spring. So third, the two initiatives mentioned and the Seventh Framework Programme combine European research and contribute to the development of a pan-European research area, a so-called European Research Area. The EU Lisbon Strategy has such an area as vision. A public-private partnership, which includes businesses, Member States and associated countries, such as Norway, will facilitate high technology commitments. Cooperation and joint calls between the national research programmes in Europe shall be facilitated. I believe it is crucial for a country like Norway to take an active part in these processes, which will help to improve European research and competitiveness in the future. As I see it, the EU is now implementing a change of pace to realise the very vision of the European Research Area. New measures to increase the exchange of researchers in Europe and globally by reducing administrative and other barriers in Europe are further examples. Norway's participation in EEA cooperation links us to the internal market and the well-known four freedoms - goods, services, persons and capital. In fact, at this spring’s summit, EU Heads of State and Government called for the addition of a fifth freedom, namely the free movement of knowledge in Europe. Member States and the EU shall contribute to this, inter alia: by facilitating increased mobility across the boundaries of researchers, university teachers and students. In order to achieve this, cooperation in education is also central. In several communications in the Lisbon process, the Commission has highlighted the importance of the knowledge triangle research, innovation and education in recent years. Norway is participating in two key education plans: the Lifelong Learning Programme and Erasmus Mundus. Our contribution to these programmes is the second largest item, after the grant to the research programme, of the payments made to the EU. The labour market of researchers shall become more open. For me, it is clear that Norway will benefit from the implementation of such a vision. Although the EU's common projects have a major impact on the participating countries, their main responsibility remains with the national states. Research and development was allocated DKK 16.6 billion from the Norwegian State budget for 2007, and about 5 pst. of these public resources are linked to this European Research Coordination. The institutional new arrangements of the Treaty of Lisbon are and will gradually become comprehensive. The aim is to make the EU better adapted to an organisation of 27 and probably even more members. The failure of the bridge structure shall make it easier to see policy areas more in context. It is my opinion that the European Parliament will be significantly strengthened by the Treaty of Lisbon, both as a legislator, in the examination of the EU's common budget and by Parliament's being able to propose Treaty changes. Increasing the powers of the European Parliament means strengthening democracy in the European Union. And that gives us a new challenge in promoting Norwegian vision, because this is probably the EU institution with which we have the least intervention. We have to work to change this. At the same time, national parliaments will have greater influence in the EU. The main change is that national parliaments can play a more active role in relation to EU institutions as guardians of the principle of subsidiarity in the context of EU legislative proposals. The Lisbon Treaty also aims to strengthen the EU’s voice globally. It will enable EU countries to act more collectively on international issues, in particular through the transformation of the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the new EU External Action Service. Since Norway and the EU follow the same foreign policy line in a wide range of cases, all of this, in my view, is a positive development. It will not affect close cooperation and the ongoing dialogue Norway has with the EU on the many important foreign policy issues. However, since Norway's agreements with the EU in the EEA and Schengen field are sectoral agreements, and the EU now wants to see its policy in a more comprehensive perspective - the pillar structure falls as mentioned in the new Treaty - this can be a challenge for us. We can then have several EEA-Schengen-relevant acts that contain elements that are not covered by our agreements with the EU. How big these challenges become, I can't say anything for sure today, but we have to follow this closely. The Treaty of Lisbon will strengthen the involvement of the European Parliament in decision-making processes, and these will generally be faster and more effective. The use of a qualified majority will be extended and this will change the working form of the Council of the European Union. A natural consequence for us is that the pace of our internal handling of EEA and Schengen matters needs to be increased accordingly. It will require the efforts of the Government and of the Storting. With regard to the internal market, there are no major differences in current provisions and in the content of the new Treaty. But we are already seeing that the EU is increasingly using internal market directives to promote considerations such as combating terrorism and serious crime - objectives that are initially outside the scope of the EEA Agreement, but which also have effects on the internal market. The clearest examples are found in the transport sector, perhaps especially in the field of aviation safety, but we also see other examples, such as the Data Storage Directive - to which I come back - and new legislative proposals on explosives. In addition, the new Treaty involves significant changes in judicial and domestic cooperation. Some of these acts will directly affect us through the Schengen work. Judicial cooperation also affects us indirectly, and we therefore need to assess our actions in the light of the amended legislation. The Treaty of Lisbon is likely to contribute to the expansion and deepening of EU cooperation in areas outside our agreements. In this way, a relatively smaller proportion of the total EU activity will be covered by our agreements with the EU. At the same time, Norway’s relative political and economic weight in relation to the EU will be lower as a result of the enlargement of the EU. Some of this is about structural conditions, but also about politics - and that is what we must take as a starting point for our active influence. Norway’s agreements with the EU are not amended by the Treaty of Lisbon, for the framework for Norway’s cooperation with the EU will remain the EEA and Schengen. And both the EEA and Schengen are, as you know, agreements of international law which are not directly affected when the EU changes its Treaty basis. Nor will Norway's cooperation with the EU be unaffected by the Treaty of Lisbon, and my point is this: All the factors I have mentioned - combined with the fact that the EU includes several countries, with a focus on increasing the internal efficiency of cooperation - can offer weak opportunities to get EU-wide coverage for Norwegian interests and views, unless we are also able to adapt. Against this background, early warning and development of Norwegian positions, alliance construction and targeted influence in the EU capitals and EU institutions will only become even more important when the new Treaty enters into force in 2009 as planned. The objective is to complete the ratification process by 1 January next year, and so far eight countries and the European Parliament have ratified it. Ireland will hold a referendum, probably on 12 June this year. Finally, some relevant EEA matters: I mentioned at the outset that EU cooperation is developing in increasingly new areas - and beyond the internal market. Cooperation is increasingly cross-sectoral and coordination is taking place across the pillars of cooperation. This, as I said, is a challenge for Norway. Legislative developments may aim to achieve something outside the scope of the EEA Agreement in substance, but may at the same time have implications for economic operators involved in the internal market. Therefore, whether the legislation is EEA-relevant or not is not a simple assessment. We need to find a way to deal with this. We already see a number of examples of the use of internal market directives to promote objectives such as combating terrorism and combating organised crime. An EU act that has created debate in this context is the Data Storage Directive. It shall harmonise the rules of the EU countries on the storage of telecommunications data, namely traffic data, location data and subscriber and user data resulting from the use of electronic communications such as fixed telephony, mobile telephones and the Internet - in other words, data necessary to track and identify sources, call from and to, date, time and duration, and data necessary to identify the type of communication and equipment. It is important to stress that the content of the communication should not be stored. This Directive was adopted by the Council of the European Union in February 2006. The aim is to combat serious crime and terrorism. These are areas outside the scope of the EEA Agreement. EU countries are now implementing legislation. At this stage, the Government has not taken a decision as to whether the Directive is to be considered as EEA-relevant. From the Norwegian side, we are now going through the directive carefully, and I will come back to the bodies of Storting with a further mention of this matter later. I have noticed that in the debate on the directive there have been questions of principle, including: privacy related. We must therefore come back to this thoroughly. On 1 April this year, the European Court of Justice delivered a judgment on a case brought by Denmark and the European Parliament against the Commission in order to implement the ban on the environmental toxins of the brominated flame retardant deka-BDE in electrical and electronic products. The Court of Justice grants Denmark and the European Parliament the right that deka-BDE cannot be exempted from the prohibition in the Directive on the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic products, the so-called RoHS Directive. This means that deka-BDE cannot be used in such products in the EU from 1 July this year. Norway has a ban on deka-BDE in such products, and we intervened in support of Denmark and the European Parliament in the case before the Court of Justice. In line with our view, the Court interpreted the possibility of exception strictly. It is therefore a signal that there is a great deal to be done to allow deka-BDE to be placed on the market. In my view, this judgment is a good example of successful Norwegian influence work before the European Court of Justice. At the meeting of the EEA Committee on 26 October 2007, it was decided to incorporate the comprehensive new EU legislation in the field of food safety into the EEA Agreement. These are two decisions. One covers EU food law and Norwegian participation in the European Food Safety Authority, the European Food Safety Authority. The second decision concerns a total of 19 food hygiene and official controls acts to ensure compliance with feed and food law, animal health and animal welfare rules. These decisions include, inter alia: that Norwegian legislation has been harmonised with EU legislation in these important areas. They were taken without prejudice to the consent of the Storting, and propositions about this were promoted by the Council of State on 14 March this year. I would also like to mention the new EU chemicals legislation, REACH, which was adopted in December 2006 and which entered into force on 1 June last year. We have participated in the design of this and have worked to achieve the highest level of protection for health and the environment possible. The decision to include the REACH Regulation in the EEA Agreement was taken in the EEA Committee on 14 March of this year, subject to the consent of the Storting. It also contains an adaptation text, including: on procedures for the authorisation of products under the legislation and participation in the new Chemicals Agency. On 11 April this year, the Government promoted a proposal for the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee. Also relevant for Norway is the Commission’s new guidelines on State aid for environmental measures. The EU provides increased scope for action to provide public support for actions that promote the environment, although this may create obstacles to competition. Corresponding guidelines will be adopted by ESA and are essential for which Norwegian State aid measures can be approved. ESA publishes twice a year a scoreboard on the speed with which the EU and the EEA/EFTA countries implement internal market directives. In February of this year Norway was no. 22 among the 30 EEA countries. Norway’s result is within the EU’s objective that the proportion of directives not complying with the transposition deadline should not exceed 1,5 pst. This goal will be lowered to 1 pst. from 2009. In the future, ESA will focus more on the non-implementation of Regulations. ESA intends to bring an action before the EFTA Court if it has not been implemented within one year of its entry into force for Norway. This changed focus on regulations will confront us with increased challenges in the discharge of our EEA obligations. With regard to the Services Directive, it has been a primary objective of the Government - in line with the Soria Moria Declaration - to avoid a directive that leads to social dumping and reduced standards of health, environment and security and local democracy. We are therefore actively working to influence the content of the Directive before it was adopted. Since its adoption, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has chaired a working group to identify possible changes in Norwegian law as a result of the Directive. The government wants the best decision-making basis possible. That is why six external environments - after three other environments had investigated the matter - commissioned by the NHD to investigate issues related to the Directive. These investigations were published on 3 March this year and were presented at the Fafo East Forum the week after. The investigations will now be thoroughly reviewed before the Government takes a final decision on the Services Directive. Norway contributes to the smoothing of economic and social disparities in Europe through the EEA financial instruments. As an illustration of today’s inequalities, average earnings in the richest EU Member States, Luxembourg, are 23 times more than average earnings in Bulgaria, the poorest EU country. The EU's focus on these major economic inequalities is seen when it develops measures, for example: in the field of climate. Chargers shall be broken down by performance. For the EEA financial instruments, Norway’s contribution for the five-year period from 1 May 2004 to 30 April 2009 to the 15 poorest EU countries will be more than DKK 10 billion in total. Today we have approved on the Norwegian side approx. 450 projects and funds worth approx. NOK 4.5 billion, about half of the amount. About 20 pst. - almost every five - of the approved projects and funds involve partnership with Norwegian actors. Environment and sustainable development, cultural heritage and Schengen are the main sectors. Funds are currently being or remain to be spent in eight of the recipient countries. We now see the results of this effort. The tension in the projects is great. This also applies to the interest in the EEA funds in the recipient countries. We also see that the schemes create increased knowledge of Norway and interest in Norway - yes, they can contribute to a positive reputation for our country. To take a simple example: I got a enthusiastic feedback from my Slovenian colleague, who told me about Norway's contribution to the preservation of the Church of St. Georg, the most famous landmark in the port town of Piran on the Adriatic coast. This is one example of several hundred projects, from Estonia in the north to Malta in the south. In Poland, our largest recipient country, Norway supports, among other things. more energy and climate-related projects. More than 300 public buildings, schools and hospitals will be modernised. This will include, inter alia: reduce energy consumption by about half and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The current financial instruments expire on 30 April 2009. Norway has no legal obligation to continue these arrangements. However, the basic position of the Government is that Norway should also contribute to continued economic and social cohesion in the enlarged Europe. This serves basic Norwegian interests. We will therefore - probably now before the summer - start negotiations with the EU on future contributions from EEA/EFTA countries. The aim is for the negotiations to be concluded by the end of this year, 2008. It is our goal that, through these negotiations, we should reach agreement on future contributions that draw lessons from the experience we have gained so far, both in terms of the focus and the device of the arrangements. It is clear that investing in environmental and climate action will be a common objective with the recipient countries. And we have to assume that projects should also have an interest in participating Norwegian actors - in line with wide Norwegian interests. We want to emphasise it strongly in the negotiations. The Government will consider submitting to the Storting a notification focusing on the projects and results of EEA funding schemes. The government will also assess whether there may be other important European policy issues that can be presented in the form of a communication, as we have discussed in this Chamber in the past. We'll get back to this. European cooperation is one of Norway's most important means of meeting global, European and Norwegian challenges, i.e. the common challenges of our time. Cooperation with the EU gives us access to resources in e.g.: research, technology and networks. And cooperation with the EU helps to create solutions, often in the form of institutional mechanisms, which are legally binding. In other words, Norway participates in a web of systems that guarantees rights and obligations, which I like to call a European Binding Agency. We see solutions negotiated between the 27 Member States of the European Union and the European Parliament becoming increasingly complex. Given Norway’s relationship with the EU, this presents us with some challenges. At the same time, we can succeed in making an impact on our interests in important areas. And we are strengthening cooperation in areas where we have common objectives and interests with the EU Member States - such as in the fields of environment, climate and research, which this statement has been about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e338	The President will propose that the Secretary of State’s statement be discussed at a later meeting. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e352	This is a piece of new work, both from the Government and from the Stortinget side. The prevention aspect of humanitarian disasters has been systematically reviewed. Not that the work is now finished, rather on the contrary, this is probably just the beginning of something we must constantly have a look at. The notification provided a good framework for the work of the Committee. With well over a hundred proposals for action, it cannot be said to lack ambition. The challenges are more likely to be priorities and the ability to implement all the good. In my view, the Committee has had similar interests in this matter, including in its views. That is why, in most cases, there is a unanimous committee behind the setting. The work to be done now will be continuous, so there is no government to do alone. Then it is good that the Storting on all important questions in this matter has been brought together. The progress party has some own comments, and I'll come back to these later. Some of the most important committees stress that national and local authorities around the world are responsible for preventing and preventing humanitarian disasters. No one, nor Norway, can or will relieve anyone of that responsibility, but we can contribute bilaterally or multilaterally with support and empowerment that improves the ability of local and national authorities to fulfil their tasks. We see that countries that have had improved material development, such as the United States and Japan. China, now tackles its challenges in a completely different way than, for example, 30-40 years ago. Therefore, poverty reduction and good development policies are important to prevent earthquakes, tsunamis and other disasters from becoming humanitarian disasters. The notification and setting does not initially differ as to whether the disaster is man-made or natural. For those who are affected, it can also be indifferent. The important thing is to preferably prevent disasters, then to minimise the negative impact. New challenges require new solutions. Therefore, the Committee asks the Government to take initiatives in the United Nations to discuss the need for a separate definition in relation to so-called climate refugees. Food safety is a burning issue at these times, and it is also highlighted in this case. In particular, this attitude points to the relationship between water and food, which is often very crucial. Water is essential, and giving all access to this resource is essential to ensure food security and to avoid disasters of a different nature. Adaptation to the local situation is a keyword. The absence of closed borders and good regional cooperation can prevent disasters, which is why it is important to promote regional integration and the willingness to address these fundamental problems across borders. At this point, the Progress Party chooses to go a little deeper in matter and strike a blow for trade in so-called ‘virtual water’, which is an expression of how much water is needed to produce a product or a service. Adaptation to climate change is essential for meeting today’s and tomorrow’s challenges. Reduced vulnerability to the civilian population is important, and the transfer of competences will be crucial here. In this context, it is also important to address urbanisation. There are other challenges today than whether such a plan should have been made just 20 years ago. Armed conflicts, epidemics, poor health conditions, poor sanitation, HIV/AIDS are also important keywords for understanding the challenges facing the poorest countries. Each or all too often together, these relationships are enough to change a situation from serious to catastrophic. Robustness in many poor countries is so low that the ability to tackle more complex challenges is lacking. I would also like to add that in order to succeed this must also be well managed. Without political leaders who feel a responsibility for their own people, little will happen. Too often, good attempts are made to change the agendas of local and national leaders, for example. international donors. The position of women and children in various disasters is a concern of the Committee. Their position is usually most vulnerable and their needs need to be addressed in particular. The government’s focus on women’s vulnerability and rights in the event of humanitarian disasters is important. The Committee would also ask for special attention to be paid to girls, which, unfortunately, are particularly vulnerable. A child perspective is important and should be taken into account, but we also ask for a special focus on the situation of girls. In its comments, the Committee has emphasised the importance of local markets and to increase local purchasing power in response to humanitarian disasters, in order not to destroy local market structures. Now that we seem to be facing a serious food crisis and Norway, among other things. increasing its allocation through the UN food programme, it is important that this is complied with, and that alternative ways of helping people with food than with an old-fashioned food distribution are seen, so that no new structural problems are created in food distribution. I would also like to highlight the Committee's comment on putting in place clear rights of property and use. The Committee points out in the preamble to the Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto that the problem for the world's poor is neither that they are helpless nor that they have no resources but that they are non-property. In Latin America and Africa, there are particular problems related to women's right to property. In the opinion of the Committee, climate and environmental challenges must be at the heart of Norwegian humanitarian efforts. It is about not contributing to environmental degradation and focusing on the prevention of climate-related natural disasters. The Committee points here to the need for knowledge of climate change. The Progress Party does not seem that the use of the so-called Stern report by the message provides the necessary audacity to address the climate challenges, and believes that it would be sensible to use other sources to discuss these challenges. The Government's desire to increase support both financially and professionally for warning systems in the event of natural disasters is supported by the Committee. Connecting Norwegian professional environments to this work internationally is positive. Peace building and disarmament are important. Here the government has high ambitions. It's both right and something that the committee knows to value. The Progress Party does not disagree with the effort to improve the UN's ability to resolve conflicts and build up under existing environments in this area, but we are somewhat more doubtful as to whether it is right to invest in building more such competences in Norway. We note that already today there appear to be more active environments in Norway in this area. The goal must be peace, and not that it is necessarily created by a Northman. We record that we are alone about scepticism to further invest in peace building capacity in Norway. In the consultations carried out by the Committee on this matter, the Red Cross raised a theme which the Committee hopes the Government will notice, and there is a need to liberalise national restrictions on the introduction of goods and personnel in the context of crisis relief. It is very unfortunate that vital assistance is on the borders of a country hit by disaster, due to national legislation preventing rapid response to disaster challenges. Despite the relatively small size of the notification, there is a great deal of scope for action. Neither the committee nor I in this post have considered it necessary to comment on all matters. On the other hand, the Committee looks forward to following the follow-up of this Communication by the Government, because it is clear that there is a great deal to be taken up here, and there will also be a need for prioritisation of tasks. Unfortunately, it is not that disasters are now taking a break while we have to take all the good measures. The road has to be provided as we go, and some of the questions raised by the message and the setting have already become more relevant in the short period that has elapsed since the suspension was issued and for today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e397	The Intergovernmental Panel estimates that climate and environmental changes could lead to 150 million new refugees by 2050. Climate change is also one of the three major risk factors that we face, which will create more and more humanitarian disasters, to which the report also attaches extra importance. Does the Progress Party recognise that climate change will lead to such serious disasters? Does the Progress Party agree that we need to be leading was, by doing all we can, not just to adapt to the changes that we know are coming, but also to slow down further climate change by cutting CO2 emissions, so that, with the knowledge that we have at our disposal, we can say that at least we could do what we could to prevent further humanitarian disasters in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e407	In the UK, the Progress Party has promoted a comprehensive proposal, with more than 30 measures, to address the challenge related to, among other things. CO2 emissions. It shows that we are taking this challenge particularly seriously. We are also encouraging, we say quite clearly, more research on this issue, both in terms of prevention, and in terms of combating climate change. We don't have to sit down and be satisfied with any of what we do. So we're open to discuss. But what we're recording is that some people are kind of done with the debate: the climate issue is resolved, and this is the recipe for how we're going to solve it. We face this challenge with an open mind. But I want to say that with the more than 30 measures we have proposed in this room, we show that we have not at all rejected the serious nature of this threat. On the contrary, we feel that we have taken it really seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e419	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e422	Humanitarian aid is necessary in crisis situations. Nevertheless, policies are most important - lasting structural changes that prevent disasters, eliminate poverty and ensure sustainable development. Development policy means that a country has the capacity to protect its citizens from conflict and crisis and climate change and to provide them with a safer framework for human and economic development. Prevention is essential in order to achieve the UN’s Millennium Goals and to prevent increased and new poverty as a result of a crisis, see above. the current situation. Vulnerability of humanitarian and environmental disasters is largely synonymous with poverty. To achieve the Millennium Goals, we need to ensure that individual communities are robust. Therefore, long-term Norwegian development cooperation must also contribute to the prevention of humanitarian disasters, including the strengthening of local preparedness. Against this background, today’s big message is exemplary and would have deserved more attention than it has so far received. This is a global vulnerability message, recognising the importance of the interaction between humanitarian and long-term aid, but also the interaction between aid and important structural development processes. Climate action is a prerequisite for achieving the UN’s Millennium Goals, but also for preventing disasters. Poor societies are particularly vulnerable to climate change, including: because they depend on climate-sensitive resources, such as local supply and food. Many of the world's poor are directly dependent on the environment, such as food through agriculture, forestry and fishing. It is likely that the poorest will also be hardest hit by pollution in air and water and by unsustainable food production. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says that we can get more cases of disease and death by hot waves, floods, storms, fires, droughts and desertification. The UN's objective of reducing child mortality by two thirds requires access to clean water and good nutrition. The Committee has pointed out in its opinion that climate refugees often fall outside the rights and assistance required for refugees under the UN Convention on Refugees. This was also the case rapporteur. Many of them are internally displaced. And there's probably some of the problem here, because they're perceived as migrants. In a lot of ways, we're standing here in front of broken ground, international law. Oxford University has estimated that 150 million people may be on the run as a result of climate change in 2050. When the Committee asks the Government to take an initiative in the United Nations to discuss a definition of international law of the peoples moving due to desertification, floods, snow smelting or other climate change, it is in order to be in the forefront. Researchers today disagree on the definition, especially because the causes of migration are often diverse. Brian Gorlick from UNDP, the United Nations Development Programme, uses the term ‘climate displacement’, i.e. ‘environmentally displaced persons’. He proposed at a climate seminar a year ago the following definition: ‘People who are displaced from or who feel compelled to leave their permanent residence because their lives, livelihoods and well-being have been exposed to high risks as a result of negative environmental, ecological or climatic processes and events.’ Surely we need a debate on climate-related migration in a broad sense. The Communication emphasises the gender perspective in the event of disasters and points out that there are significantly more women dying than men in crises. In this context, I would also like to refer to what the rapporteur said about girls. Seven out of ten people who are starving, for example, are women. Women and girls in exile are particularly vulnerable to violence and sexual abuse in connection with armed conflicts. Since the majority of the world's poor are actually women, they are also more vulnerable, of course, in disaster situations. In fact, this also applies to a rich country like Japan, where under the earthquake in Kobe in 1995, half a time as many women as men died, simply because older women lived in poor homes. I also refer to the Norwegian Action Plan to follow up UN Security Resolution 1325, and not least to the forthcoming Committee position on St.meld. No 11 for 2007-2008 and the debate we are having here in the Chamber. In the Communication, the government has listed a number of measures - I do not remember on the fly how many - to prevent disasters, this as an action plan. These are commendable proposals. Perhaps a priority list should be created. Let me point out what it says about South-South cooperation and regional partnerships, among other things. strengthening cooperation with regional organisations in the south with a view to more systematic exchange of experience and capacity building. I point out that the Committee stresses that the overall focus is to strengthen local authorities in their work on prevention and to make local communities more robust - or to create a more robust civil protection, if you call it that. Finally, let me point out that, like the communication, the Committee stresses that the humanitarian imperative and the UN's Millennium Goals are setting out the main course for how to meet the global challenges. I have not said anything about food prices. But the increase we see now can push hundreds of millions of people into poverty, according to the President of the World Bank. There is today a meeting in London, as we know. Perhaps we would have needed a separate debate on this topic in this Chamber, for example. in the form of an interpellation. In this round, I will be very careful to say that even if emergency assistance has to be provided temporarily, it is again the long-term course that is important. It must be something quite different than short-term relief. Politics is again most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e462	This is a good message. We get a good discussion without a crisis - although there are always crises, there's not an acute crisis on top news now. It is not long since, on a Norwegian scale, a major crisis occurred in Ålesund. This went into many people. I will go even further back in history to Ålesund, for there are some experiences to take with me in terms of crises and prevention, also how one manages crises, and what one can learn from crises in view of what happened when Ålesund burned. When that happened, in the county of Romesdal there was a man named Alexander Kielland. He was a countyman up there. He was really angry, because he wasn't allowed by Oslo to take the hunt down to Ålesund to do salvage work. It was a big conflict about who should be responsible. Kielland wrote in his good way about this, and if there was anything he could, it was writing about it. But then he was allowed to add the game in Ålesund and start organizing the rescue work and, of course, also the sewing aid that came to Ålesund. It was food. He was able to demonstrate that this was so badly organized that food was low and rotting, etc. We see that when we try to help, we don't always get it in the same way. But we don't have to forget that these problems we've also had in Norway. They are well described by the countyman in connection with the disaster in Ålesund - organizationally, it was undecided who would help, and the practical work was not helpful either. So we're going to be involved in the further work that this isn't just easy, and also that Norway is struggling with this kind of organization. Then we know that the number of wars is falling, but unfortunately the number of humanitarian disasters is increasing. That is why this debate we have today is even more important. We are not going to take the old debate that emergency aid is in a way distorting long-term assistance. It can and should go hand in hand. We're going to be careful to get into the policy development of disasters -- never so crazy that it's not good for anything. The representative Høglund and I were in Sri Lanka after the tsunami. There we saw with our own eyes that one was unable to notify, even though it took nine hours from the maremoto or tsunami to reach Sri Lanka. It was not the only warning system. Had I been mentioned at all in More and Romesdal that I was not busy with rescue skates or rescue helicopters, I had been kicked out of this hall at the moment. But we notice that the requirement for warning, for lifesaving equipment, etc. from that part of Sri Lanka, Hambantota, did not reach the capital. So what we can learn is that politics has to do anyway. There must be policy developments and there must be consequences for someone if rescue and alert work is not present. We know from experience in Norway that we must respond to this as politicians. We also need to include this in our work when we are out trying to help, because it must be a strengthening of local authorities, but it must also be open to the political, local pressure for decisions, which will always be there. I see that the committee has written a lot of comments. I will take this for myself with climate change and the water’s role as a cause of conflict, but also as a catalyst for peace. Finally, we have come to the point that the expanded security scope is now of course to be discussed. Because that's the big thing: we know that we can't just use balls and powder. We need to think a lot wider to get a solution to conflict management. Climate is on the Pentagon's list of threats, Sweden has it up on its largest footscale. It's just more and more common that there's the climate as a liability. That's where the challenges lie. I also understand that the Progress Party says that there is no doubt that the climate is important to take separately. There are a lot of people's rights that are somehow relevant to the environment, and the most important of them are those that go on accessing life-creating resources, such as water and food. These human rights will only appear more and more, and of course they will go hand in hand with the civil rights. But we know that that will be the basis for helping people deal with the everyday life they come out into when they become the victim of humanitarian disasters. Lack of water is a critical factor in most humanitarian disasters and can lead to considerable conflict. As a result of climate change policies, this will be reinforced further. If we look at the dangers of elective conflicts due to water shortages, this danger is particularly exacerbated when militaryly stronger states or regions are downstream of military weaker states. Water conflicts also often spring out of development programs that privatise water access without taking the necessary care of the poor. It is China, India, Mexico, Peru, the Middle East, southern Africa and Central Asia that have experienced and will in future experience conflicts about drinking water access. At the same time, it is important to stress that although the fight for water is asking for sources of conflict, this resource struggle can also be used to promote peace. Water has more often been a source of cooperation than a source of conflict. Where people depend on common water resources, they become forced into contact, for the simple reason that water is the resource on which humans depend most. As a result, there will be both more conflict and more cooperation in the management of vital water. It is therefore not difficult to find water conflicts - when searching for them. But it is also not difficult to find more peaceful solutions, which have come out of corresponding resource struggles. The United Nations Environment and Development Programme has listed approximately 3600 different cooperation agreements on water that has been recorded through history. These show that even among the world’s worst enemies, agreement has been reached on water. One of the best examples of this is for Israel and Jordan, who have kept in constant contact with the management of the Jordan River since 1953, despite the fact that these states were officially at war from 1948 to 1994. The same is true of the Indian River Commission, which has operated through two wars between India and Pakistan. Against this background, it is obvious that a focus on water, both for conflict-building and for peace-building, will be important in the time to come. The message on the prevention of humanitarian disasters is an expression that the Government sees these major lines and thus facilitates policy development as the most important thing. However, one must also, of course, provide resources in the form of long-term prevention and emergency assistance when necessary, without prejudice to prevention and policy development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e490	Large parts of this setting provide a clear and broad connection to the grips and strategies of the Storing Message in relation to the themes addressed. There is therefore no reason to say that there is no major political disagreement on the need to prevent humanitarian disasters or on what policy we should have in relation to them. However, I would like to make some comments on some of the challenges that lie here. It's true that up to a few months ago, at least I, and probably many others, could say that we were about to achieve some of our thousand-year goals for the world as a whole. We had a development where more people came out of poverty, where at the global level they could achieve the goal of halving the number of people who lived on less than $1 day. The challenge in the last few months has, among other things: Which means that living on 1 dollar a day -- or having come over 1 dollar a day -- isn't a good parameter anymore, because once the food has become so much more expensive, it means that even if the amount of money can increase, the disaster for those who have come over may be greater than if they had been under it. It also says something about the fact that perspectives can move quickly, because we get into a situation where countries we didn't think would have food shortages or lack the ability to distribute food for a reasonable money, have become a significantly larger and more difficult question. It says something about prevention, because everything is related to everything, and you can try to prevent conflicts and problems, but suddenly new challenges may arise in other areas. One of the most important things, I think, is to be aware of and bear in mind that there are two different causes of humanitarian disasters. One is natural disasters, which it is difficult - at least mainly - to prevent. It's about having an important and fast callout device to help out. One of the interesting things that's happened in recent years is how NATO's conversion of its own security strategy, among other things. has resulted in capacities that can help in disaster situations. It has been unusual to imagine that NATO would contribute helicopter and aviation assistance in connection with the Pakistan earthquake, if you only go back ten years in time, where it wasn't considered natural. This means that having rapid mobile capabilities to help, whether it's the humanitarian aid, whether it's logistics/support functions or it's the military, helps us to help even more in the case of natural disasters. We must strive to have that. I believe it is important to spend money on being prepared of that kind, both in relation to the preparedness of non-governmental organisations and in relation to their own country's preparedness, in order to be able to move out quickly and effectively when something happens. And we have to have transparency so that even military personnel and military forces can then be used, and not go into that pitfall and say that it is dangerous to mix humanitarian and military when it comes to an acute natural disaster. There are sometimes some theoretical discussions, which I think we should add when people at that time need emergency help and emergency care. The second is that there are many man-made - both short-term and slightly longer-term - disasters. Natural disasters, water conflicts and desertification are natural and need to be addressed by a long-term prevention strategy to address climate issues. But of course, other conflicts - ethnic and religious - also contribute to disasters. In this area, we often encounter other issues, which I do not think we discussed well enough in the committee, but which we should think through. That's how we manage to make the United Nations function better as an apparatus when one of the conflictkeepers is national authorities in a country. That's where we face a lot of the problems of being able to intervene and help when the disaster is there. It's about Darfur and how the Sudanese government is trying to put the most possible obstacles in the way that people can come in to help, stabilize and lift the situation. But it is also important to be able to look at how the hunger disaster that has now repeatedly occurred in North Korea is happening to the authorities in the country's acceptance, without the desire to get help from others because it is about national and systemic performance. I think we need a challenging discussion about how far human rights are going, and how the United Nations system is dealing with this. It is one of the debates we should try to put on the international agenda, namely the dignity of human life, regardless of whether it is a conflict with individual governments and systems and how we can break through this. Much of the balance of power internationally in recent years may indicate that there are several countries with greater international power that do not accept the need to enter and help individual groups in an emergency. They've got greater power than they had just ten years ago. In that case, it's a step backwards in world politics that we should be doing something about. In sum, we believe that the steps taken and launched in this big message, the coordination and the need to have a comprehensive policy are correct. But we also feel that it is important to think about rapid response capabilities at different levels, both in humanitarian organisations, in military capacity and in the capacity of Norwegian authorities. In this area too, I believe that we have come a long way in Norway in the last ten years. Many of the volunteer organizations have built a very good apparatus. We need to ensure that we also contribute to supporting it, in order to be able to be present quickly in a given crisis or conflict situation. It is also important to ensure that their presence is accepted and respected. The greatest threat today to much of the humanitarian work may not be our ability to finance or participate, but local respect for those who are going to do the job. We see more and more situations in which there are threats to voluntary humanitarian organisations trying to help people on the ground. It's a challenge that I don't have all the answers to, but we have to have a pretty strong focus on if we're to get the mechanisms we've set up to work well in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e510	It is gratifying that global disaster prevention work is progressing. People continue to die as a result of disasters such as earthquakes, floods, droughts, extreme storms and epidemics, but the number of deaths in natural disasters has fallen in recent years. So where is the biggest challenge now? Yes, in the fact that 70 pst. Seven out of ten victims are from the world's poorest country. It shows that disaster prevention must have a strong, poverty-oriented development profile. The poor are the most vulnerable. We are still getting new reminders of that. Media is full of alarming reports of a strong wave of price growth on basic foods such as wheat and rice. That wave can become a new tsunami that hits the world's poorest. Malnutrition, starvation and death can be the result of those who have only one dollar a day to live for, and who cannot cope with the higher food prices. The poorest are the most vulnerable. This requires stronger efforts from rich countries. We need to strengthen targeted emergency assistance for the most vulnerable groups. The government announced a 60 million contribution. The World Food Fund is a step in the right direction, but not enough. We need to strengthen the requirements for climate action, for example. what is required for the acceptable production of biofuels, so that we do not allow climate policy to go at the expense of the poorest. We also need to strengthen long-term measures for agricultural development in selected poor developing countries, so that they become less vulnerable to the effects of climate change and extreme weather conditions. The Bondevik II government presented an action plan for enhanced development cooperation in the agricultural sector. Unfortunately, it has not followed up as provided after the government change, but I hope it is now beginning to happen, after a unanimous foreign committee called for the follow-up last autumn. Such enhanced assistance in the field of agriculture can also improve the capacity of poor farmers of the developing world to exploit the opportunities offered by the price of their food products. Then, economic acts such as the EU and the United States must end with the massive export subsidies that have destroyed the profit possibilities and thus the basis of life for so many small farmers in, for example. Africa. I agree with the representative Nybakk that the Stortinget should have its own debate on these issues, and I can inform you that I have already reported an interview to the Government on how Norway will meet the food crisis that is under full development in the world. Humanitarian disasters can have different causes, from natural disasters to wars, conflicts and political mismanagement. The latter is a tragic example of Zimbabwe. From being one of Africa's granaries, the country has been given its economy by President Mugabe, and large parts of the population have been sent in exile or in internal distress. Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre would like to include the following message to Prime Minister Stoltenberg: The government has the full support of the Christian People's Party in its praiseworthy clear speech against the Mugabe regime's handling of the election results in Zimbabwe. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is important that the Foreign Affairs Committee in this position clarify the close link between emergency aid and longer-term assistance. It is clearly documented. From this point of view, two main objectives of prevention are confirmed: in accordance with the humanitarian imperative, we must save lives, alleviate distress and ensure the protection of people in crisis situations. Secondly, prevention is essential for combating poverty and ensuring sustainable development. In agreement with this, it is a unanimous committee that states that humanitarian imperatives and the Millennium Goals set out the main course for how to meet the global challenges. For the Christian People's Party, this is an important consensus, in line with our consistent and strong commitment to development policy. We are only halfway through the implementation period of the UN's Millennium Goals, and must not lose focus. Obligations must be monitored, through increased efforts for education for all, through the strengthening of vaccine programmes and healthcare in developing countries, etc. It will probably not be surprising that the Christian People's Party is satisfied that the entire Committee uses the University of Stavanger as a witness to the fact that the policy of the present communication is drawing up is well in line with the priorities to which the Stortinget agreed in the discussion of the St.meld of the Bondevik II Government. No 35 for 2003-2004 on the common fight against poverty and the setting of that Communication. The whole Foreign Affairs Committee agrees with the principle of the clear link between emergency aid and preventive assistance. If disaster prevention is to succeed, long-term development assistance is needed to strengthen the capacity of developing countries to master their challenges. It is primarily when it comes to drawing the practical and political consequences of political consensus that consensus cracks. The Progress Party falls off when the Committee draws on the logical consequence, namely that industrialised countries need to follow up their aid policy commitments and give higher priority to efforts for the UN's Millennium Goals. But there is something to rejoice about anyway, because as soon as one goes from drawing practical policy consequences to re-explaining reality, the Progress Party is once again involved in the broad consensus of the Committee. Yes, already in the first sentence after this, the Committee agrees that emergency aid and long-term development must be seen in the context of achieving an impact in development cooperation. I choose to rejoice over this recognition-theoretic consensus more than I am over the gap in the will to follow up in practical, solidarity-oriented development cooperation. And I would like to commend the rapporteur, Mr Höglund, of the Progress Party, for his rapporteurship in this matter. But I can't believe, I have to add that if his theoretical recognition had also influenced the practical policies of the Progress Party, we would have enjoyed even more. It's e.g. welcomes the fact that the entire Committee, without this, notes that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (Intergovernmental Panel) announces that the consequences of climate change for Africa will be longer periods of drought, increased problems with low food security, starvation and increased water shortage. And then, in different contexts, we're going to work even harder to get broad insights into the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e539	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e542	Is the representative of the Højbräten agree with me that if the practical results of the assistance had been as we expected, would it have been even more to rejoice over?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e547	Of course, as the representative, Høglund, never allows a chance to remember, there are examples of aid projects that are not successful. But instead of looking at all the examples of what has not worked out, I think the Progress Party should change the focus and raise what we get -- and there are certainly many examples of both Norwegian assistance and international assistance in general -- and then use it to reinforce the good, get more of what actually succeeds, so that the people we talk about, who depend on success, actually get a better everyday life and survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e552	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e555	The Central Party will be very pleased that we have received a communication on Norwegian policy to prevent humanitarian disasters. It is also gratifying that it is largely a unanimous committee behind the setting of this message. Nevertheless, I would like to take the opportunity to make some additional comments. First of all, I want to focus on a current and growing humanitarian challenge, which has been faced by several other speakers, namely the food crisis we are experiencing in the world today. There is a notice that food prices have increased by 85 pst. in recent years, and that the price of rice has actually increased by 100 pst., and that is the cereal that is most important to many of the world's poorest. There are many factors that can explain the situation that we've come up with, but let me point to one factor that we at least have the opportunity to do something about. Today we have an increasing use of agricultural land for the production of crops that go to biodiesel. It's a sign that the rich world is using a maybe easy way to get out of a climate problem. I record that Evo Morales, President of Bolivia, is critical of its neighbours in South America who have chosen to use agricultural land for the production of crops that can be used for biodiesel. Gordon Brown, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, has also expressed a critical opinion on the EU's 10 p.m. target. the use of biodiesel and the German Minister for the Environment is working on a proposal for a ban on the use of cereals for the production of biodiesel. It's a paradox that in some parts of the world, some people use a whole 70 pst. of its income for food, while in Norway we use about 10 pst. We have to feel a moral obligation to use at least our national agricultural area for food production, and I hope that we can be a driving force in the fight to save as much agricultural land as possible for just the necessary food production. I agree with the representative of Marit Nybakk and the representative of Højbräten that we need a debate on this in this country and in this Chamber. The next theme I want to focus on is increasing water shortages and that this, which many people have been involved in, can pose a significant threat in the future. Lesotho and Zambia are examples of countries in Africa that have significant water resources but do not have the capacity to exploit them for their own population. It could be timely to get an evaluation of the situation in the area and the cause of the deficiency that we have there. It is important that we can contribute with technology and knowledge transfer and also contribute financially to the development and better use of water resources. But I'd be interested if we were to move towards privatization of these vital resources. It could create a new conflict in the future. Therefore, it is important that in such development work we have close and good cooperation with central and local authorities in relevant developing countries and that these important resources are managed by the local population in the future. And then I want to get into a last theme, which, as far as I'm concerned, no one has affected. This concerns the forthcoming conference on class weapons in Dublin, 19-31 May. Here we have had the happy development that today there are 100 countries working to limit a weapon system that causes significant humanitarian problems. There has to be an objective that we have to get the most comprehensive ban possible. I know that it is working on what is called a qualified ban, and that Norway is at the forefront of this work. We note this with satisfaction. However, we face very difficult balances in this work, including: clear definitions of the most harmful types of weapons in this system. Similarly, we have a significant challenge in achieving good stock resolution and preventing this type of weapon from spreading to poor countries in the Third World, with the disastrous consequences it may have. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is a solid and good start to a work that will be long-lasting, and with which we have to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e572	I want to begin by commending the Government for providing a big message on a very important topic. I fully share the assessment that there is a lack of holisticity in terms of emergency assistance, transitional assistance and long-term development cooperation. There is therefore a clear need to see this in context and to prevent different forms of assistance from counteracting each other. Predictable and co-ordinated rural activities are one of several important elements to succeed in preventing humanitarian disasters. And from the United Nations Field Trip in January this year: When the disaster hurricane Felix hit the poorest of the poor in Nicaragua, it was great to hear that precisely the United Nations' coordinating effort was crucial to saving human lives. Furthermore, the Left would stress the importance of the principle of subsidiarity. This must be the basis for our preventive action. It is important here to draw on local competences, structures and markets. This concerns the preparation of vulnerability analyses as well as the implementation of concrete prevention measures. They are the victims of a disaster, who know best where they are most vulnerable, and which measures can be most effective. The more local ownership it is in the prevention work, the more effective I think it will be, and the better a community will be equipped to face a humanitarian disaster. This requires an facilitating role for a donor country such as Norway — not detailed management. The principle of subsidiarity and ownership in terms of its own development are, moreover, the main elements of the development policy platform of the Left, which we have recently presented. I am convinced that the vulnerability associated with humanitarian crises will be significantly reduced by promoting a varied business environment. Many small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to get back to business faster after a disaster than, for example, a disaster. a large corner stone enterprise. Furthermore, many small and medium-sized enterprises will be able to contribute to the necessary goods and services, both for the purposes of prevention and for the reconstruction phase following a disaster. I therefore believe that promoting a diverse local economy, with many small and medium-sized enterprises, is actually an effective measure to reduce the vulnerability of a society. I have also been concerned about women's vulnerable position in the context of humanitarian disasters in my career. In many cases, women and children are defined into a victim role. This also applies in the context of wars and unrest and in the context of underdevelopment and poverty in general. In many cases this is justified. However, this should not overshadow the fact that women can also appear to be a significant resource in their communities. This applies, inter alia, to: as regards the promotion of peace and stability following a humanitarian disaster and the relaunch of local business. In several African countries, for example, play. women a central role in agriculture. In Bangladesh, women are reliable customers of microcredit funding institutions. It should therefore be clarified that both women and women’s organisations are a resource in preventing humanitarian crises. This applies to both prevention, response and long-term reconstruction. A better understanding of the vulnerability of women as well as the ability to appear as a resource is therefore very important in terms of policy-making and concrete measures related to prevention assistance. Climate-related disasters are expected to increase in frequency, and in the future they will generate an increasing number of climate refugees. This is the left busy one. Many of these will end up as internal refugees. As a preventive measure, I believe that the status of these refugees should be clarified in relation to the UN Convention on Refugees, which is also agreed by the Committee. Once a climate-related disaster has occurred, the formal status and rights of these refugees should be known. This will make the work of helping them much easier. Climate-related disasters are usually related to water. Access to clean water is often a very crucial factor in the context of a humanitarian crisis and may contain a significant potential for conflict, as mentioned by several other representatives. Increasing climate change can further reinforce this. I have therefore missed a more comprehensive and comprehensive treatment of this with water in the framework of the prevention of humanitarian disasters. Water is mentioned a number of times, but then in different contexts. It might have been a separate chapter dealing only with this important topic. Climate change is also one of several reasons why food prices are rising sharply in the world today. I also, like several others, finally want to dwell a little on this, as this can contribute to new humanitarian disasters linked to hunger. In several countries, we see that hungry masses of people are rioting because of higher food prices. This applies, for example: in Haiti, where the government was recently overthrown and a number of people were killed. There have also been some violent unrest in Egypt, the Philippines, Cameroon, Mauritania, Mozambique, Senegal and Bolivia - to name a few countries. The UN warns that this is just a warning and that further price rises can lead to more unrest. This is very serious. This may lead to a reversal of many years of efforts to promote development in a number of poor countries. Furthermore, long-term assistance will have to give way to short-term relief in order to alleviate hunger and avert humanitarian disasters. The potential for achieving the UN’s Millennium Goals can be significantly weakened. This makes the food safety section in St.meld. No 9 for 2007-2008 has had an even stronger timeliness than when the message was written. The commitment to food safety should therefore be strengthened, inter alia: by stimulating the production of food, stabilising prices and combating speculation aimed at world commodity exchanges, which are important for nutrition. These are major tasks that Norway should seek to solve multilaterally and together with other resource-intensive countries. I believe that Norway, with a small and well-born population, has a significant moral responsibility to help prevent future humanitarian disasters just linked to hunger.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e602	There has been an interesting debate, and I would like to commend the committee, and in particular the rapporteur, for bringing this up to a very interesting position. You can ask yourself in the time of reflection: Does it benefit what a small country like Norway, which despite too high aid despite everything is a small player, does or does not? I don't think anyone in this room has that attitude about politics. It's because we believe that politics benefits us from being here. Then I want to say that we have achieved a great deal with this message, namely that we now have a promise of knowledge, I think, all of them: the administration that has developed it, the Stortinge that has debated it, and the common attitude that gathers us about it. It's a great strength for us to go on. I think we can now participate in the international forums with a very up-to-date and modern message about this, and that is where Norway should be. So I understand that the committee didn't want to comment on all of the 112 specific points. It's not an expression of a lack of priority on the part of the Government, but it's an illustration of where we have to focus on these points. We're now working on concretely where we're going to put the effort, a little bit in terms of the forum in which it's going to happen, meetings and opportunities we're going to get in the future. Then I would also like to stress the importance of the local anchoring, which we have stressed. If we are to succeed, it must be local capacity building we focus on. So it requires local respect for the measures we put in place. It must be important in the long-term development policy, but also in the humanitarian work. Here is the contact with the Norwegian organisations of great importance. So it has been pointed out that, in response to climate change, we have reduced emissions very much in focus. There are ambitions in Norway, and that debate has taken place in other contexts. But we have less focus on the part of the climate panel's recommendation that is being adapted. That we have to have a big focus on it, has this message, I hope, contributed to. It's a tough challenge, because there are multiple dimensions that come together: how to adapt to the changes that we know will come, and how to build capacity for it. I think again we've got an enhanced capacity to do that job through the message. So I'd like to say a few things to points that have been up in the debate. For this with climate refugees: it is a demanding theme. It's quite right that it's been taken up and discussed, but we also have to discuss this with a degree of -- what to say -- accuracy and caution. The Committee asks the Government to take an initiative in the United Nations to define the concept of ‘climate refugees’. These are problematic aspects of it. There are usually several reasons why a person is running away. It is difficult to demonstrate that it is due to climate and environmental change. Most are not refugees, necessarily, they do not cross international borders, but are internally displaced in their own country, which is also a defining challenge. Consequently, they will not be covered by the Refugee Convention, which has also been pointed out by the Refugee Aid. Nevertheless, we need a wide-ranging debate on climate-related migration, and it is now in its initial phase. The UN Secretary-General, the Security Council, the General Assembly and the ECOSOC have committed themselves to this matter. We also need more knowledge and research on the new protection needs for foreign legislation in terms of what this development will lead to. The U.D. has supported an investigation of the Refugee Aid published today. It will form the basis for our dialogue with the UN on these issues, primarily with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and also the UN Coordination Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Activities, OSHA. The Committee also asks the Government to develop practical guidelines for seed rehabilitation in emergency situations. Let me comment on that. There are currently guidelines in this area, but they are not followed in practice. In order to raise awareness of the use of seeds in Norwegian humanitarian aid, the U.D., in cooperation with Caritas, organises a seminar on 14 May this year. Here we want to share experience in this area and discuss how Norwegian non-governmental organisations can apply existing guidelines in their work. Let me also say that the importance of the position of women and girls has been underlined here. It's a perspective government shares in full. Of course, there is Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security at the heart, and that is what we are going to do in this area. The Committee then wants the Government to actively contribute to the influence of other countries on changing national legislation in line with international disaster response law. That's a good point. Here I would like to refer to the 30th International Red Cross and Red Crescent Conference, in which governments also participate, which adopted a resolution on last year's consensus, which sets out guidelines to facilitate and regulate international assistance in the event of disasters, and which encourages countries to apply guidelines at national level. The Conference, as I said, consists of the International Red Cross Committee, the ICRC, the Red Cross League, all national associations and all parties to the Geneva Convention, including Norway, of course. The Red Cross League is now working to follow up this Decision by providing professional and financial assistance to selected countries to update their national legislation. Norway’s Red Cross has signalled that they will apply to the U.D. for support for this work, and that is what we are basically positive about. So let me say that I agree with the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party that we need to strengthen the UN's capacity for conflict resolution and peace-building. It is precisely the Norwegian Peace Building Resource Centre, NOREF, to contribute. So this is not a new Norwegian research centre. The main objective is to contribute to the planning and implementation of peace-building activities with the best available knowledge and expertise, and to the access of researchers and analysts to the knowledge acquired by operational personnel in the field. This will benefit both the UN and others. NOREF will be at the intersection of research and practical peace building. Although the centre is anchored in one institution, Fafo, it is open to close cooperation and wide-ranging contact with Norwegian and international environments. Finally, I don't really want to help tile up the broad consensus that is in the hall, but I want to join the representative Højbråten's observation of the progress party's small distance between whether the money follows a consensus in a setting. When I hear the representative, Høglund, I basically agree with him all the way. However, I am at the same time sitting in the 2008 alternative budget, and it has extensive cuts. Aid for Africa was cut by 88 p.m., aid for Asia cut by 98 p.m., aid for the Middle East cut by 60 p.m., aid for Latin America cut by 85 p.m., etc. Transitional assistance is also a central theme - with a cut of 72 p.m., the UN with a cut of 61 p.m. and multilateral financial institutions with a cut of 85 pst. Well, here the money also speaks in terms of what you're willing to put in to follow up the policy. But the point of this article was to give commendation to the Committee for giving a good attitude and providing a good basis for further work on this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e628	I will not contribute to extending the debate, but I believe that this is a rather important message, which really deserves a broader debate than what we have had here today. It's an incredibly important message, and I'm very pleased with the broad consensus the committee has developed in its comments. It's important. The message has a very correct focus - it focuses on prevention. Thinking prevention is always more appropriate than driving firefighting once the damage has occurred, whether in the field of justice policy, health policy or development policy. I am therefore very pleased that we have received this message that focuses so strongly on our ability to contribute to the prevention of humanitarian crises. It is important because we know that international society is increasingly facing situations where vulnerable countries are affected by conflict and natural disasters. It is necessary to focus on what we can do to prevent these humanitarian crises, to be the leader was instead of trying to help repair when the accident is first out. We also have good opportunities to do this. It is not that humanitarian crises arise by themselves and strike arbitrarily. We have knowledge of the conditions that exist where there is a humanitarian crisis. Poverty, hunger, health epidemics, drought and other environmental problems, war, are all factors that create humanitarian crises. Humanitarian crises also reinforce these factors. Where there is water shortage due to drought, health epidemics, conflict are intensified or created due to lack of water, and people flee when crops fail, for example. Everything is related to everything that Gro said so precisely. I am very pleased that the Committee in its comments agrees that the very foundation of our development policy to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals will be one of the best and most correct prevention work we can do. World society has the knowledge of what it takes to do it. The challenge is whether we have the will to act, the will to increasingly think prevention instead of firefighting, as the message focuses on this. One example is that unfortunately, it is easier to mobilise the willingness to give in to states and to individuals when the damage and crisis have already occurred and images of hungry children roll over the TV screens, than when, for example, they do. Humanitarian organisations’ representatives warn against crop failure in the longer term and can in the future create a crisis. It's a challenge. The Communication focuses in particular on three factors that increase and will increase the number of crises, including climate change. Climate change, and in the future, has an important role to play in development. Climate change will lead to major destruction and disasters, especially, as mentioned in the report, for the weakest people in the world's weakest countries. There is no doubt that there is an important link between development and the climate and the environment. When UNDP launched the Annual Human Development Report in 2007, they focused on the impacts of climate change on human development. I would also recommend reading the International Alert report on vulnerable countries and how climate change reinforces and creates conflicts. While the billions of people living below the poverty line are the least responsible for the dramatic climate change, it is those who have to pay the highest price. The UN reports that 98 pst. of all environmental disasters from 2000 to 2007, most affected developing countries, and the lack of climate change protection mechanisms will weaken or lose large agricultural areas in the future. Climate change will, for example: cause production losses in sub-Saharan Africa to rise to 25 pst. in 2050 if the trend continues as it is today. The glaciers of Himalayas will continue to melt as a result of climate change. This will lead to reduced water flow in the major rivers of Southeast Asia, especially in the summer. It will again have great consequences for millions of people in Southeast Asia. The Nile in North Africa is also very vulnerable to climate change. In 2020, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates that between 75 million and 200 million Africans will be exposed to increased problems of water availability due to global warming. Major parts of Africa will become too dry for agricultural production. Thus, the greatest impacts of climate change are expected to come in areas of the world that already have limited climate and nature conditions, which are already suffering from it and which have the lowest available preparedness. We therefore have knowledge of the link between climate change, access to water, food production and safety, and the link between climate and health. We will have more water shortages and droughts, which will create hunger, refugee flows, conflict and spread of disease. That is why - if you are serious about the desire to prevent and prevent humanitarian crises - you have to accept that the climate is changing, that it is man-made, and that this requires both prevention and adaptation. I am very pleased that there is a red thread in the government's policy: the will of this communication to address the major challenges, to point to the steps that need to be taken if we are to be able to make our contribution to preventing humanitarian crises, to the recognition of the climate crisis, to take serious action on that will and to focus on the environment and climate in the long-term development policy, as well as in national environmental policy implementing concrete action on emissions. The message is important, as I said, because it focuses on prevention and not only on repair when the damage has occurred. We aim right when we say that the goal is for countries themselves to have the preparedness and resources needed to deal with disasters, and we aim right when our ambition is to contribute to eradicating poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e658	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e661	Nor shall I contribute to the extension of the debate, but only to arrange a good transition to the next case. We're going up to the countyman in the valley of Rome again. What he said was that something is finally happening here. He thought it was boring. He got what many of us have been working with aid, relief and disaster, have experienced, a kick. I think that in today's debate we have taken a definite indication that emergency aid should be put ahead of long-term planning and prevention. And not least with a foreign minister who has worked in the Red Cross, I am absolutely convinced that we have now achieved the right balance. This isn't to talk bad about help, but now we put this in the right context. And in relation to countyman Kielland, it has taken a little over 100 years. I thought it was a little good to celebrate. We also know that the Nobel Committee is giving the peace prize to wood planting and to microcredit. This confirms even more that this is linked to other policy developments. Of course, the resources need to be in place. So we know that in every county it's the county, the Red Cross, the People's Aids and the municipalities that organize this work. And in that organisational work, there can be a lot of good policy development around the country. Perhaps our most important contribution is to contribute to the politicisation of both conflicts and disasters, and then, of course, we have to put up with the money to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e672	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e688	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e697	In Northern Ireland, like many other places in Norway, there are many beautiful fjords and majestic mountains. But while the fjords used to be connected to towns and villages, they are now more of a barrier to daily traffic. One may be critical that everything continues to be more efficient, and many of us are ferenostalists who want to take a break on the ferry rather than run under the fjord in a tunnel. Then there is one reason why bridges and tunnels are celebrated with recordings, celebrations, fine-tuning people and Norwegian flags. It connects municipalities in common construction, employment and service regions, it makes business more competitive, and it makes access to cultural experiences and activities richer. I don't know if it's a parliamentaryly approved expression, but I have to admit that tolls are at this point a dork. But if we were in history to Krifast, it was a people's reaction to the mainland connection to Kristiansund and Frei. It was more like a popular demand for North Moravia to pay tolls for over 30 years to build new roads, bridges and tunnels to replace the four ferry connections Kvalvåg-Kvisvik, Tingvolll-Angvik, Vittense-Högset and Bergsøy-Högset. The alternative was ferries forever. The future was holiday-free day and night between Kristiansund and the rest of the North Sea and Romesdal. Krifast was a history of transportation in many ways. It was technological world records and creative funding. There were farsighted and willful people who fought this out. Both E39 Knutset-Högset and Rv. 70 Brunneset-Eygarden is a way to get to Krifast, and now these sections have an extended standard lift with each of their tunnels and road repairs. By continuing the project at Krifast, we link the region more together as a bus, work and service region. Overall, investment linked to the extension of the tolling period will lead to better conditions both for industry and for the inhabitants of the area. So this is of mutual benefit to both the city and the surrounding country, or to say it with a familiar touch: it makes the city and the country go hand in hand more often. Knutset-Högset was part of the original Krifast plan, and in its time was part of the premise that there was a deal about Krifast between all the municipalities that it applies. When it was taken out of the funding plan because of the security of revenue, it was like a postponement. There was a long delay, but fortunately the time has come to complete the Krifast project. Rv. 70 was not part of the original project, but it has been a strong local desire to take in the distance between Eyeland and Brunnesset, as per. date is a strangely fluctuated and humped part of one of the routes of administration to Krifast. What is new in relation to the expectations of an extension is a better discount scheme for bus passengers. It is a pleasure that the discount for bus passengers is at least 50 pst, which is the discount the buses get. This is, as I see it, a good measure for several reasons: it is cheaper for day commuters by bus that strengthens the basis for public transport it increases road safety by several bus take instead of driving a car that reduces climate emissions Finally, it may be appropriate to quote Odd Børretzen, as in the advertisement to pawn bottles, it says, ‘It’s not big, but it’s a little – for something big.’ As you can see, all games except for the Progress Party are opposite the extension. Otherwise, I refer you to the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e734	The store will probably deal with a toll case where new projects are hung on an old toll package. Existing tolling arrangements for Kristiansund and Frei's continental connections, Krifast, will be paid down before the summer of 2008 after 16 years of toll collection. From 1 September 1985, the traffickers with the ferries at Freifjorden paid 25 pst. the cancellation of the ferry ticket as a preliminary toll collection, so that there has actually been a period of more than 22 years with toll collection for the Krifast project. In this context too, toll financing is very unfortunate for a further four years, to a total of 26 years. Therefore, it is not correct when the supporters of this solution claim that the total toll period with the proposed extension is less than 20 years. It's not without reason that the Krifast expansion has put the senses into the boil in the North Mortar. This is another matter in which principles are broken, the principle that the State is responsible for the maintenance and construction of roads, also the financial responsibility, as stated in Section 20 of the Road Code. The principle that one does not extend a tolling period to finance new road projects is broken, a principle of fairness and a principle of fairness to the citizens and road users concerned. The principle of the usefulness of the project is broken, that those who pay will have direct benefits. This is where the evaluations are broken down by the bodies that have dealt with the project. For the project at E39, it is pointed out that the project was initially defined as part of the development, i.e. part of the infrastructure the tolling arrangements were intended to finance. In the case of rv. 70, the State Road Service is ready in its opinion: they do not suggest that the project be financed by tolls. It is highly understandable and the Progress Party shares that assessment. 20 pst. of those who pay tolls in today's toll station will benefit from this project. Half of the traffic on this parcel will not pay tolls, so it will be useful without paying. So many have to pay for the benefit of others. The Progress Party has noted that the Kristiansund Municipality, in municipal government decisions of 2 June 2005, has opposed the extension of the tolling period at Krifast. The Progress Party believes that toll financing is a violation of the NTP decision of the majority of the population on the principles of toll use. The Progress Party considers that it is in breach of the EU Toll Directive that Norway is obliged to comply with through the EEA Agreement. The party to the progress will therefore ensure that the decision in this case is appealed to the EEA Surveillance Authority, ESA. Total construction costs for both projects are 374 million. 2008-kr. Of this, 344 million is going to be. kr, i.e. 92 pst., are tolls, and for the project on E39, which is part of a European road, the toll is 100 pst. In addition to the financing contribution of 344 million. The drivers also have to pay 29 million tolls through tolls. DKK in total collection costs and interest expense of a total of 16 million. kr. The total bill for the drivers is 389 million. 2008-kr, i.e. more than the cost of building the two projects. Unfortunately, this is often the cost picture when driving tolls finance road construction. Toll financing is a very expensive form of funding for the drivers. It's expensive to buy a way to pay! The Government Parties and the Minister for Transport often refer to so-called local agreement on toll financing. There is political consensus through majority decisions in local government and county councils. The inhabitants are not asked. The Progress Party believes that this should be done if toll financing is to be used. We disagree with the Minister of Transport who refers to local referendums on such matters as 'dilution of democracy'. Toll financing intervenes in daily conditions for the inhabitants. It is reasonable for the citizens of the municipalities concerned to have their own opinion on the use of tolls. The Progress Party considers it undemocratic and regrettable that local decisions on the use of such funding are adopted without a referendum. The use of toll financing and the share of tolls in such projects has increased strongly during this government. Several projects are financed by 100 pst. tolls. All the games on Stortinget, with the exception of the Advance Party, have been in favour of this. The Progress Party wants public funding for public road networks. I will take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e760	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e763	The Arne Sortevik of the Progress Party spent a lot of time telling us that it's been 16 years, in fact 22 years, with toll collection on Krifast. Yes, how many years would it take if you hadn't made this a toll project and realized the Krifast project? Then we would have an eternal toll payment in the form of a ferry payment. I understand that this is a recognition that the Progress Party is also about to discover, so it will be exciting to follow it in the continuation. Another argument that the Progress Party continues to use is that tolls are an expensive method of financing. Yeah, that's right. As a rule, there are borrowing costs associated with toll projects. But it's not unusual for investments to be financed by loans in this society. And we see a lot of examples of that. The reason why you don't wait until you save the money before you finance it is that those who invest see that they will have more benefit from making a finance like that, so I don't think that the argument is so well connected. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this matter. She gave an excellent and customary presentation of the historical course. It was a pleasure to listen. I've been so interested in this project for so long that I actually remember the big torch train and the huge demand that came from people in Kristiansund and around to get just this toll project. It was actually this way, without going into the business of the historical presentation, that he, who was called the Krifast General, got the King's gold for the job, I think, that time. It wasn't petty. What was also the case was that Knutset-Högset, the tunnel through Gemnesachla that we're going to adopt today, was actually the best single element in the project, but it fell out because of course you had to get the bridges and the tunnels in place to get the whole thing. Therefore, it is only fair and proper that this project is now part of the Krifast solution. I think people in Gemenes have reason to rejoice, and that this finally becomes a reality. I want to focus on one aspect, and that is the commuting costs and disadvantages for commuters in the project. Now it is clear from the setting that you want to raise the passenger discount to 50 pst. In response to the Committee, the Council of State has replied that following the tariff regime for holiday relief projects that require busses not to pay on a route in toll projects is, of course, a measure to promote public transport and, in addition, perhaps to reduce the disadvantages of some of those who commute a lot. It would increase the collection period by at the base of two and a half months. I am aware that by introducing such an element in the form of a decision in the case, we might have postponed the case, and that was not desirable from the Right. At the same time, I have to say that I think this should be considered in the period you are now going into with the extended collection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e776	There's a lot of consensus in the committee about this setting, so I'm not going to use long speaking time. The case rapporteur has also explained the main points of the setting in a good way. On both sections, which are now being funded by an extended recovery period, it is important to get moving quickly. On the E39 Knutset-Högset some traffic accidents have occurred. The upgrade will also shorten this important road section. The stretch was, as we have heard earlier here today, also inside the original Krifast project. Halleraker was in on it. The project, etc. 70 Brunneset-Eygarden will also receive a solid upgrade of existing roads and 260 metres of walking and cycling, which is a very important road safety measure. The left has noticed the large local consensus, but has also noticed that the municipality of Kristiansund has opposed the project. Despite the reluctance in Kristiansund, the Left believes that it is of great importance to start repairing these road sections as quickly as possible, and that an extension of the toll collection period is the most realistic way to achieve this quickly. Rehabilitation of these road sections will also, in the view of the Left, strengthen Kristiansund as a regional centre, as the surrounding region becomes closer to the city. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important for the Left to organise well in this setting for public transport, as the rapporteur said, in order to reduce emissions and to prevent road accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e789	I was present when Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland opened Krifast in 1992. It was a great day for both local politicians and regional politicians. Local fire brigades had carried out the project in both accomplice and adversities for many years - both in the municipalities, in municipal policy and in county policy. The expectations we had for Kristiansund City and the surrounding area to be connected more closely through this mainland connection are far on the way. We have got a region that is growing significantly in many areas, where Krifast has been of great importance. With the possibilities now offered by the decision taken in Stortingen today, this positive development will still be able to speed up. The solution proposed by the Government, extending the toll collection period in order to finance the rest of the Krifast project in the municipality of Gämnes and forcing the necessary investments in relation to RV parcels. 70 through, for example: Tingvoll municipality, is very good. I mean, the last deal with taking rv. 70 has been more than updated after the regrettable decision taken in More and Romesdal County, that rv. After the consultation in the context of the national transport plan, it appears that priority could be given. Therefore, it is very important that the Storting today actually gives a clear signal that something should be done with this way. We are very pleased with the toll financing that the Council of State has courageously provided. This means that when looking at later investments related to RV. 70, you might have to see what you're doing today, in the context of actually wanting something with a way that's a lifesaver for the region. I understand, of course, that critical voices have risen against an extended toll period, because both individuals, commuters and businesses have paid high tolls for a long time. As mentioned earlier in the debate, the realities related to the lack of road appropriations in relation to local wishes have made it impossible to invest in improvements in R & D. 70, so that the possibility we now have, we have to seize. An extended toll collection is important. A strong improvement in road standards will also benefit the critics. All in all, you're left with only winners after today's decision. Road standard on parts of rv. 70, Kristiansund-Oppdal, is such that traffic is actually rejected. There are joyous things happening in the port development of Kristiansund. The port and facilities there are beginning to have a major impact on the region. Rv. 70 is a vital trajectory into and out of town. It is therefore important for continued positive port development. Finally, I have to add that if the initiators of a new and exciting direct ferry link between Kristiansund and the United Kingdom succeed, a good road network in the region will be one of the key factors for the appropriate transport of people and goods. I would like to congratulate the Committee and the European Parliament on the decision we have now laid the foundations for. It's both important and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e806	Kristiansund and Frei’s continental connections were opened for traffic in 1992, which we have heard in several speeches today. So, the existing toll system will be paid down before the summer of 2008 after 16 years of toll collection, as stated. The toll company has applied for an extension of the limitation period at Krifast to finance the projects E39 Knutset-Högset in the municipality of Gämnes and Rv. 70 Brunneset-Øygarden in Tingvoll municipality in Møre and Romesdal. The project on E39 between Knutset and Högset was part of the original Krifast project's supply path. When dealing with the matter, the Transport Committee recommended that the project be withdrawn from the financing plan due to uncertainties surrounding the income development of the Krifast boom. The startup was delayed pending an overview of the traffic development through the toll station. Traffic through the toll station has increased in recent years. The new project will solve some of the E39s that have bad curves, and some of them will fail. The project on rv. 70 between Brunneset and Eyegarden was not part of the original Krifast project. The road shall be upgraded to the standard common road and a new footpath shall be built at the Eyegarden. Both projects will contribute to a significant rise in the standard of the two parcels, which has also been pointed out by the majority of the Transport and Communications Committee. The cost of the project E39 Knutset-Height is estimated at approximately 164 million. kr, whereas the estimate of the cost of the project rv. 70 Brunneset-Eygarden is about 210 million. kr. The project is mainly funded by tolls through an extension of the existing Krifast collection scheme. In addition, a base of 30 million has been added. kr in government funds for the project on rv. 70 for the period 2010-2013. Toll collection has to be extended by about three years and ten months to finance both projects. Working on the route Knutset-Högset is scheduled to start this year during the autumn, while the work on the Brunnesset-Øygarden section can start in 2009. The planned rehabilitation work in the Freifjord tunnel could affect traffic through the toll station and thus also toll revenue. This is the big deal in the toll billing. Rehabilitation work is expected to last for one and a half years. Since it is known that the rehabilitation of the Freifjord tunnel will be carried out and that this will have consequences for the toll collection, it has been foreseen that the additional costs of the toll company will be covered by the extension of the collection period. This means that the toll company cannot claim reimbursement from the State to cover the additional costs, as the standard agreement suggests. I have noticed that the plans for the project on Rv. 17 have changed since the county had matters for handling. However, I have stressed that it is a local policy desire to continue the Krifast collection system to finance both the project on E39 and Rv. 70, and it is an expressed condition that both projects are realised. I have also stressed that More and Romsdal states support the scheme, and that the chairman and spokespersons of Kristiansund, Frei, Tingvoll and Gemnes in their own letters have stated that they do not see any reason for any new handling of the cases in the municipalities or in the county. After an overall assessment, I have therefore supported the local policy decisions of the county council on the full development of Rv. 70 Brunneset-Eygarden. Such an assessment is also supported by the majority of the Committee. I am glad that the majority find that the upgrade of also rv. 70 will have a positive effect for Kristiansund as a regional centre. Furthermore, I am pleased that the majority welcome the fact that the extension of the Krifast project will help to strengthen the whole Nordmøre and More and Romesdal as a common labour, bus and service market. I have noticed that the majority ask the department to participate in an assessment to increase the discount for bus passengers from 17 pst. up to a minimum of 50 pst. This will be followed up. I am pleased that the Committee has joined the Government's proposal on the extension of toll collection on Kristiansund and Frei's mainland link - Krifast - to finance the projects E39 Knutset-Högset and Rv. Brunneset-Eygarden.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e829	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e832	The Council of State has stated that referendums are part of the watering down of local democracy, and that there must also be referendums in other areas, has been the argument for not going for referendums. But is it not that real democracy is at the lowest possible level, that people themselves are allowed to say what they mean? It has, for example, has been a city council decision in Kristiansund, where it has been said no. There has been a referendum in the local press in More and Romesdal that showed that 75 pst. would like to say no toll financing and continuation. Is it true that the Council of State will only listen to the local initiatives that are in line with her own views, while all other views she chooses not to take into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e840	I think that we in Norway have a good democracy, a representative democracy, where the inhabitants choose their trustees and wives, who get to decide on different issues - popular and non-popular issues. Tolls are probably among the more demanding for local politicians. It was a clear intention that both projects should be expanded if a local toll financing company should go in. It's been an important part of the assessment that we've been doing. The fact that a local political level also showed that a non-needed new political rounds - there was also the spokesman in Kristiansund - I took as a sign that one could accept such a solution as she has now chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e847	I would like to ask the Council of State about a matter I brought up in my inlet, namely this with the rate regulator for the ferry relief project. It says that collective means of transport, on-road buses, do not pay for passage, nor do passengers. We dealt with not so long ago another toll issue where we also made exceptions in relation to that regulation. With regard to the many companies that follow the regulation, it turns out that if I don't remember wrong, it's three-four projects - and that's about. 10 pst. - which continues to pay for passengers following collective means of transport. Does it not seem to the Council of State that it could be an idea that, in the projects that remain, we should do this so that we can promote public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e856	I agree with the committee's plurality that one must try to agree on a system where travellers, that is, public transport, do not have to pay tolls. Going back to all the projects that have been decided upon, as the representative knows, has its pages. It will probably mean a full, new handling of the cases to change the criteria of the toll collection. And then the question is, without I have an overview of the individual project here, whether the gain is proportional to all the work that will result in such new rounds. But I've noticed what the committee has been busy about here, and for the upcoming toll project, this is an element that we're going to look for in advance because the cases are being put forward and try to find a solution to the toll company.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e863	It might be tempting to ask further about the Council of State's strange view of referendum as a dilution of local democracy, but I'm going to leave it to ask for reasonableness. I assume that the department and, not least, the Council of State carry out some reasonable considerations regardless of what has been agreed at local and county level. In this case, there are three reasonable considerations that I am asking the Council of State to comment on. One is the length of the toll period. So you're going to have to collect more than 26 years. Is it reasonable that road users should pay so long for their jobs? Is it reasonable to extend existing tolling schemes with new projects? This is not the first time it is done, but it is now done again in this case. Is that reasonable? And is the reasonable relationship related to the utility of this case? This is especially true for rv. 70, where 20 pst. of those who pay, will be useful, while 50 pst. by those who use new parcels, will actually use the road without paying.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e876	The currently being treated project is a new project. It's related to the Krifast project, which ended in ours. There is a new project under four years old. There is also a project that is strongly desired locally. I notice that the Progress Party has a high tab in its resistance to tolls, but it's hard to see any alternative. Kristiansund had today had four ferry connections if unforeseen politicians had got the Krifast project up. I wonder how many other roads that had never been built had the Progress Party been in control. There is nothing in the history of the past years that suggests that where the Progress Party has power, there will be more money for transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e883	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e888	The Council of State concluded with the representative Halleraker from the Right started his speech, the rhetorical question of what would happen if you didn't go in for the tolls that all of the other parties here are in favour of, and that the Progress Party is opposed. Of course we would get road development then as well. With the policies of the Progress Party, we would actually have much more road development in Norway. It is precisely here that one of the major lines between the policies of the Progress Party and the use of financial instruments on the one hand and on the other hand the refusal of the other parties to use these instruments goes. Of course, we can build roads in Norway without financing them with tolls, without expanding existing toll projects, without doing it in such an expensive way. Then I come to the second point of the representative Halleraker from the Right, who used a good part of his contribution to comment on the proposals and policies of the Progress Party and not Right-wing support for the use of tolls and toll-funded projects. It is and becomes an expensive method of financing. It is and will be unreasonable for the inhabitants of this country, in different regions and in different regions, to run a crown roll for a crooked country. The state has money in buckets and buckets, and in our view, it is only a matter of political will to use the budgetary instruments and financial tools that exist, if you like. Road construction is investment. Spending money on road projects and road construction is investing. A good road lasts 50 years, at least. We need to deal with investment projects in infrastructure and transport systems in a completely different way from the one on which we deal with annual expenditure in the annual government budget. The Progress Party is currently alone in using other financial instruments. They exist: it is possible to allocate money to infrastructure funds; it is possible to grant government loans to road companies that want to build roads; and it is possible to cover the costs of shooting for those who receive government loans. I can make the list longer. Project funding is also a good tool if you want to build new roads and better roads in Norway without expanding existing toll projects, without doing so in such an expensive way for all road users as the toll financing entails.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e901	This is a joyous day for Northern Moravia. That's the best we could do. We all know in the hall that we can't build paths for TV billions. It's completely impossible to get it done. So there's a lot of positive from the state councils and from the committee here on this with a discount system. Can we build on what's good here? Can we use the imagination even more when it's up to us to introduce that, for example. are there most passengers in cars? Can you imagine that a day might actually be deducted for each passenger? Today, the more passengers you have in the car, the more plus and more expensive it will be! In our county, which is the largest ferry state in the country, we have had a project where it has our free for passengers. This has been a success. This is what people like. This has caused one to receive a buddy run, etc. There are a lot of environmental perspectives in this. That state council says about the assessment of discounts, promises very well, so I hope that it follows up in a good way. The party of progress has a point when it comes to popularism, because popularism is the most outer form of good popular government. But if I am asked when I come to the North Moravia, when I come to Krifast, if I want to travel for free, I will of course say yes. It's not all that's good enough to have a referendum about, but they can have a point when it comes to getting local legitimacy for what we do. We have to be more inventive when it comes to getting this in place, but folklore won't be a good solution, at my discretion, because it'll be a too simple question. There is no doubt that the people of Bergsøya are struggling with this decision. I hope that the schemes that come, with extra discounts, etc., will also benefit them, because there is no doubt that they will be most strongly affected by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e912	Since I disagreed with the Progress Party in my previous post, I will be able to express my agreement this time: Road construction is investment! And I could add that ferry dependency, with all of its negative elements, is the opposite. It inhibits development and creates competitive inequality. That's why we're a lot of people who have discovered that if we're able to find solutions that allow us to get rid of ferry transport - which is yesterday's mode of transport for both business and good people - then there are opportunities. That's the one you've been using, among other things. the project we are dealing with today. I also resonated in relation to debt financing for just such projects. That reasoning remains fairly good. And I have good hope after attending the same conference as the Vice-President of the Progress Party, who said that he had now also seen this dimension and thought this was a sensible way to proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e919	It's starting to come up with some interesting and polite recordings in the end of the debate. I think Jacobsen's input is interesting. It is good that we are actually given the support that referendum is a sensible measure. But then he says that in this case and in this kind of case, it's a little too simple -- it's a little too simple. We agree that it is important to have these kinds of referendums, that people are of course aware of what you are voting for or against, and what the consequences are. But maybe a little bit different from the representative Jacobsen, I believe that people know what the consequences are if you pick one or the other. From the point of view of the Progress Party and what Mr Sortevik has said, you have the opportunity, if you want, and we have the political tools. We have the funds if we want a truly offensive state investment in road construction and transport in this country. I would like to say to the representative of Mr Halleraker, who was on the national road and ferry routes, that the Progress Party and the Central Party are in agreement. We want that where you still need to have a ferry connection to be part of the road network, and therefore to be free of charge. That is why we want free ferries. There we're completely in line with the Center Party, so I hope that the Council of State will soon get there that you can take away the costs of the motorists that depend entirely on using the ferry connections. It should be free.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e926	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e944	The background to this interpellation is the ongoing debate on changes in food supply due to financial savings in hospitals, on closed maternity wards and on the lack of midwife preparedness and follow-up service in municipalities for the summer. Both of these conditions will lead to a worse offer to pregnant and birthing people in many places in the country and are referred to by many professionals as both unworthy and irresponsible. When the Right took this up with the Council of State in the Questionnaire on 9 April, she replied that we blackwashed the situation. But unfortunately we don't. Being pregnant and giving birth is one of the great experiences of our lives. At the same time, it could be one of the most vulnerable periods we can experience. Therefore, the experience of safety, predictability and safety is crucial for the course of birth, for the medical outcome and for the birth experience. Women are entitled to good maternity care, a safe food supply and a good offer of support and assistance during maternity. Good experiences through this important period of life are essential to ensuring good health for mother and children, and thus a good start to family life, because not only a child is born, but a whole new family. It is in this perspective that we must plan and organize the offer for pregnant and pregnant women and their families. The incidence of complications, injuries and deaths associated with pregnancy and childbirth is very low in Norway compared with other countries. Despite this, it is still a challenge to ensure a satisfactory offer for women across the country. The report of the National Health Authority’s nationwide monitoring of food supply shows that poor organisation and poor routines lead to failure in many places. Studies of the community midwife service show that maternity care, preparedness and follow-up services are inadequate throughout the country, especially in the districts. In addition, both professional organisations and user organisations report the lack of continuity and completeness of the offer as a problem. The size of the population in the treatment of the emergency response in 2001 decided that there should be a differentiated and decentralised food supply in Norway. Furthermore, a unanimous increase was made in order to ask the government, for professional reasons, to make the leveling of food institutions by the State Health Authority valid for the planning and organisation of birth aid. The majority decided to ask the government to set up a National Council for Paternity Care to assist the maternity wards in this work and to advise the Minister of Health. The National Council for Paternity Care was established in 2001 and was mandated in 2002. Since 2002, the Council, which has been made up of the country’s leading professionals in the field, has made considerable efforts to ensure the quality of maternity and maternity care. However, in the autumn of 2007, the Council took up its duties in protest. They pointed out in their final report that the Storing Decision on the birth offer had not been followed up by the Government, and referred to a difficult dialogue with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. This applies in particular to maternity wards which have too low birth rates in relation to the Health Authority’s professional recommendations. As a result, the Council considered that there are grounds for asking questions about whether some food supply is being properly operated. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State about the background and what is the reason why the decision and advice of the country's leading professionals to ensure a professionally sound food supply has not been followed up in the last two or three years. In the light of the significant migration challenges in health businesses, economically justified changes in the supply of food are now being made, leading to a lower supply, some of which are referred to as unworthy and irresponsible. As an example, I will refer to St. Olav's Hospital, which has decided to close a maternity ward evening, night and weekends. As a result, the total capacity of feeding places and personnel is reduced. In addition, we know that there are most births in June, July and August. Orkdal shuts down the maternity ward for eight weeks this summer, and the birthplace in Ørland is laid down. midwives and some doctors at the department warn against this and believe that this may lead to increased pressure on artificial birth acceleration and thus increased risk of complications. This is very serious and, of course, unacceptable. Food supply declines qualitatively when the number of births increases and capacity and manpower decreases. For St Olav's Hospital's part, according to management, this will be a more or less permanent situation, not just in connection with the summer vacation settlement. Corridor sites have also been provided in three places in the department where the birthers may be awaiting birth and moving between wards due to night closure while they are in childbirth. I'd like to ask the council if she thinks this is a worthy maternity care. When we also know that the number of births in the last three years at St Olav's Hospital has increased by 400 without increasing the midwife's crew, on the contrary, it should now be cut, there should not be much insight to understand that this is unsustainable in length. But the midwives extend far. They are loyal and provide for the sake of the midwives, but show that the workload is considerable. However, doctors have been recruited for several years in addition to what has been authorised by the National Council for Medical Distribution, according to the hospital director at St Olav's Hospital. In other words, it may seem that there is an overstaffing of doctors, but a understaffing of midwives, who take care of all midwives and births. But no doctoring has been proposed reduced, and I would like to hear what the Council of State thinks about this relationship. I have now used the maternity ward at St. Olav’s Hospital as an example, but there are clear signs that there are similar conditions in many food departments around the country. In the metropolitan area, Oslo, Akershus and Østfold, the birth departments are sized for 16,200 births in 2006, while the actual number of births was 18,615. Many women who are already in childbirth are rejected at the maternity wards where they were originally given room, and must be transported to other hospitals in the region. A study from a maternity ward in Stockholm, where there was too little capacity, showed that women with rhymes who were throwing balls between the maternity wards had more complications and needed more pain relief. There is no reason to believe that the situation is different for Norwegian women. Yesterday it was found that the Rikshospital must also save, and that despite the fact that in its 2008 mission paper, the Federal Council of State opened up with fire and bram less than a year ago, it could be closed down due to economic cuts, despite the fact that the Council of State was clear that there should still be a differentiated birth offer and that there must be a low-risk offer and a comprehensive offer at all food departments. I would like to ask the Council of State what she thinks about the possible closure of the Federal Republic of Germany, and how it is now going to work to differentiate the care of the child. The Norwegian Earthquake Association and the Liv Lege user organisation have pointed out that women in active birth have been left to themselves as a result of inadequate staffing at the maternity wards. The right considers that national guidelines must be drawn up to ensure that women in active birth have qualified birth helpers in place if they wish to do so, in order to meet the need for safety and to reduce the risk of complications. I ask the Council of State to be clearer and to make clearer demands to regional health companies that there should be no economically motivated transitions leading to a poorer supply of food. Summer - bound maternity wards lead to long travel distances and insecurity for many women in the districts. This problem is exacerbated by the lack of adequate follow-up services and reduced or absent preparedness of midwives. The right considers that the Minister of Health and Health must oblige regional health businesses to ensure that food supplies are kept open as far as possible even during holidays. That's when it's most births. If it is completely impossible to ensure proper operation during the holiday run-up, health care establishments must, in cooperation with the municipalities, ensure midwife preparedness and follow-up service for all birthers who have more than one hour of travel to the maternity ward. Most of the birth aid is good, but it is still unworthy and, according to professionals, also to some extent irresponsible conditions in some places. The Council of State must now ensure that there is sufficient capacity in the supply of food in relation to the number of births, both in the Oslo region, in the Trondheim region and also in other food departments. Economic savings and cuts may not be at the expense of safety, safety and care. And my question is quite simply: what will the Council of State actually do to prevent that from happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e978	Pregnant women throughout the country must have safe and predictable birth and maternity services. It also applies to pregnant women who are scheduled for the summer months, when employees are on vacation. In the spontaneous Question Time on 9 April, I explained my work to ensure that the closure time at the country's food departments is as short as possible this summer, and that no food departments are to be closed for economic reasons alone. This year, there will be fewer summer-related food establishments than it was last year. Let me first comment on the current situation at St. Olav's Hospital, as the interpellant was in. I can assure you that I am following that situation very closely and I am in close dialogue with Health Mid-Norway. I can inform you about the following: There is a weekly assessment of the situation and capacity of St Olavs Hospital in the provision of food.There will be a larger evaluation in the middle of May.The capacity of St Olavs Hospital should be seen in the context of the planned summer closure in Orkdal. The unit at St Olav's Hospital as per is now closed, can be reopened if necessary. I can assure them that these women will be confident that they will receive a good quality supply of birth and maternity throughout the summer. As I said, I follow this matter very carefully. In the case of the Narvik maternity ward, which has also received a lot of attention, I am pleased that the health care company in North Norway will keep the Narvik maternity ward open all summer if it is professionally sound. This is particularly important in places in our country where there are long distances between food establishments, as is the case, for example. in Narvik. When one occasionally has to stop for employees to get a vacation, it shall be for the shortest possible time. In such cases the birthers shall be informed in good time in advance. The follow-up service must be in place and a system must be set up in cases where it must be closed for short periods of time. I'm following this closely. Women must be safe throughout pregnancy and childbirth, whether summer or winter. When the Stortinget dealt with the emergency notification in 2001, the level of care of the Health Authority was, as is well known, used as a basis for planning and organising maternity care in Norway. This meant that the number of births at the food institution should determine the level of the institution. That means whether it's going to be a female clinic, a maternity ward or a maternity ward. Despite the changes after 2001, 10 pst. of all births in 2006 at births with fewer births than indicated by the Storting. In brackets note: it has happened under changing governments. As is well known in several places, conversions of small maternity wards to feeding rooms have been met with strong resistance not only from local professionals and local politicians, but also from central politicians and local people. The size also decided, as you know, to set up a national obstetrics council, with a multi-annual term of office. The Council was to assist in the conversion, quality assurance and evaluation of operations in the context of the organisation of decentralised and differentiated birth care. The quality of maternity care in Norway is very high internationally. We are among the countries with the lowest rate of serious harm or death in mother and child at birth. But also with us there are unfortunately undesirable events that show that maternity, maternity and maternity care can - and I would say should - be improved in some important areas. We have to make sure that the offer is safe enough, accessible enough and of high professional quality at all stages. We have some specific challenges, including: related to the provision of midwifery in some municipalities and to the provision of accompanying services. There are shortages in maternity services, and we have some special challenges in childbirth care in some districts and in some of the major maternity wards. We have, among other things, as we also see it, still a little bit of a way to go before we have an overall service of good quality everywhere in the country. For this reason, the Government will present a major message to address the future organisation and structure of comprehensive maternity, maternity and maternity care in the primary and specialist health services, including the accompanying service. I will build the proposals in the message on the principles of food supply as described in the National Health Plan 2007-2010: ‘Food provision for low-risk births’... ‘must be available, decentralised in most local hospitals and as part of the local hospital function of the major hospitals. In addition, feeding rooms should be located outside hospitals where the distances are large. Continuity and safety of women are characteristic of high-quality maternity and maternity care. It is therefore necessary to pay attention to the need to provide a coherent maternity and maternity service.’ An important theme in the message will also be how to ensure selection by the smaller food departments, so that risk-bearing people are taken care of where there is proper competence. The quality will be what I think we have to be most concerned about. The government is planning to submit this global notification for the current year. Here I want to give the Storting feedback on the situation seven years after the decision on the leveling of food institutions. I would also like to put forward proposals on how health authorities can best ensure the quality of food establishments. The nationwide supervision of food institutions in 2004 showed no clear correlation between the size of the food institution and the number of deviations and observations. It is therefore appropriate to consider, as the Government sees, whether better quality objectives can be established than the specified limits for the number of births. I understand that professional environments and user organisations are impatient to see results, including politicians in this room. I can assure you that I am, too, and I can assure you that the necessary conversion processes within the maternity care system will continue on a regular basis independently of the work on the message. Last year 28 500 girls and 30,000 boys were born in Norway. Fortunately, fertility among Norwegian women is stable and among the highest in Europe. That is, every Norwegian woman on average gives birth to 1.9 children. Every birth is a big and important event for all families. Good and equivalent health care for pregnant and pregnant women is therefore of great importance for all. I believe that the experience of users is a significant contribution to the overall competence of healthcare. We put the government's emphasis on maintaining the user perspective in everything we do. I would therefore like to consider bringing representatives from the users to the new National Council for Paternity Care. The new Council will play an important role in the work on the professional basis of the message, and they will be important advisers. I would like to invite the Stortinget to a wide-ranging debate on how to jointly ensure that the provision of food to future women is safe, accessible enough and of high quality wherever they live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1030	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is a broad consensus that we should have safe and good conditions for pregnant and pregnant women. It's actually ten years, April 20, since I had a corresponding interpellation. At the time, the representative of Storing Brustad and I were together on measures to improve maternity and maternity care, and it has helped to improve in a number of areas. But as the Council of State was also involved, it is still a good thing to go to get a qualitative good both maternity, maternity and maternity care. What I'm now worried about -- not just me, but the whole food Norway, to use that expression -- is that many of the good measures and many of the plans that are now in the process of being reversed because of the economic cuts at the hospitals, which are now affecting the food departments too fully. I don't think the Council of State gave a good answer to what she will do in relation to the health companies, the hospitals, who are now cutting in the supply of the food departments and reducing the manning and capacity of the period of the year in which most children are actually born. I am pleased that the Council of State now announces a big message about maternity and maternity care. She has announced for almost two and a half years that there will be a strategy. It's not going to be anything, it's going to be a big message. And getting a good debate here in Stortinget on these questions will probably be so useful. I asked the Council of State if she could comment on a proposal for a possible closure of the Federal Republic of Oslo, if she would accept that it will happen, just for economic reasons. It would really be to take a lot of steps back as the Storting has adopted a differentiated birth care, and that the Council of State itself in its governance documents to health companies has also been very concerned that this needs to be put into place. I mentioned one more thing, and it was a proposal that women who have more than one hour's travel to the maternity ward - if they want it and it is necessary - be given a statutory right to follow-up. I would like to get feedback on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1043	I fully agree that there is a way to go, and it seems that there is quite a broad consensus on that. The involvement of the representative, Sjöli and I, in this matter for many years, is still at hand. I also think that the representative has some constructive proposals, and that is why it is important to get a big message so that we can have a wide debate. So I've made it clear that there are some changes we have to make. We can't now lean back and just wait for the crash message. It's clear that there are some places in the country where the situation is more acute, to use that expression, and that we have to get back to. In the case of summer closures, it has been clearly notified that departments should not be closed for financial reasons alone. I have stated several times that in some contexts I have experienced that it has been a little too easy to shut down maternity wards. That's also the background that there are at least three places that last year had closed, which this year is going to be open. There may also be adjustments in some more departments. In the case of St Olav's Hospital in particular, there is something I follow very closely, and I feel that those who work there are also very «on the alert» in relation to it. So it definitely follows up. When it comes to the issue of the Federal Republic of Germany, during the Rikshospitalet, I have to look into it a little bit more. What I'm familiar with is that unfortunately, it hasn't been as much used as you would have wanted and expected. It might be related to a lot of things. I believe one reason, among other things. may be that the offer has not been placed on the market as well. I will not conclude on this and now, I have to look into that matter in more detail. So to this with follow-up service. I can't stand here and now and say just how we'll conclude on how far away from a food institution you need to be in order to get a statutory follow-up service. What I still think, at least, is that in those parts of the country where there are long distances - without me locking myself to one hour - it is obvious that if departments have to stay closed because of vacations, for employees also have to have vacations, but for the shortest possible period, then there has to be an accompanying service, so that the birthers can be sure that they are guaranteed good quality if they have to move a piece of farm. But the main answer is that we have to try to avoid summer connections. At least we have to make time as short as possible in those parts of the country where there are long distances between the food institutions, and then we have to have a follow-up service if one has to go far anyway. Then we get back to just where that limit is going, when we come up with our big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1058	The interpellant addresses many important issues related to maternity care. As the Council of State says, this is a joyful event and a great event in most people's lives. There's going to be something people shouldn't worry about and look at as a stress situation--just what the interpellant is talking about. The safety of birth and maternity care, the entire setting, is important. I understand that threats of summer closure and closure are causing those who are going to give birth, severe plagues and a lot of stress. It's natural. Taking care of the good offers we have, both the small and the large, is important - be it food departments, feeding rooms or other solutions - but it is also important to have a review, so that we get good quality. We have talked a lot about the quality of this pulpit, and the quality of birth care is also important, precisely to ensure the safety of those who are going to be born. The announcement of cancellation that the Council of State is notifying will include this and take care of what is good. We are looking forward to a big message, which the Council of State has thus announced. We also look forward to user representatives participating in such a debate. We believe that user representatives can make an important contribution to the debate, that they can make good sense and be premiscuous. They have skills and many great experiences that we can use, so what the Council of State now warns, our fraction looks very positive. How we can both take care of the good offers we have, and develop them further, must be part of the debate in the context of the Great Britain Communication. But I also believe, of course, that we have to keep working on this until the big news comes, because it's not like the maternity care that is per. Today, we can rest until we get a message. We still have to work to get the best possible quality in the maternity care that is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1069	First of all, I want to give the interpellant recognition for having taken up the theme she has actually done. It's a very important topic, which is also discussed at regular intervals in this room. There is good reason to believe that food supply in Norway has never been better. We have very good offers, we have many offers, we have different offers, and we have offers in most of the kingdom. Fortunately, child mortality in Norway is very low, as is the number of birth injuries - in both children and mother. This is very positive. But it should really just be missing, because things are going on, technology is getting better, knowledge and competence is getting better, and we're finding new ways of doing things. However, there is reason for some concern when looking at the signals and proposals - I repeat, proposals - to measures that are now being promoted to save money. It's getting closer in the summer, and the summer is like saying high season for new proposals on summer-bound food departments. So, of course, it remains to see how many of these are realized. At least I very much appreciate the signals that the Council of State has made here, that it will be fewer this year, and that it will not be the economy alone that will be decisive to shut down a maternity ward this summer. The question is, of course, all the time: what is ‘economy alone’? If it is that you don't want to spend more money, among other things. to pick up subs, it could also be an argument. It's important that we have these things with us. The Council of State has also indicated that there is no more money available to health businesses now, which means that the health care system needs to be more efficient in the current year, with about a quarter of the total. SEK 1.5 billion. It's solid. There's reason to believe exactly what we're now seeing, that this could also hit some of the food supplies that we have around the realm. It is important for future parents to take advantage of a food supply, to have the security of knowing it is relatively short distance, or to get help when you need help. I have to say that as a newly-baked father -- quite a few years ago now -- it was very important to know that if there was something you wondered about, if you felt insecure, well, you had professionals to whom you could easily get access, and who were there to assist you. When you get into a situation where you're very insecure -- especially when you're first born -- that security is very important. Governments have said that there will be fewer summer-related departments. The question is, of course, how many are there? The Council of State has provisionally referred to three. It remains to be seen, but it is important that we have a great deal of focus on this matter. The main focus here, and what's important, is just the situation out in the district. I don't think the problems are big in the cities. I think it's relatively easy and easy to get solutions in place. The problem is, for example: Finnmark, where there are large distances to the food supply, is completely dependent on the provision of the accompanying service at the bottom, in cooperation with municipalities and midwifery. That's the part we have to work very well with, so that even those in the districts can feel some of the same security as those who live in more densely populated areas, actually do. There are our challenges. Because, as I said, I don't believe that you, for example. in Oslo, the major problems associated with the closure of departments and the smoking of personnel, but I am asking the Council of State to focus on the long distances in the district, so that they also have the security they need - even in the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1091	Cuts in maternity wards, summer-related food supply and lack of midwifery services lead to insecurity for nurturing women across the country. The last time we in the Right took this up with the Minister, April 9, she replied that the Right Black-Painted situation. Since then, I have visited several hospitals and several maternity wards, and to say it that way, I do not feel that the accusations of the Council of State against the Right correspond to reality - no, on the contrary. There are many food supplies that are being closed in summer, and the consequence is a very long journey for natives in the district. Although the Council of State now says that women who have a long way to the birthplace should be given follow-up service, that is not the reality of the birthing people around the district of Norway. From the right, we take these messages seriously. We know that safety and good care are very important for the pregnant woman and her family. When hospitals now save a few million by cutting food supplies, women and children have to pay the price in terms of insecurity and risk of health damage. In the Right's view, this is a bad health policy, and we cannot live with that situation. The right has asked the Council of State to take responsibility for improving the supply of births. The Council of State reiterates from the pulpit today that the summer closure of maternity wards should not be for economic reasons. I therefore find it strange that the maternity ward at Orkdal Sjukehus is shut down as a result of the department being faced with two alternatives: either to walk with reduced staff throughout the rest of the year, or to close for eight weeks - even though the employees have only four weeks of vacation. Does the Council of State nevertheless state itself claim that summer closure has nothing to do with financial savings? Several have mentioned the food situation in Central Norway, at St Olav's Hospital. It's worrying. The Council of State said that the offer of birthing women is not to be hit because of economics, and that the distribution of bias is not corrected by the Government. When you first put down a food supply in the Orland, you close the maternity wards at Orkdal Sjukehus, you close a ward at St. Olav's Hospital, and the number of births goes up, I don't understand that you can say that the food supply is just as good. That's not understandable! I want the Council of State to explain this and to assure the Government that it is not now beginning to move dangerously close to the limit of what is proper maternity care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1104	I would first like to thank the interpellant for putting a very important item on the agenda. It's a reality that savings go out on women and children. We saw it last summer, and I'm afraid it might be just as bad this year. Let's hope it doesn't. We hear about children’s wards that are being closed, about maternity wards that will also be closed this summer for several weeks. Let me take a few examples from last year and from what we hear now about next summer. I'm going to draw out North Norway in particular. Last year, both Rana, Wefsn, Alstadhaug, Brønnøy and Narvik held maternity wards and maternity wards closed to save money. Then the Health Minister said that she had not been informed about the extensive summer closure in Health Nord. The food department at Mo in Rana also held closed. The birthers were promised follow-up service, but it never came into place. In other places, too, this was well-managed, and many experienced a total lack of organisation of follow-up services for birthers. I think everyone here in the Chamber agrees that this is unacceptable. Now, by the summer of 2008, we already know a lot. Proposals for closure are available, and the Council of State can already give clear signals to health businesses. But can we accept that health care companies unilaterally decide to close up maternity wards and maternity wards without cooperation with municipalities? In this way, I am pleased with the clear signals given by the Council of State from the pulpit here today. In the spontaneous question hour a few weeks ago, I raised the issue related to the birth department at Narvik Hospital on the basis of the NRK resolution on 31 March that the director of the university hospital had decided to close the hospital for five weeks. I then experienced the answer from the council so that she was worried. She confirmed that there had been great problems for the natives last year. After what I heard, the Council of State has also intervened afterwards and said that the Narvik maternity ward should be open this summer. I hope the Council of State can confirm it today. I have understood that there are financial savings that are most often the main cause of closed food departments, which many people have been involved in today, and which we find very unfortunate. Employees have stated that there is no shortage of staff during the holiday settlement that is the problem. If this leads to correctness, I would like to ask the Council of State to prevent financial savings from affecting women and children. Besides, it's not just the offer of birthing women during the summer break that worries me. We are constantly hearing from professionals and also from birthing women who, unfortunately, are sometimes rejected when they come to maternity wards, that they are asked to come back a little later, when the ropes are tighter and the birth is getting further. Someone then experienced what the woman who stood out in the VG on 18 April told me that the birth is at home - as in her case - or before you get back to the hospital, or that you are very well started with the birth and are born very soon after you have come to the hospital. For women who have crossed the deadline, such events may become fatal. Because we know that the danger of stillbirth increases considerably the longer the birthing passes over time. In recent times, we have had some examples of the unfortunate rejection of one’s arrival at the maternity ward. Others feel that hospitals reject an ambulance order from municipal landladys. They're asked to get in the taxi because it's so expensive with ambulances. Hospitals say it right out. This happens despite the fact that the midwife in the municipality has examined the woman and believes she should be sent in an ambulance - the birth is actually well started. This affects the quality of a situation that for women and men is one of the most important things in their lives. It also goes on dignity, in my opinion. This came out very clearly at a meeting I had in North Hordland with midwives and health sisters for a while back. We have more debates and situations that show that birthing women, as well as abortions, are not given sufficient priority, as I see it. For example, in recent times we have had debates in several hospitals about standardising bedtime to six hours for birth. I'll put a big question mark on whether that's enough. So my conclusion is that women and children must be given a higher priority in the future. And I'm very pleased that the Council of State today is signaling that there's a big message about birth care. I think we need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1127	I would also like to commend the representative, Sjöli, for her always being committed to having good maternity and maternity care in our country. This is a good initiative. Otherwise, I think it is very good that the Council of State has taken initiative in front of this summer in relation to health businesses in summer-related maternity wards. That's very good. I also think it is positive that the Council of State is honest that not everything within the framework of maternity and maternity care in our country works well enough. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State announces that she will deliver a big message on the provision of birth and maternity in our country during 2008. I also noticed that the Council of State said that we have not succeeded in creating the necessary confidence in the population that the offer is good enough and safe enough - that is both the accompanying service and the provision of maternity care - and that we have some challenges in the provision of birth care, perhaps especially in the districts. When we talk about feeding, it gets engaged. There's a lot of commitment, because people are busy feeding safely. When the Storting in 2001 placed food institutions at levels according to the number of births, there was one attempt on the part of the Stortinge to create a good framework and ensure that people were born in the right places, based on the risk posed by each birth. That is why I think it is interesting when the Council of State today refers to the fact that the supervision of food institutions in 2004 did not show a correlation between the number of births and the number of births and that it warns that it is appropriate to consider whether better quality objectives should be established than the stated limits on the number of births. I think that's actually a very wise approach -- and that's actually the competence of the staff that's crucial to whether you can feed safely or not, and not necessarily the division that the Storting has done in the past. I look forward to receiving this big message, and then we can really go in and discuss what is going on to create the necessary and good confidence in the population in relation to both birth, childbirth and follow-up throughout pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1143	I would also like to thank the representative Sjöli for having this theme on the table today. It is also interesting that part of the copy that the representative Sjøli mentions, debt -- as I, who really come from the districts, sees it -- relatively central stroke. Ho named St Olav's Hospital as an example. So I want to focus on the small food departments in the districts, where there's really a long way to alternative food supply. Having a good supply of food in reasonable proximity, and not several hours away, is what creates security for those who are to be born, and not least for the close family. Otherwise, I am also pleased that the Council of State pointed out that it has not been documented, as the representative of the Skjälaa mentions, more deviations in small than in large food departments. I think it's important that the Council of State said it from this pulpit. She also said that here we have to find quality goals other than the number of births. I have to say that I was very happy to right, because it's not quantity that gives quality. That doesn't mean we're not looking for quality. Of course we should. It must be safe, and it must be good quality everywhere. But I think that what's under the authority of the state council is -- as I'll at least stress -- that we can't have A4 solutions in a country like Norway. We have different topography. We have long distances and different climatic conditions. Finnmark was named. Anyone who has tried to travel in Finnmark knows that it takes almost several hours from town to town. So it's clear that there are huge differences in the country. Along the coast there are many fjords and mountains, etc. We're so different. I also look forward to and was pleased to hear that the Council of State announced the big message. That warning of the staging message will, as I can understand it, also mean that a signal sent out to Sjukehus-Noreg that now it must be over with the closure proposals. Now you have to put a right on what the boss says, and then you get to take notice of it. At least I hope there's a signal that reaches the home of those who are sitting with the calculators. Finally, when it comes to issues of summer-related food departments, it has been said that it should not be because of economics alone. So what's the reason? Well, then, in my view, a person uses a completely surrogate argument and says that a person does not get access to professionals, that there should be a reason. I have some experience in being a local hospital director -- I was there for 11 years -- and I just have to say that when we knew that we were going to run hospitals at all departments every month of the year, there was no problem. If the Council of State clearly believes that no maternity ward should be laid down - and gives a clear signal early - there should be no problem. That's 100 pst. I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1156	I think the representative Ludvigsen had a very good point, especially in conclusion. Although Norway is sometimes a dark and sad country in winter, it should not come upon us every summer as a big surprise. In this field, it can sometimes work like this. Over the years, many people in the districts have experienced that their food supply has been threatened by closure. It often creates concern and insecurity in a situation where most people are otherwise characterized by their very happiness. The size decision in 2001 on a decentralised and differentiated birth offer was a milestone for this part of healthcare. In many places in the country, local feeding rooms offer very good offers to women with uncomplicated births. This applies, for example: the food supply in Odda, which is an enhanced food room offering ready for Caesarean cut, which one takes care of about 80 pst. of those who are born in that area. The living room is an integral part of the food supply in Health Fonna and actually has better results in terms of low-risk births than both Haugesund Hospital and Stord Hospital, which have the two food departments in this healthcare establishment. The distance to hospitals and to healthcare is an important element of the patient’s safety experience. At the same time, we know that it is not primarily the number of kilometres of health care that is crucial to the quality of treatment you receive, but the quality that is offered when you arrive. Food departments and women's clinics handling a large number of births have the necessary food skills and equipment, and it is therefore safest to handle complicated births there. However, when the pregnant woman and her loved one have to go to a food supply, it is essential that there is good follow-up services. As the representative Sjøli pointed out, this is missing in almost half of all municipalities where the trip to the food supply takes more than an hour. In a short time, the right will present proposals in Stortinget, which will significantly strengthen the accompanying service. For pregnant women in the districts, this will mean greater security when they have to travel beyond greater distances in order to get to the food supply. In addition, the Right is now in favour of a strong commitment to better roads in the districts, which will not least increase the availability of hospitals. Many in the districts now experience that their food supply is threatened by summer closure. Last year, the Narvik maternity ward was closed for summer. The Council of State itself has pointed out that this happened - in addition to poor information for birth and poor follow-up services. However, the Council of State, as the top political person responsible for the provision of health, did not intervene in time to prevent this decision. Therefore, it is good that this year the Council of State has shown greater power of action and helped to ensure that natives in Narvik do not encounter a closed door at the maternity ward of the summer. This issue concerns several sites. Among other things, the summer closure of the Voss food supply is estimated. The same was true of the Helgeland Hospital last year. It is a paradox that the food supply is of the few establishments that we cannot maintain during the summer season, despite the fact that it is high season for birth. Much more of the hospital business is possible to plan and control, but just when it comes to births, one knows that there is actually a peak in the summer. We can agree that people who work in hospitals must be given vacations - as the Council of State has pointed out - but it must also be possible for hospitals to intensify their efforts to provide temporary workers, so that summer closures do not occur. I would like to challenge the Council of State to comment on this in more detail. At this point, the right-wing group has already contributed to meeting the challenge, by the fact that Grandparent and midwife Sonja Sjøli have offered to substitute for the summer. It's a small contribution from our side to solving a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1177	The next speaker is interpellant and the summer vicar Sonja Irene Sjøli. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1180	I would like to encourage others who have experience in maternity care, to contribute to District Norway during the summer holidays. I would like to thank you for a good and constructive debate. I think it is reassuring that the Council of State now states that no food supply should be closed for economic reasons. And I'm pleased that the Council of State is now going to follow the situation at St. Olav's Hospital carefully-- I think that's what's most required. I know she's well-informed about the situation there. I am also pleased that there is now a weekly assessment of the situation, that a predictable and safe offer for women needs to be ensured, and that you are also concerned about the working environment. It must also be a good and safe working environment in a maternity ward. There's a pretty hectic activity, not just in the daytime, but actually around the clock--and often in the evening and night. I can sign that. What also applies to St Olav's Hospital is that they should not reduce activity only during the summer holidays. For economic reasons, they will actually make the reduction permanent. I was informed by the clinic manager, the director of the board and by the director of St Olav's Hospital when I was there last Wednesday. I believe that the Council of States must be aware of this. I also have it in writing that they have to expect for economic reasons that there will be a more or less permanent situation that they have to close a maternity ward at night and on weekends. Several have indicated that we have a good and safe offer in Norway, and I agree with that. Experience of safety, predictability and safety is essential for the course of birth, for the outcome of the birth and for the birth experience itself. I can really confirm that, as a midwife, both in large and small maternity wards and as a district earthmother in District Norway for many years. Low mortality and relatively few birth defects are measurable evidence of professional competence and a good and sound offer. But low mortality cannot be the only measure of quality in maternity and maternity care. Other qualities are also important for the safety of the birthing woman. I just wanted to say, finally, that the representative Ludvigsen wasn't quite happy with my commitment when it was District Norway -- but then I think he heard bad after. I used St. Olav's Hospital as an example of the fact that even in the large food departments, where one should think that the offer was in place, these are challenges. But I did not least address the situation of pregnant and pregnant women and the need for a strengthened preparedness and follow-up service in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1197	The interpellant has raised a very important debate. I also think it has been a good debate. I fully agree with Mr Sjöli that low mortality is not the only objective of quality. But it's maritimely very tragic when a child dies, and we have to try to prevent that. Another example is the number of tears given by birthing women in Norway. It is significantly higher than in e.g. Finland, Sweden and Denmark. There's no logical explanation for that. We probably know something about why it happens, but it shouldn't be like that. It's another measure that not everything is as it should be. That's why we have to reorganize some things. I feel that there is quite a broad consensus on that. I also feel that there is broad consensus here. I'm not going to express joy on behalf of the opposition, but at least there's no counter-representation against a big message coming up. Nor have I heard any contradictions with the idea of including users in the new National Council for Quality and Priority in Health. I noticed that. The representative of Nesvik is right that we have a very good food supply in Norway. If we compare ourselves with other countries, there is no doubt about it. But it is clear that there are things that should and should be even better, as more people have been about. As far as summer closures are concerned, as I see it, there is a slight difference as to whether it occurs in those parts of the country that have long distances, which have been experienced by others, for example. in parts of North Norway, or where there is 20 minutes or half an hour between two food establishments. There are two widely differing situations. That's why I'm happy to say at least that three maternity wards in North Norway that were closed last year will be open this year. That's where the distances are greater, that the challenges have been greater. So I don't want to rule out that I'm going to take even stronger action when it comes to summer connections in general. Because it is clear that everyone knows that the holiday is coming, everyone knows that people are going to have a vacation, and everyone knows about how long they are going to have. In some places there have been problems in getting good enough quality of the staff to be there. We need to be sure that there is good quality of the staff there. So we're able to solve part of it, especially where it's most critical for the current year. We're going to do it in the future as well. In other words, it must be safe throughout the whole year. That's my goal. I feel that there is a great deal of excitement about that. Therefore, the Government is to make its proposals as soon as we are ready for it. Otherwise, I can say quite briefly that in the case of Narvik Hospital, everything is right for it to be open all year long. If it is professionally sound, all indications are given. Then I can also demand that Voss Sjukehus should be closed in the summer, as the representative of Höie was in the house. It's not going to be summering at Voss Sjukehus. Otherwise, I bring with me a lot of good input, which is also a good play for the work on the Storing Message.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1220	The debate on substance is closed. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1236	Quality and good health services are not always countable. Today's systems are too much based on counting how many patients are treated and then getting paid out of it. It is therefore not worth caring for. It is not profitable to ensure a good arrangement in the municipality of residence until the patient is discharged. On a number of occasions, the Christian People's Party has expressed concern that priorities are being made between profitable and unprofitable patients at the hospital level, as both the Health Directorate and the Medical Association fear. The Council of State has also been concerned about this. It is very worrying, and there is reason to fear that unprofitable patients are those who need complex and coordinated services over time. The corresponding ‘wage’ does not mean investing in preventive work in municipalities. When Christian People's Party representatives visited a prevention work in a municipality, the rapporteur said that she feared that the doctors who carried out the tasks were also engaged in specialist health services, and that was not the rapporteur's willingness to spend any money on it. Patients who do not visit hospitals are difficult to count, and are therefore not rewarded. The Christian People's Party is involved in the funding system, as it has distortive effects that are not desirable. This was the theme of an interview with Giltun on April 4th this year. I therefore do not intend to repeat that debate, but the interaction challenges are so great that it is possible - and also necessary - to illuminate them from a variety of different angles. We cannot be aware that tipping top treatment in hospitals will be of no use because it is not followed up after discharge, or that unnecessary hospital admissions are overstepping vital treatment. This applies, inter alia, to: the sickest elderly, the drug addicts, people with long-term mental disorders and also the chronically ill. On a number of occasions, the Christian People's Party has also called for comprehensive healthcare, from prevention to treatment and rehabilitation, and a funding system that rewards such a whole. Patients should be treated primarily as human beings; they should not be counted. Structure also has an impact on the health services provided to patients. You can have as many good models of interaction as just that, but these won't be used if the structures don't rebuild them. One interaction tool is an individual plan, and a study by TNS Gallup, carried out among employees in municipalities and in the specialist health service, shows that the work on individual plans promotes cooperation between different parts of the service provider. Although individual levels are a legal requirement, not all patients get this. Director Lisbeth Myhre of the Health Directorate points out that it may be difficult to use individual levels, because the municipal organisation is not adapted to this way of providing comprehensive services, including: is made unnecessarily complicated by the levelling process. This is a very alarming statement, I think, and may suggest that the municipal organisation needs to change in order to increase interaction within municipalities. In this context, the structure of the Central Health Administration may also be a factor, where it may be interesting to ask the Council of State to what extent the structure of the administration stimulates and promotes interaction. According to the Ministry of Health and Health website, the specialist health service and the municipal health service are organised in two different departments. Although the organisation of the administration is the responsibility of the Government, it may be indicative of the interaction challenges that are organised in this way. Similarly, we find in the organisation of the Health Directorate, with two separate divisions for primary health services and specialist health services, despite the fact that the two levels of healthcare have many of the same patients. There are several approaches to good interaction. We see it, among other things. in the field of mental health protection. In several places, children’s and young people’s psychiatry, the BUP, which is part of the specialist healthcare service, and health centres, which are part of the primary healthcare service, have developed cooperation that benefits children and young people. Thus, two key principles are respected for the success of healthcare, namely early intervention and low threshold for seeking help. The Mental Health Council calls for lineless services. Lineless services in mental health protection mean that no reference is needed between levels and that the district psychiatric centres and primary health services in one or more municipalities are integrated in a way. Many suggest that the offer to children and young people is fragmented, since the firm, health centre, school, PPT, child protection and the BUP have partly overlapping responsibilities, and where the challenges of children cannot be broken down by different administrative settings. There is in no way one door for children in need of help, as it is now being sought for those seeking help from NAV. There is a need for more interaction in mental health protection. Although there has been a cross-political agreement on the direction of the Roadmap for mental health, institution building and decentralisation, several of the processes have not been successful enough or good enough. The interpellant debate on this 1 April of this year helped to shed light on several challenges. It is very unfortunate that the lack of cooperation between the municipality and the state does not ensure that those who need an offer are taken care of. I am thinking in particular of Solbu's after-care home in Oslo. Solbu has offered young people who need help in a transition after treatment in mental health protection, in order to be able to stand on their own feet afterwards. In particular, the lack of communication between Ullevål Hospital and the Municipality of Oslo has prevented a dialogue on how to continue the offer of Solbu. The Russfeld is also a field that should be raised where the need for interaction is great. If drug addicts are printed after the end of treatment without a place to live, without an organized offer of work, education or activity, without networks and without health and social follow-up, as we often see today - treatment can actually be of little benefit. Similarly, drug addicts who are motivated for treatment should, in my view, receive an offer pending treatment in the specialist healthcare service. In the past, the Christian People's Party has proposed that these should have the right to an institutional place pending treatment, and this could be motivating to healthcare to provide rapid treatment. In addition, treatment withdrawal is a major problem, and it should be sought that there is no delay between the different parts of the treatment provision, such as the use of drugs. between detoxification for further treatment, or drug addicts in both outpatient and institutional treatment are excluded from treatment. My question to the Council of State is: What can the Council of State do specifically to close these gaps, and what other measures does she see as a solution to the interaction challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1269	Getting better overall and interacting in healthcare is one of the main challenges we have. It is often the weakest and most vulnerable patients who are affected when the interaction fails, as was the case with the interpellant. As the interpellant pointed out, this is particularly true of people in need of specialised and complex services. It's about the drug addicts, the sickest of the elderly, the mentally ill, the severely disabled and the chronically ill -- to name someone. I think we all get upset when the media bring cases about patients who are left helpless to themselves, because the cooperation between hospitals and the first line fails. We're not going to have it that way. I am pleased that the interaction is now as high as it is, among other things. from hospitals and municipalities. It's coming out both of the activities we see and of the reports we get. But it also shows that it's a pretty long way to go in parts of the country. So we're going to continue with the long-term and, I'm saying, the systematic work that we're now doing, to get whole patient chains and good interaction. We have e.g. concluded a national cooperation agreement between the Local Governments’ Central Association and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. In its wake, local cooperation agreements between health businesses and the municipalities in the catchment area are being established or are in the process of being established. It's an important base. 133 practical consultants have been established in hospitals from the first line service, 20 more for the current year. These should provide good treatment for patients – from entering the hospital until they return to primary health care. Intermediate units where primary health services and specialist health services cooperate on the provision of sick elderly people are established and planning several places, with very good results: in Trondheim, Stjørdal, Fosen, Ålesund, Bergen, Stavanger, Halden, Bærum, Oslo - to name someone. These are very good measures, and more such units are coming eventually. It is better for patients, and it is also more profitable for society than hospital treatment. Decentralized outpatient clinics and bed places at district medical centers and hospitals are also good provisions for chronically ill and sick elderly people in the districts. They then do not travel that far to get help from simple conditions, and they can get training after hospitalization near where they live. They can also have access to medical specialists at the outpatient centres. In many disciplines, we now have outpatient teams where specialist health staff come to where the patient lives and cooperates with the primary health service. This is established in the fields of drug treatment, mental health, geriatrics, relieving cancer treatment, habilitation and rehabilitation. That's what we need to have more of. Common emergency services at hospitals where these are organised are also good. We'll also make more suggestions to do this even better. In addition, individual projects across the country testify to great creativity and willingness to provide good and coherent services. Fired souls are good and good, and often it's those who make things come up. But when it comes to interaction, we have to go from trusting that there are enough fires out there, to get systematics at work. I believe there is something missing today. That is why I believe the time has come to get a more systematic job and build on the best models and experiences we now have around the country. This review is now under way, which will make it easier to put in place more targeted actions in the future. Many of the interaction actions are enshrined in the framework agreement between the KS and the Ministry. For example, the Health Directorate, the KS and the Department work together to develop what is called indicators, so that we can keep up with developments. I stress that the good experience we have so far gained will be passed on to others who will initiate similar measures. I would also like to highlight the work on developing new ICT solutions. Interaction shall not become an isolated area for a few. It shall be a natural part of the tasks of health professionals and administration. Whole treatment chains are a key element of the national health plan, and coordination and interaction are key pillars of strategies for both habilitation and rehabilitation, mental health, alcohol, cancer, diabetes and COPD. With regard to the funding system, on which the interpellant is involved, we now have processes in place to improve interaction both within and between the different services. In the Wisløff Committee’s interaction investigation, NOO 2005:3, it was noted that the increase in the ISF rate to 60 pst. would lead to major interaction challenges in different parts of the service. The committee pointed out that reduced input-driven funding would improve the possibilities for better interaction. That's one of the reasons why this government has followed it up and has kept the ISF share at 40 pst. In addition, we are working on good systems to describe the activity of regional health businesses. Among other things, we need to: facilitate the ISF scheme to include decentralised specialist health services outside hospitals, such as: Ambulance team, District Medical Centre and Hospitals. I would like to repeat again that to the extent that the ISF rate is used at the department level of our hospitals, it is contrary to what is applicable - and it is being followed up by my side. From 2004, as is known, responsibility for the financing of sick transport was transferred from public funding to regional health businesses. This has many advantages, including:: Once the financial responsibility for treatment and sick transport is combined in one place, it will encourage the deployment of decentralised specialist health services because the cost of sick transport will be reduced. We also take important steps to strengthen the overall supply of patients to whom the interpellant specifically refers, which are the patient groups that are likely to grow for years to come. This applies primarily to care services and to the commitment to primary health services. The government provides for a greater division of work between hospitals, where the local hospitals and the local hospital facilities of the major hospitals are to be more adapted to the needs of people in need of complex services. It is important to support the creativity and commitment of competent health professionals to finding good solutions at all levels of healthcare. In the future, we will have a great deal of pressure on our efforts to solve the interaction challenges. We're not in target, but we're in good shape. I look forward to a good debate on a very important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1301	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, and it also points out a number of things that are going on. Of course - as the Council of State also points out - there is a lot to be done, that this is going to take a long time, and that there is a systematic work that needs to be done. I think that's right. At the same time, I think it is essential to look at the funding system. I can imagine asking the Council of State about it, as she sees it today, will be some incentives in the funding system that can encourage fewer interventions, that municipalities are not encouraged in some cases to place people so easily in hospitals - it obviously has competence to do, but it may also have to do with the organisation of services - and whether the funding system is also assessed for this. So I can imagine saying something about today we have a patient group that the Council of State very well knows that I am busy with, patients with ME. The councils have done a lot here, but I must be allowed to bring a little heart attack. We still see a huge lack of interaction, coordination and cooperation between the primary health service, i.e. the municipality, and hospitals. I had a question in the questionnaire to the Council of State many weeks ago about a patient who needs action, among other things. equipment from the specialist health service. So, after so many weeks, it is not yet possible to give this very ill patient what they need, because hospitals and municipalities are unable to agree on the cooperation. You're still arguing about the responsibility for this, to say it in a simple way. That's how I see it, and I think it's very regrettable. I know that the Council of State is also concerned about this group, and it's been laying on my heart for many weeks. As a proxy, you feel totally helpless, because you can't do anything, you can't intervene - so I have to review it again. I do not want to say that I demand that the Council of State respond to this, but I want to inform you about it. That matter is certainly not resolved. Another question that might be interesting when a wide range of agreements and local cooperation agreements have been drawn up between municipalities and countries is: Will there be some kind of best practice documented, and could there be a system linked to sharing experience? Because it's going to be very important in the years ahead, so it can go a little bit faster and not everyone has to figure it out again and again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1310	On the last question, I can answer a very clear yes, I think that is a very important point. We see in many areas that there is a lot of good work that others do not know about, but that many people can learn from. One of the reasons we have that kind of agreement is that we're going to try to get to a system by using the good examples and getting good models across the country, so one doesn't have to reinvent the powder -- excuse the expression, but I think everyone understands what I mean. So the question of the funding system. There I can also confirm that we are working towards finding systems that encourage fewer admissions, or say in another way: that people should receive treatment where they should be treated. It's not long since we had debates about particularly sick elderly people traveling in shuttle traffic -- we have examples of that -- between hospitals and hospitals. It's bad treatment and poor quality. Then there's something about that some of those groups have a lot better at being treated in their home, or where they live. That's why the focus on outpatient services and financial instruments is on meeting that development - so I can confirm this. I believe very strongly that we cannot have funding systems that work against the rational organisation of healthcare and a reasonable interaction between the different levels. It is just after the template we are now working on, so I perceive that the representative is on the same channel in relation to the thinking around it. When it comes to the question of the patient, as the representative Davøy raised, I hear what she is saying. I'll take it with me to use that expression. None of us want situations where those who need help don't get it, because someone in ours didn't agree. That's exactly what we have to get away from. That's why it's so important what action we're now taking in this area. Then I believe the funding system is one grip. But then it's in this area as in all areas, that it's allowed to use your head.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1319	There is a great deal of evidence that funding for services has a significant impact on the functioning of the interaction between municipal health services and specialist health services. There is also much evidence to suggest that funding is increasingly important for the equal opportunities of municipalities to build up broad competences and appropriate offers for those more and more who should receive an offer in their home municipality. It's not more than 18 days since we had the same theme in an interpellation I promoted. Having read the record of that debate, I can see no sign of the Council of State wanting to consider changing the funding of neither intermediate departments, palliative care nor rehabilitation of various groups that may occur in the municipalities. Furthermore, there was no understanding that a new funding should be considered for hospital wards where the need for more organised specialised and medical facilities is increasingly seen. It was therefore gratifying to record in the last post of the Council of State that the Government nevertheless wants to see funding as one of the measures that can be considered to improve interaction. I take it as a small sign that perhaps what was debated on 4 April too will be considered in that context. The team was mentioned in the articles of the Council of State as one of the good cooperation projects that are now in place. In the last few days we have been able to read that not only parts of, but the entire intermediate department in Halden is shut down after three years of operation. The evaluation of the department clearly shows that the intermediate item, which in this case is a prehospital unit, i.e. to prevent insertion, is the most appropriate and clearly preferred supply to the target population. This was something the Council of State promised to follow up on in an answer to questions that I just asked about this department in 2006. This type of department is an offer for patients who need treatment in addition to the community health service that can offer today, but who manage a simpler hospital service than is available at the emergency hospital in Fredrikstad. The battle stands at NOK 600 000. Halden municipality believes that there is a fault with a cost distribution where the municipality pays 75 pst. and hospital only 25 p.p., considering that these are actually patients who are usually treated in hospitals. You should understand that. What started as a good cooperation project is now closed down after three years. The reason is disagreement about funding, and patients are left as losers. This is likely to lead to even more corridor Asians at Fredrikstad Hospital. We will see many of these examples if there is not a new funding model that shows that the Stortinget prioritizes building up the health service outside the hospital. Nor have funds been allocated to the ten rehabilitation sites in Halden, the same offer that has been made in connection with the intermediate department. It's not about lack of wit and will. This is about the lack of opportunities to finance what is mutually agreed. In Sweden, there is a well-developed half-way service - and in health care homes with much better skills. I am not going to say that I know the reason for this, but I see now that there is at least one person who is financing the offer at the hospitals and the offer at some of these departments. Maybe they've seen a lot of money to fund offers at a lower level, as long as it's the same wallet it goes out of? Looking at developments over the last ten years, there is much to suggest that the major challenges that exist cannot be solved in a way other than by earmarked means of escalation and by another funding that follows the services or patients in a completely different way from what we see today. There have also been other patients here, such as psychiatric patients. Last week we could read about a patient with bullying that was written out from Modum Bad. It took two months for this patient to receive a treatment offer in his municipality. I do not doubt that there has been a contact between the specialist health service and the municipality, but the problem is that the offer is not clear when the patient comes out and needs it. Often it becomes too long wait and too long stay. It won't be a seamless service. The same applies to those who come from drug treatment. It's not clear on the day they get home. It's a problem in a lot of municipalities that you don't get proper rehabilitation. The interaction challenges are very great, and when there is a common desire and cross-political consensus on how services should really be resolved, and what is best, one should also look at where the obstacles lie. I noticed in the last debate that the Left wants to look at this with intermediate departments. I now notice that the Christian People's Party wants to look at the funding. I would assume that there are many funding models that provide better interaction and more equivalent conditions in the municipalities than today's model. It's positive that multiple games now say something about it. I also hope that the Council of State will confirm that this might be included to a somewhat greater extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1345	It is a television program, which some people seem to appreciate, called Beat for Beat. Sometimes you can get the impression that there is an appropriate heading of the healthcare we have built up. It works absolutely magnificently - bit by bit. That is, there are a lot of dedicated, well-trained, competent professionals who do an excellent job when they get the patient delivered. There are also many institutions that do an excellent job, each in their field. What too many patients experience is that it fails in the transitions between the individual pieces. This means that the quality of the overall treatment received is much lower than the quality of each piece. It may have to do with the time aspect, that there are too many breaks in the course of treatment. There'll be too many waiting times, often of indefinite length. This may also be because the patient was sent to the wrong place and should have been sent somewhere else. There are questions that the interpellant asks: What kind of instruments do we have to make this work better? Because it is not difficult to agree on the problem description. There is also no problem in agreeing on what it should be like. The hard point is, do we have the tools that are needed to make it work completely? The interpellant puts its interpellation finger on the funding system, and that is of course one of the most important management tools we have. At the same time, I noticed that the interpellant himself well guarded himself to sketch alternative funding systems for the existing. Here too, it is easy to point out the weaknesses of today's system, but it is much more difficult to come up with an alternative system that would obviously work better. The problem is that all tariff systems, all reimbursement schemes, all incentives will tend to invite tactical adaptation over time. I still have the pleasure of seeing some funding system that is not open to tactical adaptation in behavior. Of course you have to try to eliminate it as far as possible, but to get rid of it completely I think is difficult. I also noticed that neither the inter-pellant nor the state council, oddly enough, was concerned with what might be the most important function of the system if you want to get a bigger whole, namely the fixed system and the key function that was actually intended when we adopted the fixed reform many years ago. I still think that this is an unused capital if we took hold of the fasting reform and tried to recover it, as the original purpose was. Then the gatekeeper function was to be a significant function. It's not just - I'm saying - to pass on the patient, you're also responsible for following up the course in the continuation. I think the fixed medical system must be a backbone in the improvement work in this area. Then there's another basic problem. The second main instrument we have had in health policy over the last decades has been to extend rights legislation more and more. We have defined more and more rights for all patients in this country. But there is also an instrument that has its obvious limitations, especially in patients with complex disorders - e.g. in the case of addiction/psychiatry, and in the case of dementia - simply for the reason that right laws function on a tacit basis, namely that one knows its rights - already there is too many failure - and that one is able to put power behind the demands for the fulfilment of the rights. I also think we need to look carefully if we are to find arrangements that can take care of those groups of patients who are unable to find out their rights, or are able to demand that their rights be fulfilled themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1358	First, I would like to thank both the Council of State, of course, which had to come here today, and the representatives of the Progress Party and of the Right who actually took part in the debate. I don't know why not others did it, this is anyway important. You may feel that you have been told from this pulpit. At least I want to comment on the two posts that have been. As far as Vigdis Giltun's representative is concerned, I very much agree with her, and I think it is absolutely right that the funding system is very important for interaction. Like Giltun, I'm glad that the funding system is now being looked on with new eyes. A comment on intermediate departments, which was also addressed by the Council of State: I think these are very good measures. It's better for patients, and it's socio-economically useful. But I would like to ask the Council of State whether it might be possible to look at the system related to financing just by intermediate departments. It's also my experience from the many trips I've been around looking at a number of such departments, that there's a lot of focus and lots of discussions about the economy and how much each one - the specialist health service, the municipalities - is going to pay. Then to the representative on the payroll. I agree that it fails in the transitions. We don't have a seamless, complete system. We're not there today, unfortunately -- and we all have to take responsibility for that -- that the patient experiences things going on, that the patient doesn't have to care if it happens in the municipalities or in the specialist health service. We're not there. In addition, I would like to say in the case of the permanent reform: Yes, we have to, and it is also my opinion, of course, to include the fixed doctors when we talk about the community health service. They're gatekeepers, and they're supposed to be. In my opinion, they are being used too little when it comes to interaction, and there too, it may be that there should be some grip on how to work better together. Finally, I would like to mention what we have seen in some other countries, this by following a patient cycle more than by following the levels of healthcare, that is, by facilitating a complete patient cycle based on the patient's disease image, and by creating a few more standardised schemes that will provide predictability both for the patient and for the treating staff. I think in many cases, within many treatment types and different diseases, this could be done with good luck. I'm impatient on behalf of the patients. Even though we imagine that this is a lot of work, we really need to get everyone started and contribute as much as we can. We're going to do that from Stortinget's side, and I want the Council of State to come back as soon as possible and tell you what the world looks like in six months, a year, and whether we're on the right track. It's important to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1377	Yes, I'm also impatient about trying to help us get better interaction systems. Some of the most unworthy health situations, where things are going wrong, are due to the fact that interaction is not working. That's why it's about doing the right thing to figure out, as your salary said, the tools that work. I believe the funding system is one of these things, and that is why we are doing it. But there are also other things that need to be put in place. I can just say that intermediate departments are we very concerned about. I think there are a lot of good solutions. I would also like to say on behalf of the representative Giltun that I believe I emphasised this very strongly in the previous round we had about this. I think the example from Halden shows very well that we need to move on to find methods for more robust cooperation solutions, so that it will not be up to that hospital or municipality alone. We have to have something more robust around it that makes us actually get to what we really want. To the representative Wohnning: I agree with most of the things he was talking about. I would also like to stress, like the representative, Mr Davøy, that it is clear that the system is absolutely crucial for us to put this in place. That's why we're now spending a lot of time looking at whether we can make some adjustments that allow us to make even better use of that competence and capacity, also in order to get to the interaction that's not always as good as it should be. Then I also think the representative's salary had a very good point in relation to the discussion of rights, which one sees is very increasing. It's not least when we're there that some people might not know what rights you have, and how to get them. There are also some balances associated with it. I think it's been a good debate, and I'm taking along a lot of good input on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1390	That is when the debate is on case No. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1402	The increase shall now be added to the case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1426	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Stortinget agrees that the projects E39 Knutset-Högset and Rv 70 Brunneset-Eygarden are built according to the information given in St.prp. [[2007-2008]] No 41 in a joint project and authorised for the necessary borrowings to ensure implementation in the period 2008-2010. The discount shall be conditional on annual interest being charged to the Ministry’s annual budgets and on the amortisation of loans within the framework of NTP 2010-2019.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1465	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-22.ana.ud1709e1562	This means that the matter's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
