ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e28	I just felt at the end of this debate, to say, without the address of anyone, that I think such an important debate as this should not end in a debate about who has the best or worst form, but that it can end in that the tensions that lie in the debate, the position that lies in the debate, and which is honestly expressed by all those who have spoken here - including those I disagree with - are presented in such a way that everyone in the Chamber and all the Norwegian citizens who follow this, know what the parties mean, know what the representatives mean, and that we should leave that dignity above such an intense and important debate. It was just too near to shine a blessing-- isn't that what you do from the pulpit? -and say something about that even in an acute debate we have a dignity and respect for each other, although sometimes a bullet can go hot in the forms of expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e35	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e43	The odelsting shall now vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e51	The President will inform Odelstinget that the voting arrangement has been discussed with the party groups on the Family and Culture Committee in advance. The President is going to make a long and complicated voting transparent for Odelstinget, and will therefore take it slowly. Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 5, by Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 6, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Amendment No. 7, by Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right and Left Proposal No. 8, by Gunn Karin Gjul, on behalf of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, No. 9, from Trond Lode on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left, and himself Proposals Nos. 1, 5 and 6 are included on page 28 of the setting, while the others are distributed in the hall. The President noted that the proposals No. 2, 3 and 4 on page 28 of the configuration have not been recorded. They have been replaced by proposals distributed in the Chamber, i.e. proposals Nos. 7, 8, and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e107	We then vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e146	Proposals Nos. 7 and 8 the President will come back to. Now that we are going to vote on the motion for a resolution, the President will, to a large extent, allow votes to be made on all Roman numbers, since each Roman number covers one of the laws concerned. However, when we vote on Roman number II, which relates to the Children's Act, there will be a need to split up voting, because there is a proposal here for supplementary provisions in sections 3 and 4 - there is proposal No. 7, from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e246	The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e258	The President will then vote on proposal No. 8, from the Family and Culture Committee, which also applies to marriage law. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e276	Before we vote for Roman number II, the President will vote for Roman number IV. The President does so because the result of the vote on Roman numeral IV is important for the treatment of Roman numerals II.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e324	The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e338	We're going to Roman II, which is about the Children's Act. Here it becomes necessary to split the voting, because there are proposals for supplementary provisions of Sections 3 and 4. That is proposal No. 7, from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e385	The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e397	We then raise to voting proposal No. 7, from the Right and the Left, which relate to a new second sentence to the second paragraph of Section 3. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 3 of the Children’s Act is replaced by the following: In the case of assisted fertilisation within approved health care abroad, the identity of the sperm donor must be known. ‘... The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e449	The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e461	So we go back to proposal No. 7, from the Right and the Left, and the President now takes up the part relating to the new fourth sentence of Section 4, new sixth paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The new fourth sentence of the sixth paragraph of Section 4 of the Children’s Act shall be replaced by the following: the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis. ‘... The Progress Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e623	The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e647	The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e661	It is then added over the remaining Roman numerals - V up to and including XII.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e775	The Party of Advancement and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e789	It is eventually voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety. The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e803	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation. [[Applause from the centre]] Odelstinget continues in its negotiations following this historic decision. The president suggests that we take a half-minute break, so that those who want to leave the hall can do it in peace and quiet. That also applies to the gallery!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e828	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be opportunities for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It'll be looked upon as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e837	The proposal on the amendment of the Law on Social Security relating to Pregnancy and Parental Detention is a follow-up to decisions taken by the Stortinge in the context of the treatment of the State budget. Then Stortinget joined the proposal to give the self-employed the right to maternity benefits and parental leave of 100 p.m.. coverage of income up to 6 G. The Committee expressed its satisfaction at the fact that self-employed persons can now achieve the same coverage as workers without having to take specific insurance under the Law on Social Security and that the law is thus amended at this point. The question of the social security rights of self-employed persons has been dealt with in several contexts and there has been a common understanding that there is a need to look at the conditions of self-employed persons to combine professional careers with childcare. In connection with Document No: Eight proposals, which are mentioned in the vote, on equalising social security provisions relating to pregnancy, childbirth and childcare for self-employed workers, are also proposed on the coverage of care allowances, care allowances and training allowances. This was also addressed by the minority during the budgetary procedure. A minority in the Committee now re-examines these proposals in the context of the examination of this matter. As I said, the proposal now made by the Government, to which the majority of the Committee has joined, is a purely follow-up to the decision taken in connection with the budget, and thus in line with what has been taken into account in the current budget. However, from the government parties, there is reason to point out that, in the light of the Soria Moria Declaration and the previous decisions on accumulation, the Government will continue to work with a view to improving the social security rights of self-employed workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e854	This is a theme for which the Right burns and has worked a lot in different contexts, both in relation to the budget and in relation to Document No presented. Eight proposals. Unfortunately, the Government does not go in the way of financing it or in the scope of the proposal as far as the bourgeois parties want. The government's proposal does not ensure full equality between self-employed and other workers, and the proposal does not guarantee the right of self-employed to care allowance, care allowance and training allowance. There is no reason to believe that self-employed persons are excluded from a situation where, for example: must care for a sick child. Otherwise, I refer to previous discussions on this topic in Document No. 8 proposals and in budgetary terms. On behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I address the proposal that we have promoted in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e865	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e868	I'll be brief, because it'll be a long night, I think, with the file we have in front of us. I just want to signal that SV is very happy that the government is now presenting a case where also seafaring businessmen can benefit from some of our welfare arrangements that they have not previously benefited from. It is true that in the business world, there is a concern that women should also be more active both in setting up businesses and in operating businesses, and that they can also be maritime entrepreneurs. But it is quite obvious that there has been a great disadvantage, especially for young women who are going to have children, that they have come out so badly. That's why we think it's very positive that we now have a government that actually also delivers in this area. It means that it makes it easier for women of childbearing age to be able to take on these kinds of jobs that society demands, and at the same time that they can also give birth to children - which society also demands. So this is a very positive case. I hope the Government will continue to work to improve the arrangements for this group in other areas as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e877	After all, on the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased with the modified improvement contained in the proposal that we are discussing today. But as the representative Thommess also had it, there's still something left before we can say that it's quite good enough for this group as well. I have to say that the proposal was significantly oversold when it was first presented in connection with the current year's budget. For what came first after a while was, of course, that it was the sole proprietor who paid the bill for this. And not enough with that -- you increased the social security tax so much that the state takes in more than the law changes that this represents costs. We will have an opportunity to do something about this when we are about to have a review of the revised budget, if the majority will agree to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e884	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 645]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e900	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - That's to look at as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e907	A group committee is behind the main points of this odelstningsproposition and supports a transfer of a call for apologies from the police, as it is today, to the criminal services. This will provide more effective criminal care and better use of settlement capacity than is currently the case. This again suggests that this transfer of competence is enough of a contribution to the good work that the government has done to bring down or remove the reconciliation queue and prevent new carnivores. Such a transfer of competences has already occurred when it comes to the completion of Nordic judgments, drug programmes with judicial control and anti-drug programmes. The Committee agrees with the Government that it is good to have the same rules of procedure ‘that are tidy in practice’ and that there is a common code of conduct to stick to — not as today, with variation depending on whether the application is received before or after the soning has begun. For criminal services, this means a great deal to be able to plan better and thus make more effective use of settlement capacity, and, not least, to ensure that the treatment is equal for all. There is today good cooperation and good information flow between the police and criminal services, and there is every reason to believe that this good cooperation will continue. It is important that the police's knowledge of the individual sentence is also emphasised in the future, both in terms of who is to be called and when. When it comes to repeaters, there is reason to believe that criminal services will know these people from previous circumstances. However, the development of guidelines and procedures for the exchange of information should be in place. Wanting and apprehending a fugitive can also be done by the police in the future, without a call from the criminal authorities. There's no change here. When it comes to those who are too sick to be born, there will be a holistic review of this in connection with the criminal health services message, which comes to the fall. In the case of the submission from the Progress Party, that it may be advisable in the long term to carry out all reactions, the majority are uncertain about this. We therefore support in the proposition that it would be ‘most appropriate to gain experience in a partial transfer of responsibility’ first before considering further changes. I believe that a transfer of e.g. In fact, the imposition of fines will become a reversal of current practice. I would like to make it clear that this change in law does not have elements in it to change the practice when it comes to reconciliation today. It also states the priority to be given to calling if there is a reconciliation queue. There are cases that involve custody, long sentences, referenda or power-related judgments - in addition to young people and gang members. In the interests of the victims and the elderly, there must be a rapid reaction and a rapid implementation of the judgments. It is important to include them when we are now in favour of the transfer of competences with the aim of getting more effective criminal justice care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e928	The bill on the transfer of competence to convene and deal with applications for acquittal from the police to the criminal services is also fully supported by the Progress Party. We believe this is a step in the right direction to ensure that criminal proceedings are speeded up. We see that this is of great importance for criminal services in order to be able to plan and use the settlement capacity effectively and in a good way. More effective criminal justice can strengthen both the preventive effect of penalties and the trust in the judicial system. However, the Progress Party will point to a few points on which it is important to focus if we are to make this law work optimally. Several consultation bodies have pointed to the challenges of cooperation and the flow of information between police and criminal services - especially the problem of repeaters. This is important. The follow-up of the active criminals must be given priority - they must not suffer in this matter. If this law is to work optimally, police and criminal services must cooperate. Like the department, we assume that the police will report to the police on matters that indicate that the case should be given priority, and that the police will collect information from the police whenever this is necessary. We are pleased that it seems that good practice is being developed for this. Today, we have a strict practice in terms of deferral. It's also important that this point be highlighted and that it be prioritised. This conversion must not lead to a slippage at this point. Crime prevention must continue today’s strict practice of providing acquittal. Last year the majority passed a law that it should be punishable not to meet for compensation. We could read about several prisons that didn't follow up. There was no response to the sentence that did not meet for atonement. Such cases undermine the intention and importance of laws adopted by the Storting and must be addressed. Finally, like the Advocate General, the Party of Advances believes that in the long term it may be ‘appropriate to transfer the full burden of all reactions to the criminal justice system’. Nevertheless, we will gain experience with the law we adopt today before any further transfer is considered. The rapporteur said that the majority of the committee would first gain experience with this amendment. That is why I do not agree with the proposal of the Progress Party. We in the Progress Party believe that it should be an evaluation after two years, because then we have gained some experience with the amendment of the law. I therefore hope that the majority of the Committee will reconsider this and see the usefulness of such an evaluation as the Progress Party proposes. I refer to the proposal by the minority, the Progress Party, in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e948	The representative Solvency Horne has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e951	This is a proposal that goes into the range of proposals from the Government to make criminal justice more effective - and, not least, to provide effective treatment for those who are going into acquittal. Therefore, in this proposition, the Government encourages proposals to transfer the competence to call for compensation and to process applications for acquittal from the police to the criminal services. More effective criminal justice can strengthen both the preventive effect of penalties and the trust in the judicial system. The change will also make an important contribution to the removal of the queue altogether. The transfer of competences is thus one of several measures to achieve more effective criminal justice. The legislative proposal implies that, after the execution order has been given, the proceedings are grouped together in a single establishment. For criminal services, this is of great importance in order to be able to plan and thus make effective use of the settlement capacity. The transfer will also facilitate the effectiveness of procedures. In particular, for the benefit of the victims, it is important that criminal services can respond promptly and consistently to the implementation of convicted criminal reactions. The transfer of competence and the change in routines will include, inter alia: lead to a faster call for criminal execution in prison and a faster implementation of sentences on community sentences - and, I would add, faster implementation also of new criminal responses that we see in the future, responses to help reduce crime. At the same time, I would like to say that criminal care has now come a long way in building down the reconciliation queue, even in the case of fines. The efforts made by the Government include: by improving efficiency, but also by building a significant number of new sites and thinking alternatively, it turns out to be working. The probationary queue for unconditional judges reached a peak in 2006 with about 2 800 judges in line. Today, the queue has been reduced to between 800 and 900 judges. There are good prospects that we'll get to zero and in that way fulfill one of our important points in the Soria Moria statement. In June 2007, the remuneration queue for subsidiary fines was nearly 3 400 judges. Today I am pleased to announce that the queue is now approximately 1 900 judges. So we've taken action against all those who have been waiting for a criminal reaction. It has made it possible to get a quick response now, which can help the sentence get into a law-abiding path in its life. I assume that the police will provide the police with significant information on what is needed to implement this practice, and a communication on the circumstances in which the judgment in question should be given priority, which was also referred to by the case-rapporteur and by the representative Horne. It is important that criminal services also obtain information from the police where there is a need for it. Such exchange of information is also taking place today. In addition, I would like to point out that the individual officials who have knowledge of a court of law will rarely have a position with the very call for restitution under the present system. I assume that convictions that should be given priority due to the risk of recurrence will in many cases have been penalised in the past. At that time, criminal services will also have information of relevance to the issue of priority and place of refuge. In any case, guidelines and procedures for the exchange of information and cooperation in this field should be established. The Progress Party stresses that it is important to continue today’s strict practice of granting deferral, as the representative Horne also pointed out in his statement. The acceptance of an application for deferral will always be subject to discretion. However, no change has been made in practice as a result of the subsequent decision by the criminal services on such applications. It will also be the political signal from us in political direction in the Ministry of Justice. I also find reason to point out that in the case of the implementation of housing in Norway, we have been tightening up in the last few months in relation to early release or early release, so that people actually sit longer now than they did in the past. The cooling action that goes on doubles is otherwise terminated. We are now beginning to approach a phase in which we are going to apply all the instruments, instruments, we have to get people to right cool again, and to liquidate the extraordinary measures that the former government and also the present government have taken. The Progress Party proposes that the Government carry out an evaluation of the changes and return the case to the Storting in an appropriate manner. I see the good intentions behind the proposal, but I do not think there is a need for a systematic evaluation. Swallow if I do not support the Progress Party minority proposals, I believe it is important to follow developments and make sure that the scheme works as expected at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e970	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e986	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e993	This may not be today's, or tonight's, most important thing, but still. The main message is to propose changes to the Mortification Act so that murder cases under this law that are governed by Norwegian courts will be brought before Brønnø District Court. The government has put forward a proposal to which the Storting unanimously subscribes. In this way, the Council of State may be satisfied with a job well done. I assume that those who are most satisfied today are the employees of Brunny District Court. I therefore recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1002	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 647]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1018	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1025	There is an overall committee supporting this bill, amending the Schengen Information System Act and continuing existing police cooperation. Norway participates in this cooperation in the SIS as a result of the Schengen Agreement. We're glad we're now getting this in place. This law will be an important tool in cooperation with the prevention of cross-border crime and will strengthen police cooperation between Schengen Member States. Some new functions are introduced into the SIS. The essential element in this context is the possibility of recording photographs and fingerprints. It further opens the possibility of connecting different messages, so that the authorities are aware that there are several messages on one person. It is also possible to record a copy of a European arrest warrant in SIS II and, finally, to mention that the establishment of SIS II is taking place within the privacy framework applicable to the system today. Although not revised national budgets have been adopted, it is positive that the Government proposes to grant 12.9 million. to SIS II due to key delays in SIS II, which also impose additional costs on Norway. It is an overall committee which refers to the opinion delivered by the Customs and Charges Directorate. Most customs authorities in the other Schengen countries today have direct access to the SIS. Customs authorities play an important role in border controls on persons and goods, and with such direct access customs authorities will be able to alert the police or stop controls before leaving the country. The progress of the party is a bit out of tune with the Council of State's response to this question. He has no objection to such access being granted, and he believes it is more a practical and formal question. For the minority in the Committee, it is important that we put in place, as soon as possible, measures to prevent cross-border crime, and we do not see any need to reconsult this. That is why I would like to end by promoting the minority proposal, from the Progress Party and the Right, which can already give the customs and charging authorities access to the SIS system today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1044	The representative Solvency Horne has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1047	I just want to say from the Christian People's Party - since we are not in the committee - that we support the minority proposal. With the reasons given by the rapporteur, I do not need to extend the debate. I am glad that there is, in fact, complete agreement on this, but it is clear that when progressive proposals are made, you know where you have a Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1052	I am very pleased, on behalf of the Government, that the Storting ends up with the changes to be made to the Schengen Information System. It is a crucial tool for the Norwegian police to solve crime and to provide information to other European countries. There is no doubt that the development of this generation of registers has been a central debate for Norwegian participation in Brussels and Luxembourg in the context of Schengen cooperation. There has also been a central debate until recently on its entry into force. We now have an intermediate solution in relation to the Schengen information system that makes it possible for the new Member States to be within the system. But it is therefore the ambition of the Schengen partners to get this new system up and running during the autumn of 2009. As you can see, there has been an important process, in which Norway has also had active participation in the design of the new rules — we had, among other things. the presidency of the period of adoption of what we call the "Mixed Committee". I'm saying this because we're putting a lot of money into it is going to be an even more effective tool in getting to grips with the comprehensive crime that we see is organized internationally. That is why I am pleased with the broad consensus it is about such a proposal. It is also true that there is no particular disagreement on the proposal that the Customs Office, the Customs and Tax Directorate - the customs authorities - should have direct access to this register. However, the Government considers that it is appropriate that this proposal be sent to a hearing. We know that many actors in society are concerned with privacy issues, and this theme, that just access to these types of registers, which are constantly being raised here in Stortinget, should be carefully assessed before entering into it. And I also think it is right that all interests are heard regarding an extension of who should have access to the register. That's why I think it's right now to draw up a hearing memo. It is soon drawn up by the Ministry of Justice and will be the subject of a general consultation. Then we will have to decide on this issue on a later occasion - after we have heard the hearing bodies - in the light of any objections they may have. But there are important privacy issues that I do not think you should jump over by adopting in the Stortinget access to this type of register, as proposed by the Progress Party and the Minority. That's the background for us wanting to have a normal consultation process here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1063	I think I can say so that I am responsible for most of the police methods put in place to combat cross-border crime, as they were promoted during the two Minister of Justice periods in which I was responsible. But I now took the floor to make it clear that the Left supports the majority in this matter. I do that because, for my part, throughout the period in which I was responsible for combating this serious crime, I tried to find the balance between anti-crime and privacy. I used a popular expression like that we're going to use harpoon and not snorpenot, and at a time when I think it's going at speed in a number of areas, and where I, as the left-wing representative, have been concerned about, for example. The data storage directive, which cannot be compared to today's case, I choose to support the majority's reason for not now voting on the minority's proposal, namely that this should go to a hearing. Then you get to hear the views that are there, and find the interface that allows you to find the solutions, but at the same time don't bring any unintended effects. It's not like that now in our state of law that we don't have the opportunity to do that. Finally, let me remind you that when we got the case about police methods in 2004 - just after the NOKAS ran, a few months after Madrid - we didn't rush it through. We spent a year dealing with the matter. It led to a very broad consensus here in the hall, among others. in successful cooperation with the Labour Party, with the current Minister of Justice, who was then in the Judicial fraction of the Labour Party. --perhaps a little bit of words, but at least some primitive words around a small matter; therefore this explanation of vote and this marking from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1074	No more people have asked for the floor and the debate on substance. 5 is over. [[Footing, see page 648]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1090	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1097	Increased internationalisation and mobility mean that police and judicial systems must deal with a crime that is becoming increasingly cross-border. Organized criminal networks operating in several countries face new challenges. If we are to be able to effectively combat this type of cross-border crime in a common area of freedom of travel that the Nordic region represents, it requires that no limits are set for investigations and criminal prosecution in any of the countries - otherwise such countries will easily become a haven for criminals and criminal networks. An overall committee is pleased that the traditional extradition demand between the Nordic countries is replaced by a Nordic arrest warrant. The Judicial Committee shall have on several occasions, including: when dealing with the so-called police mission, pointed out the importance of closer Nordic police and prosecution cooperation. The Nordic arrest warrant will simplify and streamline criminal prosecution across state borders. The Convention on Arrest Warrants is a further development of Nordic law cooperation. The Convention obliges the Nordic States to abolish the current extradition system and to introduce a surrender system based on mutual recognition. This would result in the State receiving an arrest warrant apprehending and handing over the requested person to the State that issued the arrest warrant in the absence of specific grounds for refusal. The possibility of refusing the surrender of their own citizens will be narrowed and almost abolished. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the system, very short deadlines are also introduced to comply with and implement a Nordic arrest warrant. The Committee noted that all hearing bodies were in favour of replacing the current extradition system with surrender on the basis of a Nordic arrest warrant. On one point, the Committee has been divided into a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and Right, and a minority consisting of the Progress Party. The majority point to the fact that, since the Nordic judicial systems are characterised by relatively high levels of justice and the penalties are described broadly in the same way, the abolition of the possibility of refusing to surrender in the case of crimes which are not punishable in the country in which the offence is committed has little practical significance. Differences in the law will also be ensured by the Nordic arrest warrant law. An example of this is that the sexual lavalder is 15 years old in Denmark and Iceland, while it is 16 years old in Norway. Denmark and Iceland will therefore be obliged to hand over a person to Norway if he has had sexual intercourse with a 15-year-old. The minority also indicates that the possibility of refusing surrender in respect of crimes which are not punishable in the country of establishment is now largely abandoned, but that a country may, under the Convention, refuse to execute a Nordic arrest warrant under given conditions. On this basis, the Progress Party promotes its own proposal that Norway should not, on a principle basis, require a Norwegian person to be extradited if the action has been carried out on the territory of another Nordic country and does not constitute an offence under the law of that country. I must be allowed to say that I think this is a strange statement from the so-called law and the order-party Progress Party. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the SV, have also pointed this out in a comment. As a result, a Norwegian citizen who commits a criminal offence under Norwegian law in one of the other Nordic countries may be exempted from criminal liability. We are of the opinion that it would be wrong categorical to exclude the possibilities of handover, but that it should be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1114	With the danger of boasting too much of the Government today, I just want to say that the Progress Party supports this bill as well. We believe this is a step in the right direction for the effective fight against cross-border crime. It turns out that cross-border and organised crime is only increasing. That is why we are pleased that we are now getting this bill which will lead to a new and more effective system for the extradition of offenders to criminal prosecution and prosecution between the Nordic countries. However, the Progress Party notes that the possibility of refusing surrender in respect of crimes which are not punishable in the country of establishment is now largely abandoned. Although in this case it is almost the same as legislation in the Nordic countries, it raises a fundamental issue to which it is important for the Progress Party to point. However, even if double criminality is virtually abolished in the law, Article 5 of the Convention provides that a country may refuse to execute a Nordic arrest warrant if an act has been committed on its territory and the relationship does not constitute an offence in that country. The progress party appears to have had the effect of Article 5 very little discussion in the bill. The majority of the Committee makes reference to Article 4 paragraph in its comments. 3 in relation to the individual grounds for refusal, but does not indicate that Article 5 may also apply. The view of the Progress Party is that Norway should not, on a principle basis, require a Norwegian person to be extradited and, where appropriate, prosecuted if he has not committed an offence under the laws of the respective country. The Progress Party has therefore made a proposal that the prosecution authorities should not be able to demand any action committed in another Nordic country if it does not constitute an offence in that country. I would therefore like to promote the minority proposal from the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1127	The representative Solvency Horne has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1130	I'm not going to keep any long posts. I only have one question for the Progress Party, which should answer on one occasion. Now we are talking about the Nordic region, and I am therefore giving the Progress Party the opportunity to explain the principle that they are now putting forward - that is, if a Norwegian citizen in another Nordic country commits a crime that is punishable in Norway, we are not going to ask him to come home. My question is whether this only applies to the Nordics, or is this a universal principle for the Progress Party? If this is the Nordic region, we can actually live with it, because we have a common value base in the Nordic region, which was in the previous speaker. Almost everything that is punishable by us is punishable in other Nordic countries. But then there are other countries where what is punishable by us is not punishable there. For example, sexual harassment, which the Progress Party is very concerned about -- and so are we -- is not punishable elsewhere in the world, but it is punishable by us. Then the question is: if a Norwegian citizen commits this act elsewhere in the world, will the Progress Party agree to demand that he be home to be prosecuted here at home? I'm looking to hear if this principle is universal or just about the Nordics.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1139	I want to reverse the issue presented by the representative Chaudhry, and say that there is a special reason why we should actually be able to do what the bill proposes, in the Nordic region. We have a long tradition of Nordic cooperation and a Nordic legal community, and with Nordic work in different parts of the area of legislation, we are looking for common solutions. It's also interesting in a broader international context, what we can do in the Nordic region and learn from in the Nordic region. I would rather say it in a different way - it may be that the European Union adopts proposals that we want to be involved, but which are far more demanding than what we have here. Using the entire Nordic area to look for solutions that we have a long tradition of standing in and defending, I think is an exciting approach. I think it is exciting in two ways - for the first Nordic in itself, but also the Nordic countries as part of the European Union and further international judicial cooperation. I'm not going to spend my time being polemic towards the Progress Party, because I actually understand that the Progress Party wants to narrow something down. But I can see Chaudhry's question, because you might not want to do it in other cases. But I assume that they mean what they mean, and then it could have some consequences. It may be that in other contexts I will vote for clarifications and limitations, but I find little reason to do so within the Nordic Judicial Community. There's somewhere on the globe where we're actually going to do this in mutual trust and mutual trust, and it's well described both in the bill and in the committee, it's in the Nordic community. This is also a way of developing Nordic cooperation, that we can do it in court. These are also other areas, but they are not part of the debate here today. So the Left supports in these words the attitude that has been promoted, and would like to await the debate on other arrest warrants that are complicated and challenging, and which I am sure the Grand Mountains Government Council agrees with me. But starting in the North is excellent. It's just here it should start if we mean something with the words that we basically use when the Nordic Council sits together and has its plenary sessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1150	I very much agree with the representative of Dørum in his consideration of the importance of criminal law cooperation in the Nordic region. It has meaning in many directions. First of all, we live very closely together, and we have very similar legal culture. The second is that we in the Nordic region have a great opportunity to take joint action against very serious crime. This, which Odelstinget is now invited to adopt, is perhaps one of the areas where we see that the practical police and prosecution cooperation between the Nordic countries works very well, and has also served as a model for other international cooperation, among others. European arrest warrants. We have received a European arrest warrant that has complicated a lot in itself, and which has also been a long process for Norway to try to get in position. We see again that the Nordics take hold of and make a new arrest warrant, which we adopt today in Norwegian law, and which helps us to get even better rules in order to deal with criminals, no matter where in the North they may be. This is, in my view, a very important act of law for us, and I hope that this cooperation will only become closer and more integrated in relation to many of the challenges we face in the Nordic region - be it human trafficking, gender mutilation, questions about war crimes and their likes. Some of this is also the theme - among others. Internet-related abuse - at the Minister of Justice meeting we're going to have this summer to see if there are other mechanisms we can draw up to make cooperation in the Nordic region closer. It can also work for other international cooperation, which we are totally dependent on in order to get to the bottom of many serious crime species that we know no borders. Today, extradition between the Nordic countries is based on equivalent laws from the early 1960s. The delivery system we've had has worked well, has been very smooth and little bureaucratic, while social development has shown that improvements to the system were desirable. In 2002, the EU adopted a new and simplified system for the handover of offenders - the European arrest warrant, which we have been in for a while - and this was among others. inspired by precisely this Nordic cooperation. But it went a little further to simplify the process and abolish the grounds for refusal. It was therefore decided in 2002 by the Nordic countries that the rules on extradition of offenders in the Nordic region should be revised in the light of a new European arrest warrant. The assumption was that the Nordic extradition regime after the audit would be at least as wide and effective on all points as the European arrest warrant. Fortunately, we have succeeded in this. The honor goes to both the previous government and the current government. The Convention was finalised in 2005 and signed by all Nordic countries on 15 December 2005. We have all the prerequisites for such close cooperation in the fight against crime in the Nordic region. The government's ambition is to strengthen police cooperation at all levels of criminal justice in the future in order to be more effectively armed against the internationally defined crime. I then record that the Progress Party is promoting a minority proposal on one point. The Contracting Party wishes to legislate that the prosecution authority shall not be able to require the surrender of facts committed in the territory of another Nordic country where it does not constitute an offence under the law of that country. I would like to point out that criminal law in the Nordic countries is based on common values, as I said at the outset, and is largely consistent. Thus, the situation of the Progress Party is unlikely to occur particularly often in practice. However, I would agree with the majority in the Committee that the possibility of requiring handover should not be categorically excluded in such cases. Yes, why should we do that, abolish the possibility we have through this Nordic agreement, when you can actually have an opportunity to demand extradition? But there's a "can rule" that's being set up. I just have trouble seeing what's the background for us to tell off that possibility on the Nordic level too. I also have to say that I think the representative of Chaudhry's issue in this way is relevant to clarify whether there should be anything in principle that entered the Progress Party in order to be able to demand extradition. When a Norwegian citizen has committed a criminal offence that is punishable by Norwegian law, why in the name of all the world should we not do what we can to pursue such a crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1169	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1172	Article 5, which refers to certain grounds for refusal, clearly states that an arrest warrant may be refused if the situation has been committed on the territory of the initiating State and the relationship does not constitute a breach of law there. My question to the Council of State relates to Section 17, which the Minister of Justice has proposed in the case: does the Minister of Justice not see that Article 5 can basically work against his purpose in relation to Section 17, which has been proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1179	No, I can't see that. This is where I think the Progress Party misunderstands the agreement, because it is actually the case that the delivering country has an opportunity to refuse extradition when it is not punishable for the relationship in the country from which it is delivered. I believe that the proposals of the Progress Party are designed to cut off the possibility that Norwegian police could demand extradition in cases where criminal offences have been committed by Norwegians abroad. That's a pretty different problem, an opportunity that I don't understand why we're going to write off. After all, it's all just a possible permit that Norwegian police had to have, and that could be good to have. As far as the North is concerned, I have to say, as the representative of Dørum, Chaudhry and others have pointed out, that we have such equal laws and rules, a great deal of justice, that there will rarely be any problem in principle regarding the issue of double criminality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1191	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1196	It was the representative of Akhtar Chaudhry who made me take the floor again in this matter. The issue we are dealing with today relates to apprehension and handover between the Nordic states. As several speakers have said, the Nordic judicial system is characterized by relatively high legal unity. The only problem that comes up in the Nordic countries concerns the sexual lavalite. For the Advancement Party, this is a fundamental question. If a Northman travels to e.g. Denmark and having sex with a 15-year-old, should he be required to be extradited? Then I would like to remind the representative of Chaudhry that today we have a law with regard to what he mentions - Section 12, first paragraph, No. 3, which the Progress Party fully supports. There's a lot of acts that are punishable for a Northman to do abroad. I just want to say that I am familiar with the prohibition of sexual harassment in most countries of the world. So that problem doesn't come up there. But then I have to say about the touching concern that Akhtar Chaudhry has for this: I can't see that he has suggested that we raise the sexual lavalder - Denmark has a sexual lavalder of 15 years, while Norway has 16 years - if he's so worried about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1207	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 649]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1223	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be given opportunities for the replacement of lines with three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1232	This bill essentially provides a balanced regulation of the relationship between an insurance applicant and a company when insurance is refused or offered at a particularly high premium. There is reason to commend the Council of State, which has moved a good deal from the proposals on contractual obligations which he made in the previous period as a representative, but which here provides a good deal of work to be decided upon by the Storting. Most hearing bodies have been in favour of the proposal. A general right to insurance for all, regardless of the importance of risk assessments in insurance business, seems to all to be unlucky. First of all, public schemes are intended to ensure the desired redistribution of society and basic economic security for individuals affected by sickness and disability. It is important, however, that those who are denied insurance be given written reasons and the right to be informed that they may apply for such insurance after a certain period of time or, if the situation changes, have the right to bring the case before the Insurance Appeals Office in order to try out the more fundamental aspects of the grounds for refusal. They are also entitled to have the company assess whether they can be offered a more limited coverage, so as to avoid total rejection. In this respect, the Committee has made it clear that the requirement to write only occurs after a genuine enquiry into insurance with the insurance company concerned, not only in the case of more informal enquiries and investigations in the market - typically oral and more non-obligatory enquiries with the individual company. In the case of the bill, an overall committee, albeit in a few different words, has clarified that, for example: dyslexia, learning difficulties and adoption in isolation cannot serve as a ground for refusal. Although the government parties are not on a note where the Government is requested to continuously assess practices in the name and the insurance industry’s statistics in relation to the legislator’s intention and the need for any clarification by the legislator, I would assume that the Government is still doing so, and I would ask the State Council to state clearly in its post afterwards if he has not intended to keep considering practices. Although the government parties are also not in the Right and Advance Party's special remark that the government must follow closely the negotiations to establish a neutral medical dispute resolution solution, and eventually to assess the need for regulatory regulation of requirements for neutral medical expertise when people first complain, I will actually be a little surprised if the government does not actually follow these negotiations and will consider any legal regulation if the negotiations fail. I therefore ask the Council of State to say whether I have misunderstood how I assume that the Government will nevertheless follow this work very carefully, and whether it rejects a future assessment of the regulation of this. A reoccurrence in insurance matters has been payment claims for insurance denial. An overall committee assumes that payment remarks cannot be taken into account in the risk assessment or as grounds for denial of insurance. That's good. However, to present the possibility of connecting e.g. the sale of car or residential insurance to customers who take up car or residential loans through the company’s own bank as an opportunity to indirectly use credit claims as a ground for refusal, or the cross-selling of non-life insurance products against their own life and pension insurance customers with similar possibilities as if they did not exist, is unreasonable. The Right Party and the Advance Party have, on the basis of recordings, asked the Government to investigate this via the Banking Law Commission, which I know would not have had any problems with it. It wouldn't be a research project, but it would be to take account of a development in the financial market we are already seeing intervene. If the Banking Act Commission is a blind lead for the Government, I allow myself to ask if the Government intends to check this out in any way other than for example. via the Commission. It is good that a limit is set in the bill on when health information should be required. It is important that such a limit is set and it will clarify the external framework for the information that the company can request. Although such a time limit should be superfluous in relation to practice today, the restriction would clarify an insurance applicant. In conclusion, I would therefore like to address the precise minority proposals of the Right and Advance Party on this issue. I'll end by saying again that the government here delivers a balanced law, in an area that naturally is characterized by a lot of emotion and great commitment. It has been noted by several in the Committee, but it is a good development for both insurance applicants and companies that some current practices are codified and that this law is put in place, as it exists today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1256	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1259	I am pleased with the strengthening of the consumer's rights that we have adopted here today, that the insurance company cannot refuse insurance for no reason whatsoever, about the requirement of special risk, and that there should be a clear link between refusal and risk. In addition, it shall not appear unethical for the individual. To clarify this, the majority have assumed that we do not, in isolation, view adoption, dyslexia and learning difficulties as particular risks. I would like to stress that what is in the bill does not change the basic principle that the rules should apply to all types of risks. There is a risk associated with consequent suffering or disease that is decisive. What is the reason for the refusal depends on what insurance cover is to be refused. Nevertheless, it is quite clear that only one person can refuse insurance that covers the special risk. This is just one of the main points of the new bill. The company should not be able to deny insurance legally beyond the specific risk involved. The company must then offer a more limited coverage, with the exception of the special risk, rather than a total refusal. Also in the future there will be people who are denied insurance, because there is no human right to insurance. Then it is important that the bill makes demands on the basis on which the company can actually base itself when they assume that a person constitutes a particular risk. The companies must be able to demonstrate that proper assessments have been carried out and that any statistics are professionally good, up-to-date and directly relevant to the case. One cannot rely on sighting and its own prejudices. The written grounds and the letter of refusal shall state that the refusal may be filed for a name, even in the case of an increased premium. This is important to inform users about what permissions they actually have. The working party is also pleased that payment notes cannot be used. If you haven't paid your phone bill, it's totally unthinkable that you get a premium on home insurance. It is within the Committee when it relates to the extent to which the insurers have the right to go back in time to obtain information. The Working Party and SV support the setting of a limit on the time when health information is to be required, and support the Ministry that the company should only have the right to request health information on matters no longer than 10 years in time. Such a rule will specify the external framework for the company's requests for information. Even if such a time limit should be superfluous in relation to practice today, this limitation would seem to clarify for an insurance seeker. Therefore, we disagree with the Right Party and the Advance Party in a release of the insurance company to make it easier for the companies to refuse, possibly to reduce the payment by being able to withdraw older conditions if symptoms occur. An example is a health insurance that gets epilepsy. A symptom of epilepsy is a flu-like condition. Should one then be denied insurance payment when one has had such symptoms? Who hasn't had an influenza? Or by signs of illness: It's people who have been denied health insurance because they've been with physiotherapist. I would argue that in this legislative proposal, we have found good, balanced solutions that guarantee insurance seekers the necessary protection and the right to both fair and proper care, while avoiding intervention in the supply of insurance products in a way that may have adverse effects on the whole insurance market and thus on all insurance customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1280	Let me do the same with the case rapporteur giving tribute to the Council of State for a balanced product. It may be a little in contrast to some statements from the previous period from the then member of the Judicial Committee, but we have to put that aside. The result is good, the result is balanced, and here you have the ability to take into account those who want insurance and the responsibility that companies are going to take. It has to be such a balance. If you went only one way, you would have an imbalance, and it would be kind of unfair to one party. What you are doing now is opening up the possibility of a refusal if a customer feels that he is being unfairly treated, and that is, of course, a consumer strength that I believe makes sense to everyone. At the same time, when a company is required to take a risk, it must have access to an assessment of its responsibilities and there must be a balance between two parties. I think you have, and you have pointed out the issues to be taken into account. In that way, this is a good product. The rapporteur also pointed this out with a clarification of expectations, not least to the companies. I think that in the long run will be good. It will also deprive insurance companies, to the extent necessary, of the right to interpret themselves out of the law and out of the law. In this way, this is undoubtedly a step in the right direction, and I assume that the policy holders in general will be very positive about what a largely overall justice policy stands behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1291	On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will also give our support to this new bill. We fully support the majority vote on all points. I just want to link some comments to section 3-10, which is often the difficult paragraph. The first paragraph reads as follows: ‘The company may not refuse, without objective cause, an insurance offered by the company to the public on normal terms and conditions. ‘... After all, it is the words ‘serious reason’ that has caused problems for some policy holders to those degrees, because the judgement has been used in their disfavor to a great extent. For example, it is true that people are denied insurance on the basis that they have had one form of illness, and insurance is refused in areas that have nothing to do with such a disease. We have many examples of this, for example: persons who have been declared healthy from cancer are denied other types of insurance without there being any factual link between the insurance they wish and the refusal given. I perceive that a unanimous committee here wants a tightening. We therefore support the legislative proposal as it exists, and I believe that the type examples mentioned by the Committee in terms of what is not objective to reject, are in no way an exhaustive description of what can be a cause for rejection or not, but that there is something that has been found to be particularly important. There are absolutely other categories that should have been included in the case, if it were to be exhaustive. We support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1307	I want to take the word to say that the Left supports the setting as it exists. We also perceive the minority's proposals as, to say the least, giving a little bit more to the insurance companies than we like. We think that the issue that the representative Syversen now raised tells us that we already have some challenges with the current text, even though the committee has tried to get into it. I would also like to stress that the representative of the Syversen raised the issue of what is factual or not, is a matter which the Council of State can take into account in the further work. With these words it's announced that we're following the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1318	Insurance undertakings shall not be able to refuse insurance without due cause to a person. I am pleased that we can finally put in place a provision that establishes this simple, but important principle explicitly in the law. In practice, it may be more difficult to determine what is factual. Non-contractual insurance - in the sense of the claim for a factual reason in the case of denial of insurance - appears to be a single principle, but it is nevertheless a complex issue to regulate. In this bill, I believe that we have found good and balanced solutions, which ensure the necessary protection and the right to fair and proper treatment for the policy-seekers. Refusal of insurance can be very problematic for those affected. One thing is that refusing insurance can have a significant economic impact. Another thing is that it can also be perceived as stigmatizing or hurtful to be denied insurance. An insurance denial is likely to be particularly difficult when a person is denied insurance because of a condition that makes it feel neglected or stigmatised in various ways in several other contexts. Some of the issues of insurance denial that have been mentioned in the media have specifically concerned such cases. Then at least it would be good to get a good explanation, a written reason, on why that happens. On the one hand, the Committee's comments in the referral show that it has been recognised that companies must be able to refuse insurance where the risk is too high, while at the same time it is clear that the members of the Committee have always asked themselves the same question that I have asked myself all the time: how can we, however, make the best possible provision for the interests of persons representing such a particular risk which, in the circumstances, may lead to a refusal of insurance? It is important for me to stress that the Ministry, when drafting the legislative proposal, has placed very great emphasis on the creation of rules of law to take the utmost account of those who are denied insurance, even where the refusal has factual grounds and is thus lawful. I would like to mention in particular three elements of the legislative proposal which, for the Government, have been particularly important: Firstly, it is important for those who are denied insurance that the legislative proposal imposes requirements on the actual basis on which companies can rely when they assume that a person presents a particular risk. Companies cannot rely on their own prejudices but must be able to demonstrate that proper assessments have been made and that any statistics are professionally good and directly relevant in the case. I underline the last. Secondly, it is important that those who are denied insurance be given the right to a proper written justification for the refusal. Thirdly, the right to deal with the matter in the Insurance Damage Study is important. Through the practice of the claims subject, it will establish further requirements for the risk assessments of the companies, including requirements for the actual basis on which the companies can base the risk assessments. The majority’s comments on the work of the Consumer Council, the Organisation for the disabled and the Main Financial Industry Organisation on strengthening the medical expertise of the denominator do not necessarily give the correct picture of the role and assessments of the Ministry of Justice. In this respect, I refer to the comments of the majority here, to which I agree, and to the department's assessments in Ot.prp. No 41 for 2007-2008, that the use of professional competence is hardly something that can be imposed on the part of the legislator, since the denominator itself is based on an agreement between the parties. Finally, I would like to highlight a very fundamental thing, and that is the fundamental principle that the same rules apply to all types of risks. I would like to highlight this in particular here, because some of the Committee's comments in its position, both from the majority and the minority, could be taken on board for the proposal to impose a discrimination between different types of risks. I agree with the representative of the Seven in his observation that this is not an exhaustive overview. I suppose it has not been the intention of the committee members to give the impression that there is such discrimination, but I would nevertheless like to conclude with some comments related to this: Some conditions and disorders have been mentioned particularly in the media in connection with insurance denials, and in the setting both the majority and the minority mention some such examples. As Minister of Justice, I will not decide what kind of risk one or the other of the conditions specifically mentioned may involve. It could lead wrong places if I were to express certain opinions on the risks and assessments that need to be made in relation to different medical conditions, and such a risk assessment from my own would hardly meet such quality requirements as the proposed legislation provides for such risk assessments. However, I would like to stress that such states which are specifically mentioned in the position, both by the majority of the committee and the minority, are not intended to be in any particular position as regards the legal requirements for the risk assessments of companies. The bill does not separate here. In all things, it's the same scale-- that's. the same requirements for the risk assessments of companies - which shall apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1350	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1354	I'll do it simple. I'm just interested in hearing: what is the basis for the Council of State to lower its ambition from sitting in opposition to becoming a responsible State Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1359	The level of ambition has not been reduced. As I said in my post, it is that the contractual obligation you see in insurance implies that you should have a factual reason for denial of insurance. It is a simple principle and, as I said, also difficult to comply with. I believe that this proposal just brings in what has been my own party's ambition, both when we were in opposition, and now when we are in government: you have to make a completely crystal clear claim to insurance denial - it should be justified. We even go further in making significant changes to the rules, including: as to how old the medical basis must be in order to be able to use it in insurance conditions, and not least to require written reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1366	It is possible that I am a bit in victory row by common marriage law still and did not get with me all that the council said. But I'm just going to check it out, so I'm absolutely sure that I have received an answer to the question I asked. With regard to the structural changes we see in the financial industry, the government parties in the committee have refused to allow the Banking Act Commission to assess this in relation to the possibility of circumventing the use of payment notes as a ground for refusal. That's okay. The Banking Law Commission may not have been the right place, according to the government parties. However, in any other way, the Council of State will assess the structural changes in the financial industry in order to verify that payment statements are not used indirectly as a ground for refusal, by having total packages, etc., for which the Right and the Advance Party have been concerned in their comments, in the light of, for example, the input from: Consumer Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1373	Now my speaking time went out for me under my main post, so I got hurt not to answer the questions that the representative Dahl raised. I use occasion now in connection with a line. The absence of any institutional work on the question of what to do in the banking industry, what to do in the financial industry, the lack of an evaluation process, does not mean that we are not going to have a big focus on how this law will be handled in the future, so all the requests made by the representative Dahl, I think, are relevant for assessing how this law will work in the future. I cannot be deleted because it will be necessary to come back to Stortinget with any new changes. That's what I'm saying because we think it's important to have a look at this field. We know that insurance means more and more to individuals, to their safety and well-being. I hope that the public welfare system will deal with the basics. But there are some areas where we are totally dependent on insurance, and therefore this should be followed closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1380	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 653]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1398	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1403	First of all, on behalf of an overall committee, I will give tribute to the Government for the prompt handling of this matter. The matter must be seen in the context of what Odelstinget decided before Christmas last year in connection with the DNA reform. In the law we then dealt with, there was a unanimous justice that asked the government to come back to Odelstinget with a possible amendment of the law, so that we could put in place an investigation register. We had the debate about the research register and the DNA reform at the time, so I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it right now. I just want to point out a couple of things about the investigation register. Firstly, it is that the establishment of the investigation register will complete the initiation of the DNA reform. I think there's an overall committee that looks forward to seeing the results of the DNA bet we've now started. The second point I would like to point out is that the establishment of the investigation register will not impose additional costs on the police, because no more DNA analyses or tests will be taken as a result of this register. It may be right at these times to make a point of that from this pulpit when it comes to new reforms. The very last point I want to make is that this will also strengthen privacy, because we get better and clearer rules on the deletion of DNA profiles. With that, I would recommend that Odelstingen support the proposal submitted by the Judicial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1416	When the case was up to initial treatment in Odelstinget, the Left was for a register, but with a different limit to entering the identity register, namely, sentenced to six months of unconditional punishment. That proposal did not come forward, so we are not resuming the proposal today. That doesn't mean we accept it, but we note that the majority wants something different. Now when I take the word, in addition to marking this, it's also to emphasize that in the debate we had then, I raised the question of deletion. I had a feeling that you were open to discuss it, and I also see that in the powers that lie in the second part of the setting, you're just going to get into deletion. I would simply encourage the Council of State to say something about how he now thinks about the further work on deletion, because it can obviously be situations where for very many reasons it should not be erased, because criminal acts are being committed where there is a risk of repetition. It's very serious. So it's obviously going to be a lot of issues where it's natural to delete a registration, like by rehabilitating to society. In the case of rehabilitation, there should not be any entry in the register. I would ask the Council of State to say something about these matters when he gets the floor in a moment, as far as he is able to do so, and how he will continue to work on this part of the matter that has been submitted. Otherwise, I agree with what the minority has pointed out when it comes to sufficient capacity to use such a register. Once you have it, there's also a point that it's being used.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1427	I have said several times from this pulpit that one of the most important things we promised in the Soria Moria statement was that we should develop DNA into a better investigation tool to solve more crime. We're doing great. The staging representatives know the appropriations made for the current year to develop a DNA register. That's a lot of money, and we're adding from the government's side, of course, also up to continue that investment to next year. In my opinion, this is the most important step we can take to solve more crime, and it is important that we also get what we are today inviting Odelstinget to adopt, that is, this research register. The proposal for a change is based on the establishment of a separate investigation register in which DNA profiles can be recorded from persons suspected of a criminal offence which could lead to a detention penalty. These profiles shall then be regularly searchable for the identity and track record. I stress that this does not imply any extension or increase of the number of samples to be taken and DNA profiles to be produced. The point is to provide only an access to the registration of samples already suspected of being taken today in a separate investigation register. It also means that we have a greater opportunity to meet the privacy requirements that we want to make to all types of registers, to which I will come back a little. In this way, the DNA profile is given the same status in the investigation as other characteristics the police have registered, for example. Fingerprints. I can't see that there are heavy-weight considerations that mean that the DNA profiles are to be treated differently. The system of a separate investigation register can eliminate the risk of missing the right person in a case despite the fact that you are already on the relevant track material. That's the whole reason for this. Such a risk will be present without the register as there is a significant variation in the timing and order of submission and recording of trace material in the individual case. The investigation register ensures that the profile of suspected suspects is continuously and regularly compared with trace material from other cases recorded in the track record. Therefore, the investigation register can significantly simplify the investigation and in the long term contribute to an increase in the clearance rate. In the event of a final conviction, the profile shall be assumed to be transferred to the identity register, while, in the event of a legal acquittal or injunction, it shall be deleted from the investigation register. That is my first answer to the representative, Mr Dørum: You have to delete this profile when there is a proper redress or order. There's reason to underline it. We will also clarify it in the regulation, and I would assume that this will be central to our work on the police records law that we are now in the process of drafting, and which is planned to be promoted to next year, as far as I recall. I would also like to mention that even today after the third paragraph of Section 11a-4 of the Public Prosecutor's Order, there is access to connect the DNA profile to a non-registered person with a known identity to the Track Register. Thus, the investigative register does not entail any change in reality as regards the possibility of searching. Whereas, on the other hand, the establishment of such a register will improve the level of protection of privacy by providing, as mentioned above, clear rules on the processing and deletion of such data; The introduction of the investigation register will ensure that the personal data, the DNA profiles, are stored at Kripos, who is their data controller. Like the rest of the rules on DNA, the proposal opens up the possibility for the King to lay down detailed rules on the investigation register and also the privacy aspects, such as: is in the process of being deleted. When we introduce this type of register, we get a structure around these tests that helps to ensure that just the privacy considerations can be taken care of. The investigational reasons are safeguarded by the fact that they are then tested against other registers. The proposal will not lead to increased costs of significant importance as neither increases access to DNA samples nor increases the amount of samples to be actually taken. The proposed changes should, in our opinion, enter into force at the same time as the other changes concerning the extension of the DNA registry. I therefore propose that it be left to the King to set the time for such entry into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1450	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 656]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1466	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. This shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1477	As the proposers state, there is a broad consensus that many former orphans and children from special schools have been subjected to serious care failure and abuse. Many have had their childhood and adult life ruined. I have met many of them, and read accounts from a good part of them. The 2003 survey, which was appointed by the State, concluded that care failure and serious physical, mental and sexual violations of orphanages and special schools took place between 1945 and 1980. The abuses are numerous and serious and were perpetrated by both employees and older children in the institutions. NOU 2004:23 Children's home and special schools under the lupen take a tragic side of Norwegian child protection history. For the treatment of St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005 Replacement schemes for children in children's homes and special schools for children with disabilities The Stortinget decided that these persons should receive an adapted compensation scheme through the Grandhold's lavish substitute scheme. This compensation scheme does not curtail the possibility for former orphans to claim compensation from the State and, where appropriate, to bring proceedings in accordance with normal compensation rules. It is in the context of the latter system that the proposers wish to see a change in the law relating to the rules on limitation. Proposals propose that limitation periods cannot be applied in respect of claims against public authorities in relation to orphanages in the period 1945-1980. As noted both by the proposers and by the Minister of Justice in his comments on the draft representative in a letter dated 25 April of this year, both the Justice Committee and the Family and Culture Committee have dealt with this issue several times in cases against the State. An overall Justiscomite pronounces in Innst. O. No 18 for 1995-1996 concerning the limitation of claims for damages: ‘The Committee points out that the State has the opportunity to waive an objection of limitation, and that this is also done almost without exception in practice where the injured person would otherwise suffer innocent losses. The Committee would stress the importance of consistent follow-up to this practice, not least in cases where public claims are made for maladministration or misconduct against children and young people. The Committee considers that it would be clearly unreasonable for injured parties to be met with a claim for limitation in such cases and asks the Ministry to ensure that the rules on limitation of limitation are applied in accordance with the assumptions. The Committee would point out that the consideration of the possibility of damages to be remedied and, after a period of time, that the act of damage will not lead to new claims do not have the same weight when it comes to the public being responsible for damages. ‘... In the letter to the Committee on Justice of 25 April, the Minister of Justice, inter alia: that the State follows this ‘careline’. The Minister of Justice went on to say in his letter: ‘Each case and each case complex must, however, be assessed in a concrete manner. The considerations justifying the parent institution's claims may also apply to claims against the State. Any adverse outcome of the rules could be remedied in a way other than by amendment of the law, for example by the government failing to invoke obsolescence. ‘... We share the view of the Minister of Justice, but will, as in the setting, clarify that we assume that the comment of a collective family, cultural and administrative committee in the Innst. S. No 217 for 2004-2005 is included as a weighty and important element in the country’s assessment of whether to invoke limitation. The note reads as follows: ‘The Committee supports the assessment by the Department, but recommends that limitation is not applied to matters relating to this group. ‘... Finally, I would like to make it clear that the SV has been concerned about the flexibility and adaptability of the cheap compensation scheme. It is important that the procedure is reduced. Today it's way too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1501	This is not a good day for me. It really upsets me that a majority in Stortinget departs from its previous decisions and comments and chooses to vote a new point 4 of Section 9 of the Parental Act. What are we really doing? What are we actually doing? What are the consequences of this, and how can you see the orphanage children in your eyes after this? We created some expectations in relation to the limitation period when this case was dealt with in 2005. The rapporteur spoke about the precautionary principle, and so did the Council of State in its letter. The precautionary principle would have been introduced by the State in 1945 and not now in 2008. I assume that everyone who votes on this proposal today has actually read NOU 2004:23 Children's home and special schools under the magnifying glass. Here we can read about one terrible human destiny after another, about people who have destroyed the whole childhood and the rest of their lives, people who have not been able to live any longer, and who have taken their lives to avoid dealing with the state that imposed on them in their childhood. When the Stortinge dealt with this matter in 2005, it was important for the entire Committee, for their sakes, not to make it a partisan mark, nor to promote various proposals that could help to rip up different life stories. Now it turns out that that's exactly what we have to do anyway-- three years later. So over the three years, you've been waiting. I see that part of the assault that is once again taking place in relation to the children of children's homes may be due to the proceedings in Stortinget. In 2005, the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs dealt with the matter. So now it's come to the Justice Committee. There won't be anything complete in it, there won't be continuity in what we're doing. I would like to refer to a comment that is very central to this question, from a unanimous committee in the innermost. S. No 217 for 2004-2005: ‘The Committee supports the assessment by the Department, but recommends that limitation is not applied to matters relating to this group. ‘... We're not talking about everybody else. We're not talking about children of sams or tats or war children. We're talking about the orphanage children. That's this group we're referring to. Unfortunately, one will not stand by one’s decisions and remarks. If the Progress Party had known this in 2005, and I am absolutely sure that it had known this in 2005, we would have had a majority decision from 2005 with concrete proposals that would have changed the Parental Act already then. But because we were going to take into account those who were in the gallery, because we were going to make it smooth and easy and not take part in it politically, we chose to do it another way - that the State Council, after the National Council of the Ministry of Children and Gender, has chosen to ignore. It is therefore not only discouraging to see that we are not supported by our proposal, it is simply a new breach of promise and yet another heartbreaking violation against them we told them that the premise was that limitation should not be applied in matters which covered this group. I would like to ask how SV can do this after having been so clear about where they stood, at the latest in the interview debate earlier this year. Are they talking to two tongues? Didn't they mean any of what they said in the interpellation debate? Do they not have any understanding of the consequences of the decision that is being taken today for some of the orphans? I don't understand how the Storting can commit enough an assault on these people without the slightest hint of bad conscience. This is shameful - really shameful! I am therefore addressing the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1525	Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestion she herself made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1528	The rapporteur has made a clear statement on the substance of the matter. The right supports the majority, which considers it inappropriate to include a special reference to a special group in a general law. However, what makes this case very difficult and special is that it has been raised on the basis that the State has now invoked limitation in a matter which has been the subject of debate in Stortinget on several occasions and where the Stortinget has been the last person to discuss St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005 unanimously - I repeat unanimously - have joined in the comments that the limitation period should be set aside for matters relating to children in orphanages and special schools. In fact, this means that today's Minister of Justice, as a member of the previous Stortinget, has agreed that the State should not invoke limitation in such cases. The Council of State should therefore reply as to whether he still stands at his previous position, and what he will do now to rectify the fact that the State has claimed obsolescence in an orphanage case. Since the case is not finished in the legal system, it is not yet too late to give the state's lawyers new directives in line with the Storting's will. The history of the Norwegian welfare state has some dark, gloomy chapters. Care failure and abuse of children in children’s homes and special schools are unfortunately such a chapter. Therefore, it is important that the large community now takes legal action and does not commit a new wrong against orphans who consider that they are entitled to compensation from the State, by refusing redress. Instead of going the law road, the Right Storting invites you to repeat its previous position. I take up proposal No. 2 on behalf of the Right. It is my hope that a total increase today can be part of this clear request to the Government to ensure that the State does not invoke a limitation in matters relating to compensation for children in children's homes and special schools in the period 1945-1980. It is therefore not necessary for the State to act in this kind of matters of limitation in a different way and less responsive than municipalities that have experienced such claims being addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1544	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the suggestion she made. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1547	The representative of Woldseth referred to the 2004 NOU. As she correctly pointed out, it is a terrible reading that such a terrible offense has been committed up to not so long ago. Since I was in the department that time, I also know a lot of the story that the representative Woldseth was in. We don't have to repeat it. It is unfortunately too good for itself. We from the Christian People's Party are fully committed to what we did in the previous period. We vote for the proposal of Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Right, in the light of more legal considerations. However, if the Minister of Justice cannot confirm that, in the type of cases before which an infringement has been committed, the State will not commit a new offence by renouncing due to limitation, if he does not guarantee that that instruction will not be followed, then until the vote, we will assess whether to support the proposal of the Progress Party. If the Council of State can't give such confirmation, unfortunately it suggests that we have to take it directly into the law. If the Council of State confirms that limitation will not be invoked, we will take him on the floor and support the proposal of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1554	As has been pointed out by several, this case has a history. I think the representatives of Woldseth, Aspaker and Syversen have commented on this in a strong and clear way. I have the same idea as the representative Syversen. I would like to signal that the Left supports the Right's proposal. We do this because, as the representative Syversen said, we want to get a signal from the Council of State that the state is going to act harshly and not call on the parent. If not, the left will also be open to us using the law, even if we don't want to do so in general and for legal reasons. I have to say that part of the compensation cases with which I have had my say in my former life as the Council of State were difficult. But it was important in a lot of ways that we went very far. When I know that some municipalities e.g. goes very far in cleaning up, I don't think the state can stand any longer behind. I'm not going to use strong words, because I used up my words when I tried to make an effort for those ropes of war that were so unfortunate that they were just in North Africa's captivity of war, and that you wouldn't take with me when you did right and wrong for those who suffered at Holen School -- which I think was good. I'm talking a little low. That doesn't mean that my position isn't clear. I've prepared what the Left wants to do. We are awaiting what the State Council of Storberget now says in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1567	Many of the cases of extraordinary and ordinary settlements that have been the subject of recent debate in Norway have made a deep impression on most of us. Let there be no doubt about it! This has meant, among other things: have received municipal settlements, also for the group we are discussing here. This has led to the extension of the cheap substitutes system, which the Stortinget initiates and largely makes decisions for too many groups. Then it's the last track we're discussing here. It is the pure claims that are raised against the public, where we have had a long and persistent discussion on the issue of limitation. In my letter to the Committee, I have pointed out precisely the facts on which the State is dealing with concrete claims. You clearly work on the precautionary principle that I believe has settled down, among other things. in the management of these matters by the Storting. The precautionary approach to the claim of limitation has, as many have been involved, been referred to on several occasions, at the end of the Innst. S. No 186 for 2006-2007 at the examination of a proposal for a representative, Document No. 8:35 for 2006-2007, where the majority of the Judicial Committee stated that there was no need to amend Section 9 of the Legacy Act. The Committee said, inter alia:\t\t You can change ‘The majority emphasises the Minister of Justice’s comment that, after his impression in practice, the State follows the ‘careline’ outlined in the above-mentioned committee position Innst. O. No 18 [[1995-96]] I say this because here one points to a precautionary line -- no absolutes as it is in the bill -- that makes it so that the state has to evaluate it individually on each occasion. That's why we don't think it's right -- as I also understand the majority now -- to make some modification of the retirement law as it's claimed in the proposal here. Then there will be more challenges for us, more groups who want to comply with this law of limitation, and which we do not think is appropriate in relation to the considerations that the rules of limitation should actually take care of. Since this is a matter which has been very much raised on the basis of a specific matter that we can difficult to address - it is for legal proceedings - these must be my comments on the bill which is now on the table to amend the parental pension law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1583	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1587	Former state councillor Ramin-Osmundsen said when we had this interpellation, that a comment in Stortinget didn't mean anything. It is in the light of what we are now promoting a legislative amendment. In fact, that is what needs to be said, the then state council Ramin-Osmundsen. But I would like to ask the Council of State: what did the party of the Council of State mean in June 2005? It's been three years. So there was a unanimous increase in support of the comment that "it is said that the limitation is not applied to matters relating to this group". Then we only talk about the group of orphanages and children in special schools from 1945 to 1980. Did they mean anything else than they do today? Now the Council of State refuses, despite a remark made by the party of the Council of State, that it was assumed that the limitation was not enforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1594	It is quite clear from what I said now instead of the pulpit, but also from the remarks made by the majority, what you're referring to, and what you put in the precautionary line that the state practices. Among other things, I have referenced to the Innst. S. No 186 for 2006-2007, which clearly refers to this precautionary line - no absolutes, but it is a clear precautionary line. With respect for all the others seeking compensation for loss of childhood, but also for traumas caused in adult life, many of the considerations that apply when considering the regulatory framework surrounding these include: What kind of compensation has been paid through cheap payments, through municipal compensation. So this is a field that I mean to a large extent also evolves. But the government's line in the matter of limitation is a clear precautionary line, which I believe the state is following.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1601	This seems to be a precautionary line so that the State will not have to assess compensation - one will avoid a factual test of liability. The Storting had yesterday to deal with a matter that is not different from this, namely, a war pension for children who experienced the bombing during the war at Holen School. Then there was great commitment from all parties. There was a government council here yesterday that has written to Stortinget that he will change the practice. Now there's been a call from several parties here. I repeat: will the Council of State in this matter clarify and confirm that there will be a change in the practice of orphans - and there are many of them, as stated in NOU 2004: 23 - so that they may try their cases and not be rendered obsolete?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1608	My answer is the same. So there's a caretaker line in the assessment of whether to invoke limitation in these cases. If the representative of Sortevik had taken the time to go through the case complexes - both locally, in the case of reimbursement of expenses, and also in the case of state-owned facilities - he would have seen that this care line was being followed. It does not prevent us from getting into situations where obsolescence is claimed, and I find it quite difficult, and also reasonably special, to have to go into and assess here in the Storting individual cases that are pending in the courts. I'll give it away. I don't think it's the right forum to take it in either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1615	There are issues of great importance to the one we're talking about. I've been studying the letter from the Council of State to the Committee. With regard to the comment on the comment on which no claim for limitation is made, the expression "a central moment" has been used for those comments. So my question is, does the Council of State think that the committee's comment not to invoke limitation is merely indicative?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1622	I believe that what has been outlined in particular in the last majority comment by the Committee on Justice, and to which I have referred, is the central issue of whether the State should invoke limitation. There's a reference to a caretaker line, which I've specified several times, which doesn't mean you go as far as the bill today says, where you're going to put an absolute bomb in order to be able to rely on parenthood. Then I also find reason to point out that in these cases, as in all the other claims that have been assessed locally and in the cheap substitutes committees, it is not that you stand without compensation. Many of these cases have actually been resolved through the local settlements and through the settlement provided in the cheap substitutes committees. It would, in my opinion, carry the wrong place if we were now to start picking out one group and dragging them into the parental law. I believe that is a good reason to do as the majority does in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1629	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1634	This is briefly summed up shamefully, shamefully and shamefully! When none of the other parties support our proposal for legislative change, it is shameful. When none of the other parties do anything with the law to correct this unfairness to those orphans who have been seriously abused in public care, it is shameful, and I can't easily conclude in any other way than that the Council of State is talking away from the heart of the matter. The essence of the matter is that the state claims to be a parent. It is not the case that this proposal has been promoted in order to promote a specific case from a specific plaintiff. But it's probably one of the few, maybe the only, who's come from the many orphanages this NOU is about. To be a little personal, as I've been in this proceedings at previous times, I've actually followed the orphanage case before it became a NOU, and before it became a national scandal-- yeah, I'll call it that. It began unfortunately in Bergen, and that was where it was rolled up. It's quite right that the Council of State says that some of the people who have suffered congestion have been compensated for cheapness, but that's not what this is about. As a group of family committees have previously pointed out, the fact that you have been compensated for cheapness should not prevent you from getting your own case tested. One such case is under test. It's been tried twice, and the state claims to be a parent. The comments of the Lawyers' Court can be read in the setting: ‘However, the law of law would point out that it does not share the view of the State that liability for the State as a supervisory authority cannot be justified. ‘... I'll take care of it. Again, I cannot avoid attaching the line back to yesterday, in case of bulk treatment and not odelstijning. There was a great commitment yesterday that someone after 60 years might get an uproar and some kind of compensation through a war pension. The ones that apply in this case are many, I repeat it. The NOU on orphanages in Norway and their shameful treatment have shown that there are many. Unfortunately, those that apply today do not receive the same attention and commitment. We two proponents from the Progress Party have tried many different solutions. We have recently had an interpellation and have been clearly informed that a committee comment from a grand jury does not matter at all when it comes to measuring the compensation and handling of claims. That is why we have chosen to go along with a legislative amendment proposal, and I hope that more people will support us in that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1654	The President has some doubts about the use of the word 'disgusting', which has now been used several times, is entirely within the parliamentary world, but says nothing more than that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1657	I respect the commitment of the representative Woldseth to the cause and to the victims. It is very commendable, and the representative Woldseth knows perfectly well that SV shares her vision and experience fully. SV is still standing at the comments of the family committee and all our opinions in this room and outside this room. We want to work for the victims to get their justice and upliftment, and that as soon as possible. We have full confidence in the Government and have no reason to doubt -- not least after the Minister of Justice's assurances in his letter and in the Chamber today -- that the Storting's clear instructions and intentions are to be respected by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1664	When I heard the case rapporteur now, I wondered if it was the same post from the Council of State and the same line change as we had been here and heard a short time ago. I would say that there is every reason to doubt whether the Council of State will follow up on what has been a total accumulation of expressed will in these kinds of cases. I experience a state council that backs up, and I experience a state council that is extremely unclear on how he will handle these kinds of issues. From the right, we have put in a proposal that would give the Council of State an opportunity to confirm what Stortinget has previously said on this kind of matter. The size has given this type of case a special treatment because it is thought that matters are of such a special nature. The chance to actually confirm that this is a will from the Storing that he wanted to follow up, the council here has abused the degrees. Then, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Left and Right, I just want to inform you that we will come back to this question in another way. Of course, we are going to vote in favour of the proposal that is in the Chamber here today. We don't want to change the law, because we see that as inappropriate, but we don't think we're done with this question, with the negative answer that the Council of State has given here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1674	The progress party does not consider itself to be finished with the matter either. Nor do I believe that either the Stortinget or the Norwegian big community will be done with the matter. This case, which is a trial case, and which is referred to in the proposal for a representative, will continue. I assume that those who participate in this debate are aware that it is appealed to the Supreme Court. I assume that the participants in this debate will assume that this trial case from one of those who are at the forefront of the far too many orphanages in Norway who have unfortunately suffered from public oversight is going to go further, outside the Norwegian legal system if necessary. So this is going to be a case that ends in the European Court of Human Rights. It's going to be a disgrace, again, in Norwegian law and Norwegian law. It is regrettable - perhaps it is a wrong parliamentary expression - that it is at least strange to hear a Council of State that will not be careful at all, so that it benefits them. Let me stress that there is much more to it than this one person in one case. But it's often the case that someone has to go ahead, and in this group of many who have destroyed their childhood under public supervision, there are some who have managed to get up and pattern strength to go ahead with a wish on behalf of many, namely to get their case individually tried in court. I think it has little to do with measuring money replacements. But on the other hand, I believe that it is a burning desire to get through a confession in the Norwegian judicial system, a confession and a confirmation that will in fact also be perceived as an excuse for the fact that in the public, in the state, care has suffered a serious overload and gross injustice and lost its childhood. That's why I'm quite surprised to meet the position of the Council of State here for the best, especially on the basis of -- I repeat it for the third time -- the proceedings in the Grand Duchy yesterday, where all parties were agreed to clean up, where we also met a Council of State which had been thoroughly involved in the matter, and which stated in writing to the Committee during yesterday's proceedings that there is a basis for changing practice. The prudence that this Council of State in this matter speaks so much and so loud about is a prudence that affects it that has already been affected by injustice. It's outrageous.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1683	First of all, it was good to hear that you are standing by what you have said. I would therefore also like you to be able to support our proposal in this matter, especially because it is a Council of States that has told us that a comment does not matter, and that on the basis of it we have made a legislative amendment. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like anyone will support it either. The Council of State told the representative of Sortevik that he should have read the local material and also for what has happened at national level. Then I have to tell and inform the Council of State that it is thanks to the representative Sortevik that these matters came up at all – the first time in Bergen and then over the whole country. Without the effort he made, this would have been just a silent shame on the national colourmap. The representatives from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party say they're not done with the case. No, no, no. It is terribly sad that we cannot get support for our proposal for a change of law today. In June 2005, we thought we had finished the case. It's been three years. The Labour Party is no longer at what they said in 2005, i.e. three years ago. And why would we be done with this in 2005? Why, then, did we not promote any proposal? Because there were very many of these people who were sitting at the gallery, who got torn up again painful memories that were bad and traumatic, and who no one had heard them tell about before. We were supposed to have finished the case in June 2005. That's why it's awfully sad. Like the representative Sortevik, I have followed these matters from Bergen and over to the state. We've met an assault on assault. They don't get a cheap ticket the first time, they have to apply again because they were refused because the terms were not used. Then it'll be a year -- another assault and another assault. Should it never end the suffering of these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1694	Elisabeth Aspaker has explained how the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left intend to pursue this matter, and we do so in the light of the Council's response. I can then understand the frustration expressed by the representatives of Woldseth and Sortevik that there is no support for the minority proposal put forward. But I have to say that it would have helped little if both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left had supported the proposal. It's still not a majority. I believe that with more thought, the majority parties will also see the matter a little differently from the reality of the Council of State's response, namely that the expressed will of the Storting is a kind of reading guide for the Government. It presupposes and believes that a majority in the Grand Duchy on a later occasion will do something about it, and then it's better with a majority than with a minority. That's why we're doing what we're doing, in the hope that it can be a different solution than what's outlined here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1701	Politics is often and largely about respect, or lack of respect. For me, this case is a bad example of respect. So it's like the Storting has been clear about how to deal with this, but you see the opposite. Then I register that the representative Chaudhry from SV forefects that this has been taken care of - you have to sort it out. At the same time he runs now, with respect to reporting, from his responsibility and hiding behind a council that is so unclear that--yes, I should perhaps not use any term for which I am being charged, so I shall leave it. But it's disappointing, to say it mildly. The paradox is that people outside this room trust that they will be taken care of by the systems that we are responsible for when something wrong happens. And then they actually experience afterwards that the worst opponent they have is the state and the state apparatus. What is an instrument and a tool to take care of the population is undoubtedly the worst thing you can be exposed to in some contexts. We have a big deal going on about the divers who left the basis for the wealth we discuss here quite often. Many of them sacrificed life and health to join in and start the Norwegian oil adventure. They feel ill-treated, so ill-treated that they actually go to court with the state. It is possible that I am wrong, but it tells something about how others perceive the state and the state's role. It is, once again, possible that I am naive, but I had a belief that the state should be a co-player and not an opponent. I think it's going to be twice as bad when the state is the one that distributes the red cards. We sometimes discuss in this room human vision, we discuss attitudes. Then it's probably like maybe more people in this room should see themselves in the mirror and think about it: am I doing the right thing today based on what I'm experiencing as interpersonal, or am I doing it because it's politically expected of me? The representative of Sortevik used the word "skimmed". As a northerner, I might have escaped with something worse, but I'm not going to challenge fate either, President, so I'm going to leave it alone. But the Left Party, the Christian Party and the Right have said that they are not done with the matter. Arne Sortevik has said that we are not done with the matter. So the only thing that's done with this case is the government. Or isn't it like that, Mr. Chaudhry, that you're done with the case? And in that case, it would have been interesting if you made clear what you expected the government to actually do, and not just hide behind the answer from the council. It's too thin, and it's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1716	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 656]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1724	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 2-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1731	During the debate, Olemic Thommessen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose that self-employed persons, regardless of whether additional insurance has been taken, be entitled to: - 100 pst. coverage of care allowance from day 1 [[up to 6 G]] This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1809	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1819	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1826	During the debate, Mr Horne presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the changes to the Criminal Procedures Act on the transfer of competence to convene acquittal and to process applications for acquittal after 2 years and to return the matter to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner. ‘... This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1977	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e1987	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e2118	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e2128	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e2135	During the debate, Mr Horne presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 12 shall be replaced by the following: police and customs and charging authorities when exercising border control and other controls. 'The first thing to do is to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e2146	The Christian People's Party supports the proposal, just so it's clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e2151	It is then stated that the proposal made on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right is also supported by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e2336	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e2346	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e2353	During the debate, Mr Horne presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘ Paragraph 17, first paragraph, the following new third sentence is added: The Public Prosecutor's Office shall not require any person surrendered if the relationship has been committed on the territory of another Nordic country and it does not constitute an offence under the law of that country. ‘... It is to be welcomed by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e2788	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e2798	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e2805	In the course of the debate, Mr Dahl put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e3015	For the new Section 13-1(b), an alternative proposal from the Progress Party and the Right is available. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 16 June 1989 69 on insurance contracts new Sections 13 to 1 (b) are replaced by the following: the company cannot request information about sickness that has not given rise to symptoms or signs of illness in the last 10 years. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e3037	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e3047	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e3096	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e3106	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e3113	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's - proposal No. 1 by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 2, from the right, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the State does not invoke limitation in matters relating to the compensation of children in children’s homes and special schools in the period 1945-1980, in line with the comments of a Joint Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs of the Innst. S. No 217 [[2004-2005]] This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: «Agreements to the Law amending Law 18 May 1979 No 18 on the limitation of claims I [[Law of limitation]] In Law 18 May 1979 No. 18 on the limitation of claims, paragraph 9 shall be replaced by the following: the paragraph shall not apply to claims against public authorities in relation to orphanages in the period 1945 to 1980. [[Law of limitation]] Il Law enters into force immediately. ‘... This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-11-lower-2.ana.ud1493e3170	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? It hasn't happened. - The meeting's been cancelled.
