ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e68	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Hairy Rivers For the county of Nordland: Toril Ø. Hanssen For the Westfold province: Jan Fredrik Vogt From the meeting of the alternate of the State of Oppland, Morten Ørsal Johansen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative of Thore A. Nistad, from 13 November to 20 November, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the State of Oppland, Hanne Maren Blåfjelldal, are called to meet during the period of leave. Hanne Maren Blåfjelldal is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e103	Hanne Maren Blåfjelldal is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e111	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e114	On behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Jørund Rytman and myself, I would like to propose a package of measures to meet the crew crisis in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e119	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e135	The next ten years in the Norwegian economy will be the ten years we are preparing to run a society effectively, while preparing for a significantly increased expenditure structure, as regards both the number of people and expenditure related to the elderly population in Norway. The next 12 years until 2020 is the period we have to provide an efficient, well-driven Norway that solves more tasks with more quality, while at the same time there is room for lifting more well-being. For me, it is essential that policies today build a society that operates public services with the best possible quality at the lowest possible cost, and not least free up more labour for services. Because we're going to need more labour — more hands, both for hospitals and care for the elderly — in the years to come. One of the important things to do is always to have a critical attitude about how we manage and use money in the public sector. If we do not, the need for labour and the need for money will be derived from the private sector in a way that undermines long-term well-being. Then it is the competitive business that needs to provide more labour and taxes to finance and solve the tasks that we all want to do in the future. That's why the question of how we manage the money we take is a major political question. I also believe that this is why the Prime Minister of the Stoltenberg I government, Jens Stoltenberg, was concerned that we should modernise Norway. We in the Right believe that much in the government base that the Stoltenberg I government had in terms of modernisation was important and necessary in the future. But the biggest change we've seen in the last seven years of Norwegian policy, Prime Minister Stoltenberg's lack of commitment to what he thought was the most important thing when he joined in 2000, namely to get changes, modernisation and improved management of Norwegian resources. So Norway is at the top of the world in resource use in many areas. It can't just be explained by the fact that we have a decentralised structure. We do it in school – and it's only the United States that spends more money on health care, without taking it as an example. Although I see that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is on his way to learning from American health, it's still that we're at the top of spending money in health care, we're at the top of spending money at school. Yes, we are at the top in many areas – not unnatural, because we are also a rich country – but we cannot say that we are at the top in terms of results from the same services when measuring ourselves against others. On international rankings, we do not reach the top in terms of results. Neither health services nor schools — and most of those who have been waiting for trains for a long time — mean that we have not reached the top in the transport sector either, given what we get out of the means we use there. In my opinion, this government has as its least common multiple, and perhaps as its only main reason, a desire to spend more money in the public sector. This is why it has scolded many other projects related to conversion and reorganization in Norway. It's not forward-looking. That is why the Right has said that in the area of modernisation, in the field of research and development, investment for the future, this government has lost years in Norwegian political development. Yes, we have had three lost years and are at risk of four lost years compared to the 2020 target of meeting the challenges of quality in elderly care and health care. I have now challenged the Prime Minister for an answer to what he has as a plan to achieve these long-term objectives. What measures should the Government now take to ensure that we better manage resources in the public sector? Let me point to four main areas where it's necessary. Firstly, it is necessary to create a public sector where the incentives in each sector, for example: in business health enterprises, or in schools, it is to be profitable and perceived as appropriate, so that it is also socio-economically profitable investments. One of the first things this government did when it joined was to reverse the proposal of the previous government to create a neutral VAT system in the state sector, as we have done for the municipalities. Why did we do that? We did it because it makes what is socio-economic and business-economic profitable the same thing. So now the NHO Service has recently published a report, because they think it's 720 million. Health in the south-east can save on putting off competition. But why does the outsourcing stop? Well, just because as long as it's 25 pst. VAT on these services, it is economically or economically unprofitable for hospitals to put some of the non-core tasks on the market, to get others to do so. So you're going to go the other way. We have now received a letter from a company in Nordland complaining that Ullevål Hospital is currently discussing taking the laundry services back indoors – not because it is socio-economically profitable, but because it is business-economically profitable because of the VAT system. This means that district work sites in Northern Ireland should be closed in order for us to build places at Ring 3 in Oslo. No, it's not the right modernisation process. It can be said that it is bureaucratic or technical to talk about this, but if we don't get the same directions, the socio-economic motives get the same as the corporate economics in the public sector, yes, it goes wrong – then we use too much resources, and we don't use taxpayers' money in a sensible way. The second point that is important is that in order to raise quality, we need to do it both by raising public sector knowledge of how to drive well and by raising quality through transparency of results. I think the government should have launched a continuous transparency reform and performance-oriented reform in the public sector – again, not because it is the bureaucratic one, which can be an important element, but because one has to learn something from one another. Specter has recently published studies showing that comparable hospitals have almost 100 percent difference in cost structure. From my time as a municipal minister, I know that within the same municipality, the nursing home has 70-80 pst. different cost structure, but they do not know what the others are doing – transparency is not good enough. So the government has reversed openness in terms of results in schools, and it hasn't realized what we were working on, that we should have more transparency about results in hospitals. The third point is to accept that we need private icebergs and diversity in many sectors where the public sector operates, because it contributes to more innovation, it contributes to more new developments in the public sector. It is such that very many new and good offers are first established by fire companies starting outside, and then the public sector adopts them afterwards. One of the most shocking statements I think Right-wing people know about was Rita Ottervik's statement in the 2003 election campaign, when she was confronted with the fact that people living in the two competitive hospitals in Trondheim experienced it as better than in the public services. So they had the best score in Trondheim of all. Rita Ottervik said, "But that's not the point." – I visited these institutions both before and after they were re-communalised. Then the head of the recommunalized company, who came from the municipality, said, "We've learned a lot from the operation of the private sector, because they operate in a different way, and now we're adopting the principles into the whole care sector in the municipality of Trondheim." It is therefore that innovation and innovation take place more outside the public sector than within the public sector, perhaps because they are better at decentralising the authority of those who work there. However, the systematic attack that has taken place through the way this government operates in relation to the private sector has contributed to the fact that many offers that have been good for citizens, and given a better offer, have actually lost momentum, and that means less innovation and innovation compared to the public sector in the future. The fourth is that this government torpedoed all the work started in connection with administrative levels and structural changes in the municipal sector. It is not possible in the future to get better child protection, to get better health care, without also discussing municipal structure. Interaction problems, child protection challenges, are also linked to the way municipalities are structured, and the number of municipalities we have in Norway. The Labour Party has previously been a member of the Right Party when we have discussed municipal structure. They were fellow players when the Right wanted to give carrots to municipalities, because when you had a volunteer as a principle, at least you would have something that made you want to get something on the municipal structure. The Labour Party has failed there – they have allowed the Centre Party to take the entire municipal sector hostage during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e165	I am pleased that the representative Solberg is concerned about the quality of the public sector. As she says, both more money and better money are needed to ensure a strong public sector. There is an important support in the Norwegian model. It is therefore also important what the representative says in his interpellation, that our government has set a new record ‘in terms of resources, measured in terms of money and the number of employees’ in the public sector. This is due not least to a deliberate election by the current government: we have opted for large cuts in taxes and instead prioritised public welfare. A strong and good care sector, a good health service, good and cheap kindergartens, high-quality public schools and a education system offering them all are the main common welfare solutions on which the Norwegian model is based. We have built a community through a strong and good public sector. We share the goods and ensure a stable and predictable business environment. A good economic policy has given us low unemployment and high employment. A strong public sector makes it possible for the community to realise visions, ideas and solidarity far beyond what individual enterprise or market can handle alone. Over the last few weeks, we have seen the importance of a strong public sector as a stabiliser in troubled times. That's what our government wants to expand, renew and strengthen when we say that we want to fight for the Norwegian model. We who are the strongest defenders of the public sector must also be its foremost critics and its foremost renewers. That is why my answer to Solberg's question is that I believe the same thing now about the renewal of the public sector that I meant in March 2000. If we stand firm on old solutions that do not work, then we weaken confidence in Community solutions, then we weaken welfare and increase inequalities. We have to be constantly concerned that the public sector is doing the right thing and that it is doing the right thing. For this reason, our previous government implemented a number of reforms in the public sector. We carried out extensive renewal of both police, defence and higher education. We are now following up on this renewal work. The biggest and most important reform in this ageing period is the pension reform. The other very comprehensive welfare reform we have implemented, which is a follow-up to what the previous government is also working on, is the Nav reform. Both of these reforms are essential for us to meet the major welfare challenges we face in the years to come. The new pension system shall be sustainable economically and socially, motivate work, have a good distribution and gender equality profile and be simple and comprehensible. The pension reform strengthens the working line and combats poverty by the disappearance of the minimum pension trap. It strengthens working life because it promotes access to labour. Retirement reform is modern and in time, because it increases the chances of combining work and retirement. The Nav reform is also a very important reform. As a community, we cannot live with the fact that 700,000 people of pre-employment age are out of work. Getting more into action is essential for the well-being of individuals and for society. The Nav budget manages one third of the state budget through schemes such as unemployment benefits, economic social assistance, resettlement, pensions, child benefit and cash support. When we go through this reform, we talk about one of the biggest administrative reforms in recent times. It is about fundamental and complex reforms, which can be implemented precisely because we work in the framework of the Norwegian model, in good dialogue with the employees. The change and renewal work is both about structures and about content. Over the last decades, it has been mainly about structure. This applies, for example: the large conversions of state companies such as the NSB, Posten, the Railways and Vegvesenet. This applies to the health services, with the fixed medical reform, and the whole hospital reform, and to the school – 13-year-old schooling and schooling for 6-year-olds. These have been major and important structural reforms. In the years to come, I think the main direction for the renewal work will be more about the content of the structures. Let me talk about two new reforms where the renewal of content becomes important. We have presented our own report on quality in school. We're increasing the effort in school -- we're increasing the effort in early school, and we're increasing the number of hours in Norwegian, math and English at kindergarten. We reinforce the reading and billing training, and we introduce screening tests in reading and billing at several levels in primary school. Good teachers may be the most important criterion for a good school, with quality and discipline. That is why we set up a permanent system for the further training of teachers. We have also announced our own schoolleader education, a national education offer for principals. The government has improved and further developed the national samples and other samples. The results of the tests are well and constructively used for quality development. There is also the renewal of the public sector. The government is in favour of transparency about the quality of school, but at the same time believes that the results must be used so that they do not conflict with privacy. That's why we're publishing the results as mean and standard deviation. This way we avoid that the tests trigger strong resistance among teachers and students. This is also how we avoid that the tests are manipulated by the fact that the weakest students are released, so that they do not destroy for the school. The national samples will be maintained. They work, and they have to be used to improve the quality of teaching. The main content reform we are now facing is the interaction reform in the healthcare system. As I have already mentioned, we have carried out extensive reforms of the structure of the health care system. Everyone's got their own permanent. Hospitals have been transferred to the state and have been significantly expanded and reinforced over the past few years. Now it is time to look at the content of services and their interaction. We have to do this because it is in line with what I said at the outset: we have to make sure that public services are both of high quality and meet the needs of the population at all times. The need for healthcare also changes – because the population changes, because technology changes, because medicine and knowledge change, but also because the requirements for follow-up, quality and service change. Authorities will provide even more improved treatment. We have to go through that, for example. an interaction reform. But it assumes that we're using the resources in the right way and in the right areas. It requires continuous renewal and conversion. This is why the Government has launched an interaction reform in the healthcare system. We will review the use of the billions we spend each year on health and care services. Our perception is that we're using a lot of these heads incorrectly. We don't get enough health for each of the heads. We have a good health and care service offer in Norway. For the majority of users, it works well. There's a lot of effort every day by thousands of employees, but we can get even better. First of all, we can do this by ensuring that all the institutions, all the different parts of this sector and all the levels in the treatment chain cooperate better than they do today. They have to interact for the benefit of the patient, and they have to do it because we have a system and a structure that facilitates it. Today, a lot of good interaction is taking place despite the system. We have to make sure that in the future it happens because of the system. Then there will be even better and even more interaction for the benefit of the patient. Next year, the Stortinge will grant more than SEK 200 billion for health and care. Some will probably make suggestions of 1, 2 or 3 additional billions, but my claim is that the quality of Norwegian hospitals does not depend on the last two billions; it depends primarily on the first 200 – if we use them properly. Therefore, in April 2009, the Government will present the interaction reform aimed at providing patients and users with a better and more comprehensive health and care provision. We will then present a proposal for a new economic and legal system to ensure that municipalities and hospitals choose interaction for the benefit of the patient. They shall select interaction because of, not despite, the system. This reform will be about funding, legislation, ICT and ICT solutions, and it is absolutely necessary. It affects the entire treatment chain – from the municipalities to the counties to the state, from permanent to hospital. As I have stated, the renewal and modernisation of the public sector is one of the most important issues for our government. The public sector must always develop, as the population and needs evolve. The public sector must always be able to change because the requirements of users change. A strong public sector is one of the pillars of the Norwegian model. Therefore, the public sector must be strengthened, not weakened. We do that by making sure that it gets the resources it needs. Therefore it would be irresponsible to cut taxes to the richest. Therefore, it would also be irresponsible not to renew and improve the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e211	Let me thank the Prime Minister for the answer, which probably gave me cause for concern – not with the individual matters that the Prime Minister spoke about, but with regard to what he did not want to talk about. We agree that both the pension reform and the Nav reform are important reforms for the future, but it is not in itself modernisation work of the kind that, among other things, is. promises that we are at the top in terms of resource use, without being at the top in terms of results. It's a little bit more day-to-day work, where we make sure that we have things to do together, where we make sure that we have transparency and knowledge of quality and how someone achieves better quality, where we make sure that the motives that the individual head of a public institution has become socio-economical right motives and not wrong with this, and where, of course, we have to have a significant degree of transparency. Then I want to say one thing. Some of the double standards are, we think, quite right that we rank schools according to the poor working environment or the scale of bullying problems they may have, but not how and to what extent they are able to achieve their main task, the knowledge dissemination in Norway. But it is especially when a minister in this government, who has been opposed to openness in terms of school results, has no problem hanging out the school that students have considered to be the one with the biggest bullying problems, and praises the school that has the least. If you want to be open about results, you have to be clear about all the results, not just about any of them. I want to challenge the Prime Minister on some specific questions. For example: The prime minister is right that Ullevål Hospital thinks they should take back laundry services because they can make some money on it, despite the fact that the only reason they earn money is that when they buy from private people, the service is subject to VAT? Or will the Prime Minister now reconsider his view that we need to have a neutral VAT system in the state that makes the use of the money as sensible as possible? The second point is whether the Prime Minister sees that the objectives of the interaction reform are to be achieved, it is building up, not least in the municipal health service, which is important. If you want an interaction solution, you have to do something about the municipal structure. So the question is, is it that the Prime Minister thinks it's okay that this government has put a lid on, taken away all the carrots for voluntary community associations in this country, or does the Government – and wants the Prime Minister – want a renewed debate on how we can achieve a better and better functioning municipal structure in the future? The last question: Will the Government take the initiative in providing transparency on the quality of health care that allows all to compare results?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e226	First of all, I would like to stress that the representatives of Solberg are very important questions. Especially for all of us who are concerned with a large and strong public sector, it is to renew that key. I think that's what Solberg and I agree on. So the question is, what are the important renewal measures? Fortunately, there is agreement on some important things. It's e.g. consensus on the major reforms, such as the Nav reform and the pension reform. These are the biggest and most effective innovation reforms we have had in very many years. Then, too, renewal work is about the sum of very many other small decisions, which together are crucial for whether we have a good and well-functioning public sector. That's where I think there's a consensus about parts of things, and then there's a disagreement, because we have different assessments of other things. I'm going to comment on some of the individual questions, but I just want to say that I think if you're going to look for someone -- what should I say -- more basic dividing lines, I think it's related to two things. One is that although we agree on many themes, I think that this government emphasises the importance of dialogue with the employees as crucial in the renewal work. Renewal is easier and more important in dialogue with employees than in confrontation with employees. The second is that I think it is easier to get renewed in a sector that is well-funded than in a sector that is underfunded. It is simply easier to convert if you are also willing to finance the sectors. A sector that sees that there is little money will easily get stiff, and people will defend everything they have, and be little willing to go into change. But then to the concrete things. When it comes to transparency about healthcare, I don't know exactly what Solberg's representative is aiming for. But what I know is that we have now promoted to the Stortinget a proposal that will make it easier to compile statistics and measure results, it's about personality-identifiable patient registers. The whole purpose of achieving better quality objectives is to measure the quality of healthcare. It's too bad today and it can get better. At least we agree on the intention and direction of it, and there are certainly many simple techniques that can be discussed. The second was Ullevål Hospital. We have a VAT compensation scheme. It is the health companies themselves who decide, and I believe that we have a compensation scheme that helps us to choose one or the other – whether they want to clean ourselves or others, they decide for themselves. In terms of school outcomes, it's one of the same thing as health outcomes. The national samples have come to stay. We have strengthened the use of screening samples, we have national samples. We have done so in better dialogue with teachers' and students' organisations. Therefore, the samples now work better than during the previous government, as there was great confrontation, boycott and the samples did not work. They're not kept secret, but we've chosen a public release at municipal level, and then those who want it get access to school numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e243	The Labour Party is very concerned with the quality and renewal of the public sector for our benefit – in the municipalities, in the county municipalities and in the state, in the city and in the countryside. The batches on the right try to leave an impression that the batches on the left are not occupied with renewal. That's all but right. The Prime Minister, through his intervention, has again described how the Government is acting offensively in this way. But the parties on the left are more than the parties on the right are engaged in good dialogue with the employees and their organisations when we are going to renew the public sector, just as the Prime Minister said. An important difference between our renewal and the renewal of the right is that we want to build strong Community solutions, while the focus of the right is often competition and privatisation, if that means more bureaucracy and increased costs. A good example of renewal in the municipal sector is the so-called quality municipality programme. The programme is a tripartite cooperation between the State, KS and the employee organisations. The aim of cooperation is to increase the quality and efficiency of municipal services. The population shall note improvements and a specific objective is to reduce sick leave in the municipal sector. The aim is to involve about half of the country's municipalities in this programme. A good example from the programme is the municipality of Bodø, which in two years has reduced sick leave in the municipality by 30 pst. One reason is that the municipality focuses a lot on promoting a good working environment. Work on the renewal of the public sector is ongoing. In order to really achieve good and smart solutions, we depend on having a law that creates a safe working environment, and on dialogue and cooperation with employees in the state and in the municipal sector. The role of the big business is, among other things, to ensure that the law promotes an inclusive working life, rather than a work environment law that challenges people and that does, for example: employment more insecure for the individual employee. Here there is a difference between the policy of the current government and that of the previous government. The municipality is the main provider of welfare to the population, whether it is about kindergartens, care, school etc. Our government plays with the municipalities because the inhabitants of all municipalities deserve it. When the Right ruled the Ministry of Local Affairs in the previous period, the sector was more affected by despair than by renewal. It would have been worse if the previous government had not had to conclude budgetary agreements with parties that wanted more. There are still challenges, but no one can claim anything but that the local economy is significantly strengthened under the red-green government. At the same time, we have given many municipalities new opportunities to improve and renew service provision through increased tax equalisation and various grant schemes, which meet different challenges faced by municipalities in the country. New and better distribution of the country’s municipalities in terms of the prerequisites for providing their citizens with a good service offer is also, to a large extent, a renewal – but a renewal that Erna Solberg’s Right is opposed, often strongly opposed. Interpellant claims that the sitting government has stopped a number of modernisation projects, for example around municipal structures. The Labour Party is in favour of municipalities joining forces, but I thought we agreed with the Right that the merger of municipalities should take place through voluntary action. Now I register that the Right Vice President, Erling Lae, is in charge of the great use of coercion. It may be an approach to the local democracy hosting Party of Advancement. In general, I believe more to stimulate than to force for good results in all forms of renewal work. It is good that the Right also has a focus on improvements and renewal. But what's modern to the Right isn't necessarily very modern in our and in the eyes of others, and doesn't have to represent innovation at all. Rather, right-wing solutions can sometimes remind us of old-fashioned ideas that we in no way see the need to reuse. As before, well-functioning Community solutions are the best guarantee that everyone is given his or her share of well-being and improvements, his or her part of the possibilities. If we're going to do it, we have to be critical all the time and make things smarter and better, just as the Prime Minister said, and above all, as the Prime Minister is doing to make sure that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e262	There is little doubt that the public sector has an inherent power to grow on its own. It is therefore essential that we politicians also use budgetary policy actively to limit the growth of public bureaucracy and administration. Unfortunately, we feel that the opposite is the case. The government budgets that this government has promoted for the Storting increase the costs of administration in the public sector without exception. It's a cost growth that goes far beyond wage and price growth. Expenditure growth in the public sector is staggering. Only this year will the country increase the number of employees by 4,700 people. And just as a curiosity: to operate the government apparatus, it's set for next year at NOK 6.4 billion, an increase of SEK 1.1 billion from this year. Government budgets generally justify expenditure growth with costs related to efficiency measures in agencies, supervisory bodies and directorates. Such measures are certainly needed, but despite all the good intentions, there is no reduction in the number of employees. New data solutions are being introduced and more and more work is being transferred to each individual citizen using e-mail, the Internet or quiet acceptance. Despite this, the number of employees in the public administration is increasing. This is not a sensible use of society's resources, but a trend all the parties – including the Progress Party – have a responsibility to turn around. In private enterprises, there is a constant focus on keeping fixed costs at a minimum, which makes the company more efficient and rational, the company makes more money and the salary of each individual becomes higher. Such incentives are lacking in the public sector. While private sector employees have as their starting point money to strengthen the company's bottom line, public agencies have the opposite starting point. Public agencies shall use up their annual appropriations and are often rewarded with even higher appropriations if this objective is achieved. In public administration, employees receive approximately equal wage increases based on the government wage regulation. This means that acute competence is rarely rewarded, creativity and self-initiation are given poor soil, external contact networks are not valued, while individuals do not have any financial incentives to propose concrete savings in the body. In such a system, it is we politicians who must be the janitors and constantly focus on cost-efficiency and constantly remind each other that it is the income of our voters that we have over the state budget. The objective of any conversion and reform process must be to reduce the need for public transfers. If that target is not met, the process has not been successful. Furthermore, we must constantly ask ourselves whether the tasks carried out are a task that the public should be doing or whether the tasks need to be done at all. In my time as a bureaucrat, I never stopped wondering how much time we all spent informing each other. Not least, there were many who had a special fondness for so-called management tools, business planning, activity calendars and not least for writing internal notes. We informed each other over half a week. A key element in achieving savings in the public sector must be to allow for greater flexibility in wage setting. It's strange that it's only when you get up at the top management level that performance pay is introduced, and then through personal pay agreements. If the first consultant or consultant had also found that there was a clear link between pay and performance, the effectiveness, results and willingness to stand on this would have been reflected and the need for the number of employees reduced. But in today's system there are unfortunately no such incentives. Even in cases where employees actually become redundant, the labour force is released. In such cases, the State waiting pay scheme occurs. We have to get away from the myth that employment in the public sector is going to last out. In fact, it's not heartbroken if employees in the public administration too become superfluous. There is just such flexibility with the labour force the entire economy depends on. When a private enterprise chooses to cut down, it does not mean that those who have to leave the enterprise are indestructible. No, they're not invincible, they're superfluous. The company manages with fewer employees to produce the units the customers want and at the price they are willing to pay. It should be possible to think in the same way in public administration and without the State making redundant and providing them with a waiting wage – which indirectly tells these workers that they are unable to care for their own interests. In conclusion: Minister of Culture Trond Giske stated in the Evening Post on 15 October that the Government «should liquidate or merge some State aid schemes». He goes on to say that the problem is that ‘we are creating new arrangements that require bureaucracy and administration’. These are unusually wise words from a social democrat. The problem, however, is that neither the Geiske nor the Government have power or want to do anything about the problem. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he agrees with his Minister of Culture, Giske, in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e285	Those who have a long memory will remember back to the first time Jens Stoltenberg presented himself to the Stortinget with a government statement. That government statement had one single theme from beginning to end, and it was hot: change to renew. There was no unconditional success. The government's life span was short, and the Workers' Party did not make any great success of the election, as we know. In order to remedy that situation, a long-term agreement was concluded with LO, which took over the long election campaign. The top point of the sponsoring agreement between the Workers' Party and the LO was obviously not a change in the public sector — it is an understatement. Therefore, it is no coincidence that what has shaped this government’s work in the public sector is the status quo – minimum change and maximum increase in volume. Therefore, this government has become even more used than previous governments to respond to all criticisms and all indications of shortcomings by saying: No previous government has spent so much money – it is at school, it is at the health center, it is on the road. That's right, of course, just like it's been right when all the previous governments have said the same thing. The problem is that politics is not a competition for who can spend the most money. If politics is to have any meaning, it has to be using money better than before. In that area, this government has very little to point to. The Prime Minister spent quite a lot of his time talking about the interaction reform, as he said this government has started. Yes, so far there's nothing but the word that's started, and no one has seen the spin of the content. Of course, the words "cooperation" can all be used with enthusiasm, just as you can lift pennies in the flag bar, but there won't be much change in it. This government has spent three of its four years doing absolutely nothing with regard to the hospital services in this country, despite the fact that the interaction investigation was in place. Even the final consultation process was in place on the day of this government’s accession. Three years you haven't put a finger in it! Then you notice that the election is approaching, and then you assign Bjarne Håkon Hanssen a year vicariate in the department. He says he's going to spend three-quarters of that year consulting experts on what was already done. The truth is that if anything comes out of that work, it will be possible to present the Biggest in the form of a reform proposal in the middle of the next biggest period. It would be entirely unthinkable for this government to be able to present within two months a reform case to be dealt with by the Storting during the current majority period. What has happened in the health service during this government is that during the last six years — two years of the previous government period — the expenditure of the Norwegian hospital has been doubled. It's pretty strong in six years! At the same time, the most recent European comparisons show that Norway is in 16th and 18th places, respectively, in terms of its ability to obtain results from resource use in the health sector. Under this government, patient queues have increased by 45,000 over the three years that have passed, i.e. an average of 15 000 per year. years. At the same time, the proportion of private health insurance has gone right to weather at a galloping rate, i.e.: We're on our way into a class division of health, where those who have good employers or a bold wallet are able to buy themselves out of line, while everyone else has to stay there. The truth is that this government has put aside all ambitions to change the public sector. And if the interaction reform is ever to have the prospect of going somewhere, at least take the consequences and raise the level of ambition when it comes to getting a municipal structure that will be sustainable enough to take over the tasks that will then have to be taken over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e306	I think it's a very important debate the representative Erna Solberg is going up for two reasons. First of all, we're going to have some ideologies discussed in the main hall, because there's no doubt that we're now going to see the difference between the right-hand side, which wants to build up the public sector and privatize the Norwegian community, and us, on the other hand, who want a strong public sector. We believe that a strong public sector is one of the great qualities of Norwegian society, which means that we are constantly being drawn to if not the best of the world so at least the world's second best country to live in on the different measurements being made. It is precisely because a strong public sector is about stability, which the Prime Minister was talking about. At these very times, we are supported by unexpected teams by the fact that even countries that have not been so concerned about this in the past now want a stronger public sector. Secondly, it is about the community that everyone can take advantage of. So, there's an area where there's room for everyone. The fact that we have a strong public sector that embraces the entire Norwegian population is probably the highest quality we have in Norwegian society. That is why the ideological debate about whether we want a strong public sector, or whether we want to build it down and privatize is a very important debate. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister was so clear that he and the Government want to further develop the public sector and not build it down. The right-hand side means – Viktor Norman was the exponent for it – that the market was to be integrated and organized into the public sector. The market may be good for its use, but it is not the same to sell sausages that it is to provide child protection services. The market is not necessarily suitable for the protection of children. The market is suitable when 7-Eleven and Narvesen are selling sausages, but not in those areas that are important in the Norwegian community and that relate to services we provide in the public sector. I have been rapporteur in a small municipality, Namskogan. There was no market in view of different offers. There were people totally dependent on a solid municipality that offered services. The market was no theme there. This is the case in many parts of Norway. It is possible that there may be a market in Oslo that can operate in any of those areas. But in large parts of the country there is no market. So you have to kind of relate to being a nation, not talking about the city where the National Assembly happens to be. Then I'll talk about the profitability concept. What's profitable? I think we have a far too narrow approach to the profitability concept. If we go into a normal Norwegian municipality, we can define the school as unprofitable, the post as unprofitable, the nursing home as unprofitable. Most of it in a municipality is unprofitable. But it is clear that the municipality as a whole is profitable. Such bit-by-bit thinking, as politicians, we have to take a settlement with us, because then large parts of Norway eventually become unprofitable. That we have a public sector is not at all unprofitable. It is a very profitable business that helps to keep the Norwegian welfare community together in a good way. I mean it's organized very well today. This does not mean that there is no need for modernisation. But modernisation is not about demolition. I believe that the right-hand side of Norway is too busy tearing, not modernizing. If I'm going to modernise my house or my cabin, ripping is not the first thing I think about. Then you take the pieces of the house that are not good, and then you replace them. That's my way of modernizing. That's exactly what this government is doing. You go into areas that don't work, like hospitals, that the prime minister was involved in, and the Nav reform. I have been working in a work office for some years. One of the problems we saw there was just that the social office worked well, the social security office worked well, the work office worked well, but there was no interaction, and users often fell between two chairs. This is why a reform needs to be introduced to ensure that this merges, so that the population meets one door and receives both faster and better treatment when they have challenges that these agencies can solve. We're doing that, but it's very demanding. Getting three such businesses to merge into one is demanding. It's working very hard, and I think that's one of the things we're going to succeed in. Fortunately, in this area, it seems that there is also a clear majority in the Storting to achieve it. That's good! As I said, finally, this government is constantly modernising the public sector, but we are not engaged in demolition. And that's the difference on the right-hand side and these three games.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e321	In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned with good Community solutions – effective and modern – but it is important to remember that not everything that counts can be counted. The quality of services and the level of care are examples of this. The Christian People's Party wants a society where competition and economy are instruments, not the goal. The representative of Erna Solberg mentioned in his interview that the Government ‘is engaged in combating the private sector’. When we talk about the private, we have to be aware that there is a distinction between the private, commercial actors and the voluntary and non-profit actors. In this brief article, I just want to raise the situation to the ideal actors who provide health and care services. These offers are important supplements and corrective to public health and social services. The interpellant is concerned with efficient resource use and modernisation. After more than three years with the red-green in government, it has become clear to the Christian People's Party that the government's view of this voluntary part of the private sector is one of the areas of the public sector that are mature for modernisation. In fact, the supply of thousands of drug users, child-restraint children and the elderly is at risk because of government tendering policy. At the same time, more and more drug-care, child-resistance and rehabilitation sites are being offered. It is somewhat incomprehensible that this particular government chooses to drive so hard on the competitive market. The government goes beyond what it needs to do to satisfy the EU and market forces. In fact, the EEA Agreement opens up the possibility that non-profit institutions operating health and care services for no commercial purposes may be exempted from tenders. In this sector, there are many ideal service providers who do not make money but serve others. Voluntary organisations are bearers of important competences built over a long period of time. Historically, many of these organisations started with various assistance services long before public responsibility was assumed. Organisations have difficulties in competing with large state commercial operators. Many non-profit institutions also experience bidding between them, even if EEA legislation does not require such a practice. This creates unnecessary competitive relationships between actors who, in many cases, rather want to complement each other and share good experience. The results may require non-profit organisations to close their offerings. Several drug institutions, run by non-governmental organisations in Health South-East, have lost their business contracts after bidding rounds. The reality of the care system thus becomes long queues for government offers, while there is free capacity in non-profit institutions. It almost seems as if the government thinks it is better for people to stand in a state queue than to get offers from a nonprofit institution. The Christian People's Party has made proposals in the United Kingdom to exempt non-governmental organisations providing health and social services from the tendering requirement. I hope that the Prime Minister after this debate will be inspired to modernise his own government's view of the importance of voluntary and non-profit actors in society, and that he will ensure that the system we have gives the opportunity to be an important complement to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e336	A society must constantly renew itself. We have to see if we can solve the challenges better today than what we did yesterday. I guess there's no political disagreement about that. But today's debate shows that there are quite clear political lines of how we're going to deal with the challenges better tomorrow than what we're doing today. The issues raised in the Erna Solberg Interpellation are essentially transparency and municipal structure. The challenge is to reduce money use – unfortunately almost just money use. But what surprises me a little bit about transparency is that there's only one difference between looking at today's government and the previous one, and that's openness considering how we're going to publish national tests. There are no other major differences in transparency in the public sector, so I think it's a strange issue to raise. In terms of municipal structure, what is said by both Wage and Interpellant is recognizable, namely the belief that there are large units that are effective and that there are small municipalities that are expensive and that are the major challenge for Norwegian public opinion. I don't understand what's so modern about centralizing, and I don't understand what's so modern about reducing the number of voters. Today's situation merges into a series of issues. Erling Lae said last week that coercion must be done. He wanted a new central committee to draw a new map. People in this central committee were to lay the groundwork for the use of coercion, and even if the majority of the people disagreed with coercion, forced use was the message. The use of force to override local democracy was raised in a deliberate play by the Vice-Chairman of the Right. Is the new modernisation medicine of the Court that, if people do not agree locally, the official state should enter and use coercion? Is it modern that the old official party on the right again launches the idea of more central control? The opinion of the centre party is that coercion is negative in all contexts, and that the blind belief that the local government should become so much better and more effective in large units is based on an illusion. In a living government, you have to trust people locally and just let the people rule. There is more than enough central and remote control in this country. In the previous period, the merger of municipalities was lifted as an important matter. Erna Solberg and her state secretary, Meyer, traveled around with noise and bram and said that so much was going to happen. They let it shine through that they thought people locally did not understand their own best if they did not as much on the matter as the Council of State and her office. The result of the modernisation campaign to Solberg must have been discouraging. Five mergers were carried out — and at what price? Only the state spent 132 million. NOK, KS spent over 8 million. On the project, municipalities throughout the country hired consultants, and advisers and rapporteurs went to a seminar. Millions rolled, and the results were missing. The goal of Solberg is less use of money. My claim is that her previous project led to more use of money. Now is the new mantra in the municipal structure debate: look to Denmark, it must be a model. So let's see maps to Denmark. In 2006, Denmark introduced a structural change in which 275 municipalities became 98 municipalities. Has this led to more or less administration? A report has come, an evaluation, from the consulting company Deloitte, which shows that it is the opposite of less bureaucracy that has happened. There have been several employees of municipal bureaucrats. There are 1,650 more employees in the Danish municipal administration in 2008 than in 2006. There is no savings potential in the reform implemented by Denmark. Previous studies have also shown that there is little saving in the administration of municipal mergers. Followers of community mergers and coercion can no longer support the argument that reduced administration is the result of aggregation. That's not where you save money. Where you can save money with pooling, you may be by centralizing services, having services further away from people. Modernisation is not centralisation and less political governance. For the Central Party, modernising is to strengthen the rule of the people, reduce the power of bureaucracy and improve the provision of services to people. It is more effective to make good decisions locally – in Engerdal, in Oslo, in Stange, anywhere in Norway – than to sit in Oslo or elsewhere and draw maps and design local solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e356	I want to start by thanking the interpellant. We usually do that, but no one has done that today. I want to do that, because I think this is an important debate. I also think that Inge Wohnen's historical features were very correct and important to get pulled here. I have to say, as left-wing politicians, we were much more comfortable with the Workers' Party, which was going to renew the public sector, without SV, than the Workers' Party, which is going to blow up the public sector, with SV. The Labour Party and the Left have actually had similar traditions in terms of what the public sector should be, how to renew it, and how to enjoy having a good public sector. It is those who are happy in the public sector, who are the best ones to renew it too. But we have to say that we see a pretty big change from Stoltenberg I to Stoltenberg II regarding how to renew. The local government sector today has no desperate need for any of the things that the central party representative here spoke about. What is really the challenge in our municipalities today, especially the small ones, is the struggle for the competent labour force, the struggle to get the good people to do these jobs. It's hard to get the brilliant librarian to come and create a good library in every position. It is difficult to get a growing cultural sector, with a cultural secretary in one quarter. That's what's the challenge for our municipal structure today. What is the challenge in public today is to have well-qualified people who find good solutions, good community solutions. That is why the fight for skilled labour is an important part of the fight for the public sector. That's why it's not necessarily the number that's collected, that's important, but the competence of those that's there. You can wonder how Norway at all manages to compete in a world with as high wages as we have, with the level of well-being we have, and with the level of taxation we have, but we can do it. There are two factors that enable us to compete on a world scale. It's that we have a competent workforce, and Norwegian companies have been the fastest to put new technology into practice. We have been in the forefront of using new technology. We have been at the forefront of having a broad competence among the Norwegian population. This has meant that we have a competitive advantage. Our problem is that we have a public sector that is organised so that the competent workforce does not get there, and problem number two is that the public has not been good enough to use new technology. We've been slowing down on the two important components that help make Norway a good society. That is the challenge for the public sector today. One can make as many tables as one just wants about how the development is in the number of employees and all that, but one actually doesn't get good solutions if one doesn't get very good nurses to be heads of departments, if one doesn't get the best people to also take jobs in public. I become very centralist when the Progress Party talks about the solution being performance pay, and also when the Prime Minister says that no one is going to change if they don't feel that they have a good armshake. Both of these things are wrong. It's actually like you have to feel that someone's pushing you to get results, if you're going to be good, and it's also like you have to feel safe for the frames around it, in order for you to be good. It is precisely the balance that creates a good public sector. Competence is the challenge to change. Making the most competent peoples also contribute to the development of the public sector is the challenge. That is why the Left has raised the debate on municipal structure. It's not because we think small units are necessarily inefficient. The problem is that the small units don't get the competent people to make good solutions for the people there. The left's answer, as many others do, is that using new technology, getting the good, competent people to want to join in, will help the public sector improve. We had wanted a government that had it on the agenda again, and I hope we might get it soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e369	A broad discussion on the modernisation and better use of public resources is positive. Even I am a strong supporter of the fact that only the cat catches mice, it should be released to – whether it is blue, red, black, grey or green, or it comes from east or west. A cat in which the Right has great faith is consistent implementation of the principle of separating the order/executor, as we see it implemented in our Right-Leaded Capital. For example: the fifteen districts formerly responsible for the nursing homes and for assessing the sick home capacity in relation to the need and the other elderly care. Then the Right-leaded City Council transferred the responsibility for the nursing homes to a central hospital seat, so that the districts would order places. This has led to a large increase in average costs per year. place, which the district has to pay. This has led to a large deficit in this nursing home, this year it is estimated that approx. Eighty million. kr, but above all, this has led to the fact that despairing elderly people have problems getting into hospital because it is not even a waiting list system, and because those responsible for organising it are not close enough to the users. So it's not all the modernisations of this kind that lead to improvements neither in resource use nor in services. But in order for this not only to be a predictable rhetoric in which we use examples that we think are suitable to show a one-sided pattern, I'm also going to draw out another current cat, namely the model separating the NSB/Railway Works, which also doesn't exactly catch mice a day. There are tens of thousands of irritated train passengers in the eastern part of the country almost daily. I have to say that if the NSB and the Railway Agency are not able to get together and stop showing lack of funding for many, many years, you cannot avoid that there will also be other cats on the table, for example. the possibility of organising a joint collective society in the eastern region, where local trains, T-Bahn, bus, boat, etc. be coordinated in a common, coordinated system of better resource use, where it can be better addressed, or for example. that the model of the Gjøvik track, where the operation was put at a competitive disadvantage, must actually be learned, and that is, in some cases, more regularity. As I said, we have to look for cats that catch mice in the east and west. As far as health services are concerned, there is an interesting cat in California and a few more states called Kaiser Permanente. It's a health company that has eight million customers, and that organizes all health services, from hospitals to local services. Here all doctors and all other employees work within one system. The point is that you try to cancel all of the attempts at playing the different terms, for example: that a general practitioner is not at local level able to refer and charge expenditure to all other parts of the healthcare system, whether it is an x-ray institution or simply by referring to hospitals, and for example. that the play between hospital and hospital is not possible because one is in the same system, has joint management and is paid the same place. So here a private-capitalist health company has introduced more complete governance than what we now have here. Many in the Right and others might have reacted if we had discussed doing as Kaiser Permanente, namely changing the status of the decision-makers from being self-employed to becoming employees under the hospitals in a common chain. I don't think we're there now or get there with the first, but my point is that we should look for cats that catch mice anyway, and without just looking at it with old ideological barriers. I believe that we should all be less conservative and better off releasing new cats, and not just seeing it so that it is the old market mechanisms or the old view that everything should be public, which should be the guide for the choice of solutions. I think we have to be able, when we see that things don't work – whether it's Right Hospital in Oslo, the NSB/Railway Agency or the organisation of the health care system – to let go of new cats that catch mice and that we can find on many teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e384	The need for modernisation in the public sector is high. Unfortunately, the sitting government does not seem to take this over. We have major challenges in both school and health. We have an over-administrated public sector and an over-bureaucratic society. None of these challenges seem to the government to care about. Norway is struggling with an animal school that does not deliver results that we can be happy with, and health cows are still increasing. There is a need for change in the public sector. A key element in public sector renewal is more freedom of choice. Unfortunately, the sitting government seems to have some sort of allergy to anything that might be similar to private initiative elements. In Sweden and England, we see that the Workers' Party supports its sister party with a whole heart about the incubator. Fortunately, they can see the value of choice and competition. Norway is therefore, even on a social democratic scale, immature and lagging behind. The newly elected president of the United States had a change as a mantra for his election campaign. One of the things he wants to change is the U.S. school, which has the same problems as Norway. It's expensive, and it doesn't deliver results. His answer to that is more freshly. While the rest of the world seems to see that freedom of choice and freshmanness are good, ancient Norway hangs again in social-democratic solutions developed in the early post-war period. The Norwegian community has changed a lot since then, and these solutions have been out of date for the longest time. Now that has to change. Unfortunately, this does not apply only to school and education. We see that the same resistance to anything that can remind us of private entries and competition also has consequences in the health care system, where health cows have increased steadily under the sitting government. Increasing the proportion of input-driven funding has previously proved to be an effective measure to reduce health cows. The Progress Party enters its alternative state budget to increase the ISF share from 40 to 60 pst. This is a measure that is neither expensive nor requires major conversions, but which we know will contribute to a better and more effective healthcare system. It is very regrettable that the government party does not support us in this. Optionality must become the rule, not the exception, in public service production, not just from a purely utilitarian point of view, but because the freedom of choice and the individual's right to self and their own everyday life are actually an important value in itself. We need a funding system for Velferds-Noreg, where the money follows the user, and which gives far more freedom of choice to people who are not particularly well-loved, more freshly so that children from all families can choose a private option, and it must not be so that only those with the most dense wallet or the most generous employer can choose private alternatives in the healthcare system. One would therefore believe that social democrats support the whole heart about this idea. In several countries they do, but unfortunately not in Norway. When you hear representatives from the government parties talking, you can start wondering if they want to modernise the public sector as a whole. It seems to me that the sitting government is quite without vision, and has no other purpose than to be a brake block for the necessary change that so little began during the previous government. Such a reactionary policy is doomed to fail. Interpellant's interpellant text has a quote from Prime Minister Stoltenberg from 2000, where he points to the need for renewal in the public sector. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister has changed his mind since then. I would strongly urge the Prime Minister to bring up again the ideas and ideas that seemed to shape his previous government more than it is now, because the need for modernisation of the public sector has not become any less today than it was in the year 2000. After the change of government and the change of name of the Ministry of Modernization of the Ministry of Renewal, it may now seem that we have got a government department that has no other task than to administer the trial scheme with six hours of work. It is a department that has much more important tasks to tackle. Now things go in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e403	If we stand firm on old solutions, we fail the public sector," said Stoltenberg. I agree with the heart, and it is a great responsibility on governments in this regard. He said that modernisation of the public sector is the main task of the Government. Then I ask the question: why do we then observe that the Government’s Minister of Renewal is almost unemployed? I would venture to make a small claim: I think the interests of trade unionists in most contexts are put ahead of the interests of users. This is a shame. In transport, we have not seen any modernisation measures at all, i.e. no structural changes and improvements over the next four years. This is very sad, because modernization processes such as Stoltenberg I had a positive attitude to, and which Bondevik II led to full realization, have proved almost without exception to be successes. Let me mention some examples, first in railway operations. The reforms started by separating the operating company NSB from the Railway Agency, then setting up CargoNet to distinguish freight transport from passenger transport. Here, natural development processes have stopped completely. Liberalised CargoNet for freight has experienced success due to business structure and competition. As far as passenger transport is concerned, we were only able to compete on one route, the Gjøvik track, in the previous government, but it has been a huge success. Yes, the NSB management itself says that the small competition they got from winning the offer on the Gjøvik track has actually stimulated the entire organisation, and they want to compete for more sections. Why? The answer is that competition and business spirit within the organisation itself are stimulating, thus serving not only the organisation itself but also the most important users, to which an offer is to be made. The road sector is another example. Bondevik II distinguished the production activities of Vegvesen from its own company, Mesta AS – a free, commercial operator in a competitive market. It was probably a success. Yes, Navarsete stated at a 2006 LO State Conference that the competitive outsourcing resulted in an annual profit of 580 million. kr. In addition, the regionalisation of the State Road Administration, carried out by Bondevik II, which provided a saving of 400 million. SEK – in other words, NOK 1 billion more for road construction per person. years. The last example I want to draw up is Public Private Cooperation, OPS. For the time being, we have three success projects, with all the agencies gradually seeing that getting rid of private builders has contributed to great societal gains, primarily through faster implementation of the projects – yes, up to twice as fast. Then you can only wonder what this means by social gains for businesses, users and the general population. Unfortunately, the only thing this government has done in the transport sector was to withdraw from the Bondevik II Government's proposal to further modernise the Railway Agency by putting its operations into competition and maintenance activities. In retrospect, most people will agree that the failure of the railway system and the lack of systematic work have become visible to everyone. In the case of OPS, which unfortunately is too much characterised by privatisation for this government, they launched their own mantra, project financing. This was to be the great red-green sequel to OPS. But nothing has happened here either. In the 2006 Yellow Book, the Government itself writes that this is not going to happen. Governments around the world are thinking about modernising and renewing the public sector. The transport sector is one of the sectors that often deliver win-win results and stimulate, i.e. they are beneficial to both the State, the actors themselves and – perhaps most importantly – to users. Then it is sad to see how our government is characterized by internal disagreement that leads to total paralysis in terms of the renewal of the transport sector. It was liberating to hear the contributions of the Workers' Party. It may well be the best confirmation of internal frustration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e420	Yesterday it became known that Norway tops the list of gender equality. The next countries on the list were other Nordic countries. This is reflected in the range of rankings in which the Nordic countries are doing very well, not least in relation to the provision of good welfare to the population, such as school, health and economic security in the event of loss of income, to mention something. But there are also rankings of productivity, adaptability and innovation that we do well. All the Nordic countries, for example, are beating. Average growth rates of EU countries. In the World Economic Forum's report on the world's most competitive economies, all Nordic countries are on top 10. In other words, all the Nordic countries are good countries to live in and at the top of the world. One of the reasons it is a well-functioning public sector. Compared to the rest of the world, it's like this. But that doesn't mean that everything is very well, and that there's no need to do things differently, and then justified by three important factors. Since the public sector is so large and so important in all people's lives in Norway, it must function well when we all end up in different situations of life and need help, service or guidance from Nav, the tax haven or the municipality in which we live. In addition, the public sector should be operated as efficiently as possible in order to ensure the best possible service to all. There are scarce resources, and then they have to be used effectively. A third factor is that a large part of the workforce has its job in the public sector. They are entitled to an equally meaningful, good and predictable working environment as those working in the private sector. Is the opposite the case, yes, productivity goes down, and we who sit here have to be responsible. Therefore, these kinds of big debates are important, although I disagree with the opening of the debate, namely a statement by the representative Solberg that this government's response to the challenges in the public sector is only more money, not change. The Prime Minister has given a good answer to this claim. I want to focus on the fact that we all have a responsibility to carry out the necessary conversions properly. Even reforms with unanimity and a broad majority behind them cause problems when they are to be implemented. The Nav reform was initiated by the previous government and followed up by this government. We all know that Nav is not working properly today, because reorganization has costs. It's easy to think, and say, people are going to change the way they work. We who sit here can adopt new structures, location, etc., but studies and evaluations show that migration is more difficult to achieve than what we want to believe. In many cases, there are no planned gains or savings. And then another time you get it. The interesting question we have to ask ourselves – whether we belong to the right- or the left-hand side – is why it's like this. In the A magazine last Friday, this was just a theme in a column written by organizational psychologist Knut Ivar Karevold: How can it be that someone succeeds in conversion, while others do not? A key factor is the involvement of the employees. In addition, ‘good justification for the change, clear visions of the future and time to implement the change measures are needed. Engagement must be created by involving people in elections that affect their working situation’. I think we should listen to that, especially those of us who have power and great influence to initiate conversion. Let me do an example. We spend the next most money in the world on health. Still, we don't have the world's second best health care system. One of the problems in the Norwegian hospital sector today is that many decisions are made at the top, and there is also a lot of responsibility. At the bottom of the system, out in the hospital wards, they have too little responsibility for the economy and resource use. They experience to a variable extent that they, for example: must take financial responsibility. The consequence is that all the necessary financial measures will be stepped down on the heads of the staff of the hospitals departments around the country. It is not certain that the money will be saved in the right place with such a solution, and those who can do small but important grips are not responsible, and then they do not take responsibility. The patients are the ones who are left with the problem in the end. They get a worse offer than they would otherwise have, and we politicians naturally get the responsibility for it. This is also the case if the tax rate is not working well enough, or if Nav has problems. I directly disagree with the previous speaker who claimed that there is a contradiction between the user and the employees' interests in this way. I believe that both users and those working in the public sector have a strong common interest in providing good services. But we politicians must accept that the process of conversion leads to a loss of productivity towards change. I am convinced that this loss will be less if the employees are strongly involved in the conversion processes. In this way, the right-hand side has a way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e444	Every day, 365 days a year, it will be working on modernisation and conversion in Kommune-Noreg. After 13 years as a local authority – now as a spokesperson – I know that our job is to give our citizens the best possible offer. The development of broadband where the market fails, applications processed via the network, smart and effective inter-communal solutions such as: before child protection – this is the everyday life. There is a somewhat special sense of reality and strange practice when the representative Solberg from Right now gives the impression that efficiency and modernisation have stopped with this government. It's a continuous work that local populace duties to focus on every single day. If the interpellant has its reality picture from the dark blue Bergen, where the process time for construction matters is several months, unlike smaller municipalities that may have during a third of the time – we could for example. read in Bergen's Official Journal a little bit back that Bergen lost 6 million. kr annually – or whether it is the economy of the care sector in the same city, which is produced as if it is out of control, I will not speculate in. I can only say that for the Center Party this does not seem to be particularly effective and modern. I'm having trouble understanding the logic of the Right, as seen by the similarity sign between big units and modern and efficient. The center party is not a leper to neither private solutions nor reasonable structural changes, as some people like to make it. However, it is important that the drug does not become the target, as its right prescription appears to be. It is modern, and it is the right of the future to provide equivalent welfare services even in areas where the inhabitants are not seen as profitable investment objects. It is quite right, as the interpellant points out, that it has never been allowed more money for well-being than under this government. We have also received more well-being. It's probably also possible to get even more knowledge and well-being for this money. It's not modern that the nursing home care needs to fill out four pages of questions in order to drip an eye to people, as introduced by the IPLOS under the previous government. I talk to teachers every day who have a great desire to be teachers. It's not very modern and effective, nor is it knowledge-promoting to use the teaching time to fill out the reporting form, documentation to be equipped to meet the right-hand side of their right-hand society. Where Right's medicine is private solutions, large units, supply and bureaucracy, the Center Party's medicine is much more targeted and modern: trust in local people, trust in councillors, trust in adding, to use resources on good services rather than reports, control form and supply bureaucracy. It is much more modern that even those who live in such a way that they are not profitable investment objects, also have good welfare facilities where they live. If this is immoderate, then I actually thought that the Right should be so honest to say it, and not wrap the embassy into fine words.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e470	It has been an interesting and partly revealing debate on the part of the various political parties. I thought the top was reached when Parliamentary leader Inge Ryan made contributions. He thought it was an interesting ideological debate, and after that he delivered five minutes of unconcreted claims, prejudiced attitudes and stamping of other parties – not a single thought of how it was actually going to be modernised in Norway. I don't think the speakers of the Central Party have done much better. I can draw attention to the fact that the procedure in Bergen has fallen in the last few weeks. It's unfortunately because there's less activity in this country, and it's an economic challenge. I want to go back to what was the main question: how can we get more out of the heads we use? My basic idea – and I think it's a responsibility for all politicians – is that when we take people's private well-being through the state treasury, we commit ourselves to using each crown in a sensible way. We've taken money from lonely carers and people with bad advice because we say we can manage them better. Then we have a duty to prove that we manage them better when we do it. Therefore, it is important to have the best possible quality at the lowest possible price. That is why I fully agree that we should bet on the employees. This is one of the reasons why we are committed to continuing training in the care sector, for example, because we believe it is a great potential for quality assurance by focusing on individuals working in the sector. That's why we're busy turning the pyramids where more decisions are made in the municipalities. The main challenges with the municipal structure today are that there will be less local democracy, not more local democracy, with the municipal structure we have today, because more decisions will be moved out of the municipalities. At the same time, if we are really going to get what Marianne Aasen said, we have to get down to the basic plane if we are to get to the conversion measures, and the decisions must also be there. This means that there is a need to provide frameworks around which decisions taken in a hospital sector, in a municipality, in child protection locally, are governed by the same considerations as those which are good for society as a whole. Saying that we want socio-economic profitability simply means that we don't want to make it pay to push the problems over to another level, but it's worth helping the patient or the user where it is. Today, our municipal structure provides a total framework, so that child protection is more centralised, and so that the hospital and interaction reforms are going to be worse. In fact, it's not to save money – it's to ensure that services get better, and that decisions get closer to people. When the Prime Minister asked what we really meant by the patient register, about public matters, I just want to say that the publication of quality data has stopped. It was a work that was going on. In this way, individual users can choose, take a patient choice, and choose between different hospitals based on quality data that are available if obtained. I think we will also see that it will gradually do something about the quality of services. I know I'm overtime. I'm sorry, but I just want to say that I think it's an interesting discussion we've had now. I think we should take it in several areas, because I think we're going to experience that we don't have the world's best country to live in if we don't exploit the potential we have, using resources more efficiently in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e485	First, I have to correct two very serious forgetfulness. One is to thank the interpellant for the interpellation. Of course, it's almost unforgivable not to do that. I've already said that I thought it was a good and important interpellation with the issues she raised, but now also the thanks for the good interpellation. The second is that I got hurt to mix management levels together. It is clear that the municipal VAT compensation scheme has little to do with state hospitals, so it is also corrected. I just want to remind you that the issue of introducing such a VAT compensation scheme for State hospitals was investigated and assessed by the Bondevik II government and that in the summer of 2005, it was not wanted to be introduced. So that's probably where we have the same approach. So a couple of other considerations. There have been some claims here that the public sector is escalating. I would say that one has to be a little more precise, because where we see the strongest growth in the public sector now, is in the care sector, and kindergartens. It's a wild growth. The fact that we have 10,000 more annual jobs in the care and care sector is something we boast of, which we are proud of, and I don't think we should use words like ese out. Kindergartens is another area. So to the government employees that a couple of the representatives have been concerned about. I've looked at that list. The biggest growth is in Defense. I thought we were too. There's a lot of growth in Nav. That's because we have a much bigger effort to get people to work now than before. We've had growth in the number of police employees, etc. It is also essentially a wild growth in areas that we give priority to. Research is another area where there is great growth in the number of government employees. The growth in the ministries is no higher now than under the previous government. So that's the question of private or public. I think you should interact, where there is room for the public sector, of course, and where there is room for private NPISHs. They make considerable efforts in large areas, but there is also room in some areas for private commercial ones. There has always been an interaction in the Norwegian welfare state between different providers. What's wrong is to make who's offering, an ideological project in itself, and thus to advocate privatisation for the sake of privatization. So you say this government hasn't done anything. Well, I don't think there's much more reform in the public sector than the pension reform. Half of public expenditure is transfers. Most of it is popular fear, and now we are bringing about a great renewal of what contributes to a more modern Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e500	That is when the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e514	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e523	This is a matter I am very happy to be able to present to Stortinget. This year's social security settlement was, thanks to the willingness of pensioners' organisations and disabled people's organisations to redeploy, a low wage settlement for those who are social security that we have not seen before. Thus, the willingness of organisations to redeploy, combined with the country’s willingness to increase the performance of young people and the promise to escalate the minimum performance of the population’s population to 2 G in 2010, made it possible to raise them with the lowest performances, which was very necessary and correct. This is a requirement that the pensioners’ organisations have promoted for many years, and that SV has agreed to. Overall, it is SEK 1.9 billion that is redistributed this year from what was overhanged from 2007. The minimum pensioners have been given a lifting of approx. NOK 16 000. The young unemployed got a lift of approx. 13 000 kroner, and now the minimum benefits for rehabilitation money, return money, time-limited unpaid pay and social benefits for single dependants and additional social benefits are raised to 1.97 G, that is to say 138 404 kroner, and that is a promise that the escalation to 2 G will take place in 2010. So the money is used for those with the minimum performances, and it's a distribution that SV and the government are very happy about. In the 2009 budget proposal currently under consideration, there is an increase to follow up these commitments made in the social security settlement this year, of DKK 2.1 billion for a further escalation of benefits, so that they reach the target of 2 G in 2010. It was very important, and it was right to put this in place. For people who for various reasons are not at work, benefits must ensure a decent standard of living. When we know that between 30 pst. and 40 pst. of those who need to supplement social assistance regularly are recipients of social security, it shows that it is important to raise them with the lowest benefits. Together with the increase in housing aid, which is also included in the 2009 budget, which will have an annual impact in volume terms of approx. One billion kroner, and that will give 50,000 more households the right to living quarters, this is a necessary and proper raise for some of them with the worst advice. It is an important part of the Government's commitment to poverty. However, I would like to stress in particular that I am particularly pleased that this increase also applies to the lone carers. This is true of some of the most disadvantaged families in Norway, and it is particularly important that, as the granting authority, we have an economy that enables these children to participate in everyday life, everyday life, school and leisure life in line with other children, so that they are not placed in a situation other than that of normal children for financial reasons and experience exclusion. We know that can set lasting tracks. So there's been a discussion about the supplementary social benefits. There is a discussion that probably leads back to when the benefit was introduced, and now the Progress Party is upset that people who are legally resident, residence permits – many are citizens – will receive a benefit when they get old and do not have the right to a minimum pension, because they have not lived here long enough. The alternative to this benefit is that municipalities are given full financial responsibility and have to provide social assistance every month, with a lot of proceedings and a lot of insecurity. That is why it has been very important for us, and it was for the previous government too, to make sure that the state took on this responsibility for people who had been allowed to live in Norway, and that that responsibility should not be shifted to the municipalities. We're going to follow that up now. There is no reasonable reason for this group to be placed in a situation different from that of other citizens of Norway in terms of minimum performance. They have the same needs as others, and it is as right now as before that the state bears the costs of the supplementary social benefits and ensures that it does not become a poverty trap for people over 67 years of age. It is not reasonable for society to require them to go out to gainful work in order to have something to live off. I would also like to stress that this supplementary benefit has given a living to many Nordics who have lived abroad for a long time and have not had the right to a minimum pension through residence. Among other things, I can mention the so-called Kola Northmen who lived in Russia for many years, and who came back and ended up with almost zero to live off. A lot of people have needed this performance. I am very pleased that this minimum performance is also now increasing, so that we can re-conquer some of the poverty traps that can make you have far too little advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e540	One could have been tempted in this case to say that the said was heard, because it will be much the same as we actually discussed during the social security settlement, and that was the subject of a wide debate then. I still choose to say a little about how the Progress Party thinks, and how we view this. Let me make it clear: the Progress Party is pleased that the minimum performance of health-related areas is now increasing. We're glad you're getting a better minimum rate of return. We're happy to get a better benefit for rehabilitation money, and we're happy to do something for young people. But what we are not happy about, and what is our big criticism, is that by increasing these benefits, we are taking away from pensioners by not implementing the guidelines adopted by the Stortinget in 2003, on how to make social security arrangements. The fact that these guidelines have not been followed, and that they have been disregarded, is that the Government also admits in the staging proposition that is being dealt with now. Let me quote from the proposition: ‘By the current guidelines, G should have been increased to NOK 70 934 from 1 May. The new base amount is estimated to result in savings in expenditure of 1,948 million. kr in relation to whether G had been regulated according to the guidelines.’;» This is therefore a clear confirmation that the guidelines have not been followed. This means that almost NOK 2 billion have been spent on Norwegian retirement pensioners with supplementary pensions, disability pensioners and survivors' pensioners, and strengthened lone minimum pensioners. $1,340 million. kr will be used to strengthen the social security scheme for lone minimum pensioners. – I expect the president to set the clock on, otherwise I will have a very long speaking time. I see that I haven't used anything yet, but I'm going to try not to hold on for more than 5 minutes anyway. – That is part of what was done in the social security scheme. And then you take 608 million. kr, which should also have gone to the pensioners, and is used to increase the minimum benefit. In other words, the government doesn't use one fresh crown to reinforce its minimum performance. They don't use one fresh penny to do anything for the lone minimum pensioners, but they send the entire bill to old-age pensioners with supplementary pensions, survivors' pensions and disability pensioners. It's actually the heart of the matter, and that's the reality. Therefore, the Progress Party does not participate in the majority vote. That is why the Progress Party is promoting its own proposal, which provides fresh resources in this matter. In fact, we want pensioners to have their rightful share under the guidelines, and that they should have provided fresh funds to strengthen their minimum performance. It calls the Progress Party a good welfare policy. It calls the Progress Party a fair welfare policy. It's something other than taking from someone and giving to others. I would like to say a few words about supplementary social benefits. The additional social benefits introduced in 2006 are, first of all, not a popular benefit. That's why I also react to taking money from social security, i.e. a popular benefit, to increase a benefit that is not a popular benefit. It's basically wrong, to my mind. I believe – without being a lawyer – that this is contrary to Section 14 of the Act on Supplementary Social Welfare. It says quite clearly that it is the state that is going to take the bill. The government has not taken the bill here. Here are the Norwegian pensioners who have taken the bill. I believe that this is wrong in relation to Section 14 of the Act on Supplementary Social Security. If we look at our neighboring country Denmark, there's not such an arrangement there. There's the cash assistance that secures this group. I think, in principle, that it should be as natural as the same system in Norway as before 2006, precisely because it is not a popular benefit, and because it is a common social benefit in this area. If you think you're coming to Norway when you're 67 and you have a spouse under 67, you're going to get 2.44 G. That's a total of 171,000 kroner, quickly calculated in my head. That means you have to work for 40 years with a salary of 320,000 kroner in order to get an approximation of your social security pension. I don't see the justice of it either. So my question to the Council of State is: How can we regulate this additional social benefit in the future when we move to modernized people's security? Here, this benefit has been tied up to the minimum retirement benefit. So we know that in the future, the minimum retirement benefit has to be adjusted in life. This means that the minimum pension in relation to today's dollar value will be lower for each year approaching 2050. It's a reality. Does this mean changing the supplementary benefit law every two years in order to maintain the same level as for the minimum pension, or does it mean setting the level of this benefit, which is not a social security benefit? If you choose to do it the latter way, the gap between supplementary benefit and pension will of course be increased for every year that goes, which I also think will be a very unfortunate and little logical development. That is why the Progress Party has chosen to promote the proposal we have in this vote. I am therefore addressing the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e567	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e570	The negotiated social security settlement was supported on the right when we dealt with it, and we are also in the setting today. That makes sense. There should be a link between what you do, at least when the distance between treatments is as short as it is in this case. It's not a big bomb that we're into this setting. When we do that, it's not least because we from the Right have a basic starting point in terms of the division of labour between government and big business. When the government negotiates a social security settlement and agrees with the parties about it, we have respect for it from the Right. It takes a lot of time for us to break up with what has been agreed in negotiations. It would interfere with the relationship between government and greatness. I just wanted to say it as a little bit of a rationale for where we are relative to this division of labour. That being said, there's one point that we've made as a matter of concern in the setting, and it's related to this with the minimum pension trap. In the setting, we refer to the answers we have received from the Council of State – the previous one, but it does not change much on the matter as to this question. There the government writes: ‘The Government’s proposal for a new basic amount from 1 May 2008 and the proposed special additional increases are estimated to provide 44,435 with additional minimum pensioners in 2008 and a further 7,620 in 2009 and 7,575 in 2010.’; It's worrying. We have just been through an interpellation debate here in the Chamber earlier today, where the Prime Minister, as part of his completed ten-minute speeches, presented as a showy point, as I understood, that the new pension reform meant removing the minimum pension trap. This is not entirely correct, because even if this is the current pension scheme, there will also be some who will experience that small supplementary pensions will be eaten up by the minimum pension for some years into the retirement life. We have been informed of this ourselves by the Council of State, which was also Bjarne Håkon Hanssen at the time, in response to direct questions when we dealt with the new pension scheme. I'm a little bit concerned that we're keeping a high level of precision. Perhaps the Prime Minister should have noticed that, because the problem of the minimum pension traps has not been solved. So finally, a few words about this with supplementary performance. It was the Bondevik II government that proposed and had this adopted in the previous growing-up period. I see it as a progress in the sense that I believe it would be both unworthy and inappropriate to force people who have permanent residence in Norway, who are allowed to live here, but who have not earned any rights at all, to go to the social office every fourteen days with lua in hand and beg for money. I understand the proposal of the Advance Party that they are not against getting money, but that they are very concerned about the account over which the payment is to be charged. I guess that's not the big question of principle. I think it's important to make sure you have a decent and decent system for this group as well. That's why we also support what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e590	We have two different issues for treatment today — the follow-up to the social security system with the raising of some minimum benefits and the benefit to persons with short residence in Norway. There are two separate issues, but in common with both of them, they deal with important aspects of our social security network. The pension benefits are the very foundation of popular security – a foundation for which there has been a broad political consensus since Social Minister Egil Aarvik of the Christian People's Party presented the Borten government's proposal for the law on popular security in 1967. Many major words have already been used in this debate on the social security settlement of the year and how important it was in the fight against poverty of the Government. I am reasonably sure that the government parties will promote this forward to the next elections as one of the great arrests taken by the government to combat poverty. So let's say that it's always easier to be a big guy with other people's money. As far as I can see, the government has not put a single penny on the table in 2008 in addition to what the social security policy in any case says it should do. The redistribution between the increase in the basic amount and the increase in the minimum benefits would not be possible without the initiative and involvement of the Pensioners’ Association. What comes from extra funds as a result of this, comes in 2010, and then probably the red-greens expect that there will be another government that will pay the bill for this promise. It counts as far as I am concerned, and that this will actually be done. As shown in the vote, it is a broad majority that supports both the proceeds-neutral redistribution in 2008 and the intention to reach 2G as a minimum performance in 2010. The Christian People's Party supports this, not least because the organisations of disabled people and pensioners recommended this. In the case of persons with a short period of residence in Norway, the benefit was introduced on 1 January 2006 to ensure that persons over 67 years of age with little or no pension from social security would be able to live decent lives without being entirely dependent on social assistance. The benefit was linked to the minimum pension, and it is therefore fully in line with this that the three supplementary social benefits rates are raised in the context of social security provision for 2008. It's a burden for many of our older new countrymen to have to go to Nav regularly to get economic social assistance. As far as I have experience, the arrangement works well. Most people don't ask for financial help, and Nav doesn't spend time on people who are now doing their own thing. When we know how stressed the first-line service in Nav is, and how much satisfaction many of the users are, it is worth noting that this scheme of supplementary social benefits for persons with short living in Norway is a win-win situation for both users and Nav. Users are satisfied, and Nav can take time to assist and encourage as many people as possible to find their place in the world of work. After all, a well-functioning working life is the economic foundation of the entire pension system. That's a prerequisite for a good social security settlement for all the groups we've been debating today until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e607	We have two important issues from the Labour and Social Committee today. First, the centre party is very surprised that the representative Eriksson of the Progress Party, linked to the first case, is running up a difficult debate that goes deep into the pension reform. What we're doing now is a clean follow-up to social security and a strengthening of some parts of it. The centre party's contribution to the red-green alliance has come because we want a defrosting, we want a strengthening of weak groups and also poverty reduction, which is a very essential part of the basis of our alliance. We feel the social security settlement this year is a very positive contribution, and the parties in the settlement should be very grateful that we have got to the good distribution profile we have. In fact, we have to go back ten years, to another government, which was actually bourgeois – but then I have to be allowed to say that it was the Central Party that had the Social Minister, namely Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa – in order to find a similar focus on the weakest people in the social security system. So the minimum pension for single pensioners has been increased by NOK 16 000, and then we should have a little chat in the chamber with the committee leader if there is NOK 13 000 or NOK 14 000 that have been added as an additional pension for young people. For the state, it doesn't mean anything in practice, but for the young man, a thousand times more means a lot, so we get to check it out, committee leader. That the promise is historic, we can't write off with any comments here. But we still see clear weaknesses that we must continue to work with. There are feedback that not everyone feels safe as well as possible. We will listen to that and take it seriously, but we can already see that the starting point has greatly improved after the year's settlement. Now we are following up the social security settlement by raising the overall minimum benefits on rehabilitation money, back-up money, time-limited unpaid pay and the transitional benefit to lone-parents, and we are following up on efforts to strengthen the weakest economically disadvantaged, as the minimum benefit for young people is now rising to 2.44 G, and the supplement to short-term residents in Norway is increasing. In the Centre Party, we are pleased that social security provision provides a basis for raising the benefits of those who have the least in society. At the same time, we are in a time when overall social development can lead to a cost increase that will result in a very rapid rise in the impact if no further measures are added, measures with other instruments to combat poverty and, not least, measures to stimulate business activity. There are major times of decline in the construction industry associated with a crisis that is more global than national. Here, we need to feel an obligation to follow up on employment measures. The Qualification Programme can be a very important contribution to improving the economic situation and living conditions of those who are also dependent on economic social assistance. In conclusion, the comprehensive reconversion of the housing support system is crucial for us to meet the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e622	The left supported and supported the negotiated social security settlement in ours, and we are also pleased and pleased that the benefits of these groups are increasing. Otherwise, I am satisfied that the benefits are also adjusted for those with short residence in Norway. This could easily be a technical debate, which has also been held between us when we have dealt with social security. But for us, it's not really about the technical, it's about generosity and dignity, and as the representative Engeset said related to supplementary social benefits, it's also about the dignity we have to show people who are in such a situation. It'll be directly unworthy if we can't show the kind of roughness to them in Norwegian society. That is why I do not agree with what the representative Eriksson said in his statement. But there was nothing particularly new that came from that front. We've heard this a few times before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e629	In this proposition, the Government has submitted proposals for changes in appropriations under the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion as a result of the 2008 social security balance of 608 million. kr. This appropriation allows to increase the minimum benefits on rehabilitation payments, back-payments and fixed-term unpaid pay from 1.8 times the basic amount of the population benefit to 1.97 G, to raise the minimum benefits for young disabled persons receiving these benefits, from 2.4 G to 2.44 G, to increase the transitional benefit for lone dependants from 1.85 G to 1.97 G and to increase the additional benefit for persons with short residence in Norway in line with the increase in the rates of minimum pension on social security from 1 May this year. The background to the proposals is that the Government has proposed that the basic amount of the population’s money from 1 May 2008 be increased from NOK 66 812 to NOK 70 256. According to the current guidelines, G would have increased from that time to NOK 70 934. The Government proposes that the resulting savings be used to raise the level of those benefits. Raising the minimum benefits of temporary health-related benefits and the level of transitional support for single dependants will be an important contribution to the poverty reduction of the Government. Some of those currently receiving minimum benefits or benefits just above the minimum level receive supplements in the form of economic social assistance. Increases in minimum benefits may therefore contribute to less costly double treatment, and some will no longer need such supplements. The increase in the level of performance as well as the increase in minimum benefits will provide an economic boost for beneficiaries in that group. In addition, the increase could help to reduce the costs of community financial social assistance. The government considers it essential that the minimum benefits of the temporary health-related benefits and the transitional benefit for lone dependants are at the same level. The Government therefore proposes to raise them to 1.97 G but aims to increase these benefits to 2 G. The benefit to young people who receive a disability pension was increased in the context of social security arrangements. The Government therefore considers it reasonable to increase the minimum performance of young people on temporary health-related benefits and suggests that the minimum performance of young people is 2.44 G. The Act on Supplementary Social Welfare for persons with a short period of residence in Norway currently provides three different minimum benefits corresponding to the minimum benefits under the Law on Social Security and depends on the civil status and age of the spouse. It has been provided that the level of the guarantee of additional social benefits shall correspond to the minimum pension in the amount of social security. The increase in the special supplement rates from 1 May 2008 makes it natural, in the Government’s view, to increase the rates also for additional social benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e642	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e646	In this case, it is the way, as the Council of State was also concerned, that the aim is to increase the minimum pension for lone minimum pensioners up to 2 G by 1 May 2010. In this regard, we see, as was done in the social security bill of the year, and as it also emerges in this case, that it is the lag used to finance this. Can the Council of States guarantee that the guidelines adopted by the Storting will be taken into account in the future and that the increase to take place in 2009 and 2010 will be made with fresh funds and not with a bill sent to Norwegian pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e651	Fortunately, then, I can only refer to the submitted state budget, which states that there is NOK 2.1 billion just to finance the follow-up to the matters we are now dealing with in the final stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e656	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e661	I feel the need to comment on a few things that were said. From the Christian People's Party it was said that the government had not made a donation in connection with the spring social security settlement. It's wrong. The increase in the performance of young disabled people, which I believe has a proceeds – but I get to take it on about - now! – on approx. 230 million. kr on an annual basis, additional appropriations from the Government are entered in the social security scheme. In addition to that, as the Council of State now says, money was put into next year's budget. The assumption is that the increase from the social security settlement of the year up to 2 G is a commitment made by the Government through the social security settlement. It's the whole 'deal'. It is the agreement between the pensioners' organisations and the organisations of the disabled to achieve their main objective, which they have had at the top of the agenda for many years. They agreed to redeploy some money this year, but they're getting huge increases in the future. So there's no money that's been lost here – there's someone who's talking about some money that's gone, but it doesn't. Pensioners’ organisations have been willing to redeploy the overhang from 2007, which has led to an increase in the pension rate for those who had the least. Then the representative was anxious that this kind of settlement would result in more people becoming minimum pensioners technically, and that's right. Today's pension system is such that very many, and especially women, who have had a low income, are also minimum pensioners without such a change as we now have in the pension system. But the option of not doing it the way we agreed with the organizations in ours is that those who have the smallest pensions would get even less than what they ended up with now. That is what SV said, that was what the Government thought, and it obviously meant that the pensioners' organisations were not a good idea. That you follow up, as you do in the present case, with all the other benefits, is a logical consequence of the consensus reached with the pension organisations on the minimum pension and the scheme for young people. I believe that there is a fundamentally important step that this government has taken, once a new minimum level of popular security has been established that is significantly higher than it was before. It will be an essential measure to reduce poverty in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e674	First, I just want to say to the representative of the Central Party that I think it was nice that he remembered that the Bondevik I government was the one that increased the special supplement the first time. But it was probably not just because it was a social minister from the Central Party; it was a collective government that wanted it. I just want to remind the assembly that at the time there were individual parties that said it was nauseating; that was not the way you should do it. I think it's a little strange that today it's accepted; today it's «historically» good, it's fantastic. At the time it was not well received. One of the reasons was precisely what the representative Engeset was about, that when you increase the special supplement, for someone who has only a small supplementary pension, it will turn out unlucky. So Karin Andersen and that money's gone. I didn't say that. But when it comes to creating the impression that this is «historical», I would say that the most important thing came in because one followed up guidelines that we agree on at Stortinget. That's how the big sums came in, and I think the government itself has said very clearly what they've gone to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e683	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 462]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e699	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e708	The Nav reform is an important reform for which there is a broad consensus on implementation at Stortinget. There are few political disagreements about the matter, and all parties want one to succeed in achieving its objectives. Getting more in work and less on social benefits and getting more efficient labour and welfare management will be of great importance to very many people in our country. The Nav reform is partly an organisational reform, but not least a content reform. Last year 146 offices were established and 140 new offices are planned by the end of 2008. It is important that plans are kept in relation to establishment and that there are no delays. At the same time as the establishment of offices, special administrative units are set up, and at the end of the first half of 2008, 37 such administrative units were established. At the same time as the establishment of Nav offices and administrative units, the State of Labour and Welfare shall deal with pension reform, including: the establishment of ICT solutions, changes are made in the area of health reimbursement, and follow-up work on the Sick leave Committee. In other words, the residence of work and welfare is within a demanding period of conversion. When we know at the same time that the qualification programme is now being rolled out in the Nav offices, and that the Stortinget will be dealing with Ot.prp in a short time. No 4 on redundancy payments and work performance assessments, to be introduced next year, it goes without saying that there is a busy time for many of those working in our employment and welfare management. The entire Nav reform and the changes made throughout the administration aim to ensure better and more efficient services for users and to ensure better follow-up. As of the spring of 2007, there has been an increase in the length of proceedings for several benefits, and there has been a build-up of arrears. The size is known that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare reports that a number of measures have been implemented to improve the residual situation and that it has had an impact to a large extent, but the situation is still demanding. This summer, 40 million were redispatched. to reduce the processing time and to reduce the balances. But it is clear that there is an additional need to strengthen the Employment and Welfare Act, so that they are able to implement the wishes of the Stortinge. Therefore, the Government has proposed to strengthen the department by another 60 million. kr, which is widely agreed by the Labour and Social Committee to support. I have noticed that the opposition refers to the Riksrevision report, as among other things. points out a lack of follow-up of those receiving temporary unpaid pay. There is probably no disagreement that it is important to take that report and all the feedback from, among other things. many users seriously. That is precisely why it is so important that we are able to implement the reform in relation to the timetable and that we are able to achieve the objectives set for it. It's going to be demanding. But it is absolutely essential that the Storting should now follow up, and that is also why it is so important that we today adopt the additional appropriations we now have for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e721	It is, as the rapporteur had in mind, a unanimous committee – and that is how it will certainly be a unanimous increase – that supports this supplementary allocation, and that is probably something that is right in view of the challenges Nav is facing. I want to say that it is incredibly important that we make the Nav reform work optimally, because as long as we see that more and more people are starting to lose confidence in the Nav reform, losing confidence in the new system, we have a big problem. It will also put the trust in the Norwegian welfare system to the test, and we as elected representatives of the people in this room cannot allow that. That's why it's also important that we establish good practice in Nav, with good competence and proper follow-up to the users we're talking about here. I would like to refer to, among others. The National Audit Office's report, which really bothers me a little bit, because we see that the procedure has gone up dramatically. We see from the figures that from 1 March 2005 to 1 March 2008 the etate is strengthened by 784 annual works. If you look at the number of users to take care of, each employee now has fewer users to care for than they had at the same time in 2005, if the figures in the budget proposal are correct, and that is what I expect them to be. I am also a little surprised that the processing time goes up, when you should initially have had a little more time for each user now than you had before. But there's probably a lot of things that make you get into a situation like that. I see that it is confirmed by the Riksrevision that there are no follow-up plans in 72 p.m. by the cases checked for temporary unpaid pay. It is also said that several offices have deliberately deprioritised the follow-up of users receiving temporary untied pay. The National Audit Office also points out that the department has major challenges in obtaining follow-up plans, documentation from Dialogue Meeting 1 and dialogue meeting 2 in relation to follow-up of the sick. I think it's pretty serious that you don't have a better follow-up on this, that the entire 72 pst. of the matters of temporary untied pay, there is no follow-up plan, and the establishment does not have reminders and has good enough procedures on it. I hope that the Council of State puts a little extra pressure on it and gets in place. Something else that worries me is the Civil Ombudsman’s report, which was published in the Evening Post on February 24th this year. If we read the 2007 state budget, we will see that it was said: ‘Chapter 605, The Employment and Welfare Act provides the basis for strengthening the ethos in isolation with approximately 100 annual works.’ It goes on in the same section: ‘The means are also available to strengthen the targeted work-related efforts of people with mental health problems in 2007.’ In the Civil Ombudsman's report in the evening post of 24 February of this year, one of the conclusions is that the case handler ‘lack of elementary knowledge of users’ needs and opportunities. The case handler had a preconceived and misconceived perception of how the health problems of users affected needs and opportunities’. It is also clear that it is those with mental disorders and disabled people who have suffered most. I think that is serious given that, in the previous year's budget, additional resources were to be put in place to improve the follow-up of this group. And then we see that the result is almost the exact opposite. That's a situation we can't live with. In the vote, we see that the position parties believe that the draft budget of the Progress Party would have led to a much worse situation. Of course, I totally disagree with that. If you read the State budget, it actually turns out that the Progress Party has granted $277 million. kr more on Chapter 605 than what the Government did in that budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e752	As you know, the Christian People's Party is a strong supporter of the objectives of the Nav reform: more at work, fewer on social benefits and better user service in society's welfare services. At the same time, we have had patient respect for the complexity and complexity of this reform. But we have now come to a point where very many aspects point towards the fact that the Nav reform is out of control and evolves in the wrong direction. The alarm messages are pouring in. In no way do users experience greater and faster follow-up. A lot of resources, mainly in the form of experience and competence, may seem to have been withdrawn from the first line service to be deployed in organisational adaptation work. Individuals have difficulty getting in touch with case handlers. The procedure is slow and dialogue meetings between Nav, the employer and the sick are not carried out as foreseen. This is serious. At the top of this, the Nav reform can cost SEK 1.5 billion more than planned. There are clear indications that the challenges related to the competence of managers and employees and cultural development between the different environments that now constitute the new overall welfare seat are underestimated in the implementation work. This is affecting vulnerable users in an entirely unacceptable way, contrary to the main objective of the reform, namely to make labour and welfare management more user-oriented. These are warning lights that should lead to drastic grips from the Government. If nothing is done quickly, we risk the whole reform going to end up in the ditch. The government is responsible for the implementation of the reform and proposes to strengthen the Labour and Welfare Act by 60 million. kr in 2008. The Christian People's Party supports this allocation. The government is also adding to the State budget to continue an interim operating grant of 100 million. kr in 2009. I think this is completely in place. However, like the President of the Official Journal of Bergen on 12 October, I believe that we need other measures than just more money. More basic organisational measures are needed to ensure competence at all levels in order to build a stronger common culture in the new entity and to ensure its functioning on the basis of the fact that the entity meets the individual with knowledge, respect and humanity. The budget needs more than the good structures and systems. It stands and falls in the way it serves its users and contributes to the goal of getting more people into work and activity. Will the Council of State make the necessary organisational and structural changes and contribute to the creation of a stronger culture for humanity and respect in Nav? I do not say that this is easy, nor do I say that the Council of State does not do its job. That would be too simple and unreasonable a claim. Any government council from any party would have had major challenges in implementing such a major reform without any major problems of any kind. But the Christian People's Party believes that the situation is so serious that it requires a broader review in the Stortinget. Dagfinn Højbrätten therefore wrote a letter to Minister of Labour and Inclusion Dag Terje Andersen on 9 October asking the Council of State to come to the Stortinget and to inform them of what he would do to ensure that the Nav reform can be carried out according to the objectives set by the Stortinget, and how he will ensure that the services requested by people are provided within acceptable standards and deadlines. I thank the Council of State for coming to the Committee to inform us about this. But this matter is so important that the Council of State should come to the plenary. We know the problem is there. People are demanding that the Government act now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e773	It is essential that we succeed in the Nav reform and we are in the right direction. But because of the circumstances that several speakers before me have mentioned, and as the case-rapporteur said, with increasing balances and a demanding working situation, the Storting is now granting increased resources to the reform. It's necessary. There are many reports that the situation may be difficult, but I have also visited a number of municipalities in the last few weeks and experienced that the atmosphere is quite good in many places. I was in the Horten a few days ago. There they had achieved their target in relation to the number of participants in the qualification programme. I was in Haugesund this Monday, and there was a positive mood. They reported that the interaction between the different departments and special units now went a lot better, that they had also turned the balance around, and that the arrows pointed the right way. So it was positive. But it's important that we do the reinforcements we're doing now. So the representative Åse Gunhild wants Woie Duesund's organisational grip now. I'm very uncertain about what you mean by that. I think the Christian People's Party has to become concrete and not just say that we're going to do something different than what we're doing. It seems very confusing to us who are going to deal with this, because we don't know what these organizational changes that the Christian People's Party is talking about. Therefore, it is also difficult to decide on them. It's also, I think, very unfortunate if you start making changes now, in the middle of a process that you're halfway into. But it is quite clear that there is a need to hold a steady hand on this reform by the Council of State, so that we ensure what everyone has agreed on. Then the representative from the Progress Party was up and said that there was a need for good competence and proper follow-up, and he called for more follow-up in Nav. He pointed out that the treatment period goes up. He also pointed out that some of the case handlers did not have enough competence in relation to the position they had. That's probably a lot of this. It's Nav's going to pay for it – and we're going to contribute to it through this additional appropriation. But there is reason to point out what it says in the budget position from last year, which I have now brought with me as a witness of truth: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party believe that there is a significant potential for increased cost control and efficiency in the new Labour and Welfare Act. These members therefore propose, in their alternative state budget, that efficiency measures equivalent to 431 million be implemented. crowns.’» Then the representative Robert Eriksson claims that this has not been done. Yes, you have. It's in the budget position from last year. And with a cut of 431 million. I do not know exactly what kind of skills you should have had in the department, what kind of more proper follow-up you should have received, what the balances should have looked like, or how you should have schooled and helped the case handlers with the knowledge and competence that everyone knows needs to be increased in many places. So I might think that in the criticism of the Nav reform and the difficulties that are there, the Progress Party should be of those who went mouse-silent in the doors and be glad that most people don't know that they have cut off in the department that is going to help people who don't have work, to get it, and who are also going to pay the benefits to pensioners and others who don't have income work. I think it would have been the purest disaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e791	First two visits. I have a somewhat good-natured visit to the Christian People's Party, which calls for a greater review. The center party believes that we absolutely should not have any more reviews now. We simply need to get the plan started. What prevents the implementation of the plan is that we have too much lag. A prerequisite for success in implementing the reform is that we are being dragged away. I can say to the representative of the Progress Party that I am joining Karin Andersen's discussion about budget. But I would like to give a warm support to one input the representative has, and there is further training and enhancement of competence in the establishment. To get to that, we have to have the remainders away. That is your key to already. What we are now giving is an increase in operating aid in order to reduce processing time and get the balances off. There is currently a huge wear on personnel, and it gives an aversion among users. On the other hand, what we see, and we have some examples of it, is that where you have come down to a good process time and got rid of the queues, the Nav reform works very well. That's what now prevents us from making this work well nationally. I'm sure the Council of State can speak for itself. But I think that the reform he has got to dispose of now will work very well when we get away from the queues and really get the time to process and for further training of the staff. We have a huge resource in this staff, which is specified and labored, and which ends and starts in other jobs. Is there something we really need to put resources on -- we can talk about money as long as we want, the budget is a prerequisite -- it's the competence of those who work here, which makes it better service for users and much easier access. When there are no queues, you also have time to pick up the phone when people call. It's that simple. Better working environment, which when we get rid of all the leftovers, is worth all of the 60 million we put in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e802	The Nav reform is important and correct. I think it's still a proper reform, which should simplify, provide more efficient management, better labour rights and not least better user rights. One would ensure cross-departmental cooperation. There is no doubt that the reorganisation has been demanding. The left has been and is for the reform. The merging of different cultures, systems, localisation and competences is demanding. A lot of recent criticism of long-term proceedings and other issues have been promoted in the media. There has also been criticism of the Riksrevision, where, among other things. are identified as missing follow-up plans for those with temporary untied pay-as-you-go. With regard to the discussion on the number, Nav has had an increase of 784 annual works from 2005 to 2008, as it also states in the suspension. In the past, it has also been pointed out that simplification and greater user follow-up, which was the intention of Nav, are unfortunately not fully achieved. The councils have to have the Nav reform at the top of the writing block's constant. With the challenges we face, with probably a greater number of unemployed people and many who have a poor relationship with the world of work, Nav will have many larger tasks to do in the future. You could say that Nav didn't necessarily work as well in good times, but now we're facing major challenges. Times have changed. You can also ask yourself if there is money that is the main problem. I'm not so sure. Nevertheless, we are of course involved in supporting what is on the case map today. But I think it's been too much of a system focus, rather than a user focus, that you should have. Based on feedback from users, and not least from the National Audit Office, it may seem that the system focus has been strong. Therefore, the importance of the implementation of the necessary measures cannot be stressed to the extent that it has the effect foreseen by the Stortinge when implementing the Nav reform. Several of the debaters before me, like Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, have pointed out that there is not only money needed. We agree on that. Karin Andersen pointed out the increasing remnants. Yes, isn't it because we've had a lot of system focus to make this interaction work? Maybe it has to be even more the user we're now focusing on. Governments point out that with greater user orientation, some of the things that are system errors will also be corrected. The remainders actually have to do with the fact that it doesn't work. The user perspective cannot be what becomes the balancing item of the Nav reform. It has been pointed out by several that it is delayed that makes you unable to acquire knowledge and competence. But here we have to have opinions all the time and more thoughts in our heads at the same time to make this work. That is why I strongly challenge the Council of State that he has a hub at the top of his writing pad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e819	In the 2008 Proposition on Strengthening the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare, the Government proposes to strengthen the operating appropriations of the State of Labour and Welfare by 60 million. kr. The appropriations shall be used to reduce the duration of proceedings and to reduce the level of subsistence. There has been cross-political agreement on the Nav reform, and I also record that the Storting understands that it is difficult to implement it. We have had the objectives of the reform in focus throughout the transition period, and must continue to have it. We know where to go, but we also have to make sure that we take care of the users along the way. The problems that have arisen to achieve the objectives of the Nav reform are addressed. It is now necessary to strengthen the procedural capacity of the establishment so that users receive their benefits within a reasonable period of time. The background to the challenges we are now seeing is explained in the proposition. As is known, the establishment of administrative units carried out in the first half of 2008, together with the ongoing establishment of the Nav Office, has contributed to production stops and a significant increase in balances. In view of that situation, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare agreed in the summer to redispatch up to 40 million. to reduce residues and process times. Fresh information shows that the agency’s efforts have produced results, by reducing external border balances and issues, both in September and October. In the next year’s budget, it is also proposed to temporarily strengthen the 2009 operational commitment of the ETA by 100 million. to compensate for production losses resulting from the implementation of the Nav reform. Through the proposed additional appropriations, the Government is addressing the challenges. I'm following developments closely, and as I said, we've all seen results. We also see other challenges in the Labour and Welfare Act, as outlined in the Proposition, and as part of the members of the Labour and Social Committee rightly points out. In particular, there are challenges related to the availability and lack of follow-up of users. In terms of availability, including telephony, the establishment is working systematically and purposefully to improve it. New technical solutions are being established, while immediate local action is being taken. Inadequate follow-up of users with health-related benefits was just one of the reasons for the Nav reform decision. New ways of following up users are now gradually coming into place. It has taken a little longer to reach the expected level of activity, among others. for the qualification programme and the new sick leave follow-up. Other instruments to help improve the follow-up of users are the proposal for the introduction of redundancy payments, which are intended to replace time-limited untiring, back-up and rehabilitation payments. I believe and believe that when we put in place the new content of Nav offices and have implemented the organisational transformations through the Nav reform, we have come a long way towards achieving the goal of the whole reform of getting more in work and activity, less on social benefits, simplification for users adapted to the needs of users, and creating a comprehensive and effective labour and welfare management. The size has supported the objectives, which will remain constant throughout the transition period. That's what we're working for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e838	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e841	The Government has sent a proposal to tender for re-routing services at the hearing. The Christian People's Party strongly opposes this proposal because we believe that mentally retarded and other vulnerable persons are not invited to tender. The proposal will be particularly difficult to understand in the light of the fact that Nav already has major challenges with today’s tasks. In addition, if Nav were to administer bids for back-up services, there would be only one stone to the burden on the floor. Does the Council really think that it is wise to put back services on offer and let Nav get even more complicated administrative tasks to deal with, taking the focus away from the users?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e847	Now it is not the case that it has been proposed by the Government to tender the refurbishment services. It is a question of bringing together an instrument for users, so that two of the offers currently exclusive to thecompetition companies can be put at a competitive disadvantage. But in that note there are two alternatives. The second option was not to make any change. It is therefore not a question of having all re-routing services being tendered. There has never been any consultation proposal sent out. My starting point is to keep users in focus. This means that when we have a system where the offer given to users depends to a large extent on the category of user, whether he is occupationally disabled or has other classifications, it is a point for us to break down the barriers, so that one can take the user's needs and use them more across the board than has been usual in the system up to now. This is the same reason why we are proposing redundancy payments. But I'm going to do it in a way that ensures that the considerations that lie in the provision of the Nav offer by the reintroduction service today are taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e854	It's interesting to hear – and, of course, the Council of State has users in focus. Many of us have probably experienced that there may not have been so much user focus in the first three years. Much of the focus has been introverted in their own organisation, and this has also helped to create the balances, which have been discussed by many. There will be many ways that users will have to stand and see that the system will come up and grow while they wait. I thought about it when I sat and heard about this, that there had been something of the same thing as that I had planted a spruce plant, and had been standing out in the woods to see that it grew up – it had taken some time. Some of the same system makes us actually have to get this user perspective constant, even though the system is necessarily not up and going. Do the Councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e859	It is a little unclear to me what the representative means by ‘introvert’. But I am convinced, as other representatives in this debate have been involved, that I fully agree with, and as I believe Skkelstad also agrees, that we should have quality and competence in the new agencies. So it is that in a process where people who have previously worked in the labour market state are now also going to start with tasks that were previously in the social security system, there is a need for skills enhancement, and if that is what the representative means by ‘introverting’ and engaging in the system, I disagree. Because we need to focus on empowerment and transfer of competences between the different competence groups to make this work. In the case of residues, there is in part a sum – yes, there are difficult conversion processes in which we are involved – that there were residues in the previous floors. So we can say that some of the challenges today are proof that there was a need to do something. That's what's in the picture right here. And as I said in my post, it is that both in September and October the balances have gone down. So it turns out that when we catch up, we're going to be able to get on the offensive, and it's going to be better in the Nav system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e866	I refer to what I also said in the post, that the number of annual works has increased significantly, and that you have better time now per person. is not what you had in 2005 if you read pure statistics. In addition, the Civil Ombudsman’s report shows that basic knowledge and understanding are lacking to identify the user’s needs and opportunities for returning to work. In what concrete way will the Council of State follow up on this, ensuring that knowledge is maintained in the best possible way, and ensuring that employees have the right knowledge to follow people with mental illness and disabilities? Because from the merger, the law has not changed so much. There are many of the same people sitting there who are going to treat the same laws now as then. Does this mean that that competence has been absent for a long, long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e871	It is true that the number of people employed in Nav has increased from 2005 until now, but it is true that each increase in the number of employees has been due to the fact that there are tasks to be followed – the introduction of temporary unpaid pay in 2005, increased efforts to combat social security abuse in 2005, the collection of contributions and payments of errors, additional appropriations in 2005. Then, in the Aetat follow-up of the disabled in 2005 and in the social security system, there was the introduction of temporary unemployment. This is how I could continue to list the measures that have led to the introduction of personal resources by both the previous government and the current one. So there have not been any more people to deal with the same issues, except that we are now putting in an extra effort to get rid of the residues. Then it is true that the Riksrevision has pointed out things that have not worked well enough in 2007, based on studies in 2007. To follow up on the Nav offices locally, we have transferred responsibility to the Employment and Welfare Directorate – to mention just one example of the operation that has been done – because we have seen the same thing as the Riksrevision has pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e878	This applies to Nav abroad. I have been trying to get in touch with Nav Ausland for four weeks. I have called the numbers that have been available, I have tried to send e-mail and fax, but no response. What will the Council of State do to improve it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e883	Nav Foreign is one of the entities in Nav that I am informed by the Director of Labour and Welfare that it has now been seized to reorganize. That is why the question is relevant and the answer is very relevant. It's just one of the parts of Nav that we're going through in depth, in terms of getting better results than what we have today. What's special about Nav Foreign is that it works like the foreign part of social security used to work. However, we are in a situation where several people leave Norway with their social security rights — it has become common among the elderly to take some periods abroad — and more come to Norway to work with social security rights. That part of Nav's responsibility is considerably increased, and there will be efforts to get better solutions for the future, precisely because of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e890	That's very good to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e895	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e900	State Councillor Andersen has been given the responsibility to implement the most complex welfare reform of post-war history. The hospital reform is pale in relation to the Nav reform in terms of complexity. This is primarily because it is about state and municipality at the same time. It is about three different disciplines and disciplines at the same time. And it's also about not just changing the structure, changing the way you work, changing the culture, changing skills, and changing the rules and arrangements – at the same time. There is no need to be critical of the implementation of this reform in order to make cheap political points. But there's a reason to be critical when we get so many signs that things aren't going well, as we've gotten lately. There is reason to be critical when so many lamps flash and the reform is about to get into discredit. It is then necessary that the responsible State Council also take a census and assess what needs to be put in place. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we must be completely concrete – to the challenge of Karin Andersen. We believe that there are clear indications that the implementation of this reform has underestimated the need to focus on competences, the need to focus on cultural change, the need for everyone first in the reform process to focus on the user. It's not too late to do anything about this, but it's necessary. In addition to what is being discussed here today, namely getting up to date, which is, of course, the basis for doing all the other things, it is necessary to lift these parts of the implementation work. I think the Nav reform has every chance of success, if during a transitional period you put in enough resources to be able to drift away in the boat when the water goes in. That's what the situation is now. If you don't make it, the boat will sink. It's the serious thing. If you don't get it done, you won't get to grips with the major cultural and competence challenges that lie there. I would like, among other things: ask the Council of State to assess whether the appropriate competence has been put in place in all parts of the establishment. Is there the right competence in the front? Is there appropriate competence in the treatment and specialisation units? Is there appropriate competence at management level? Then I'm not just thinking about the overall overall, but I'm thinking about the level of management that is responsible for following up the professional environments. Indeed, it is a great danger if such a reform underestimates the power, dynamics and needs of the social, labour and social sciences around which this sector is built.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e913	Let me first start where the representative Højbrätt ended. I fully agree with the Hojbräten that it is important that you now get east in the boat when the water is drifting in. But in addition – and I think that also the representative Højbräten agrees with me – it is important to close the holes that cause the water to enter the boat. If you constantly have to öze and öze, you finally run out of strength, and if you are far out in the fjord, you may sink anyway. So you have to do two things. I think we agree on that. Then I also very much agree with what is pointed out by the same representative, that you have to go through the competence at all levels of the organisation to make sure you have the right skills in the right place. Then I would like to say a little about what the Council of State had to say in its response to my reply, where he says that now it has become so that Nav has got a number of new problems to solve, including temporary unpaid pay. Yes, I agree with that, but then I will point out what the Riksrevision has said: ‘There are no follow-up plans in 72 per cent of the supervised cases for temporary unpaid pay’. Furthermore, ‘More offices have deliberately reduced the follow-up of users receiving temporary unpaid pay.’ That means they've downgraded these problems -- they're not doing the problems. Then it can't be what's bothering them. It cannot be that you are charged with having a task that you do not do. At least that can't be the reason why this happens. Finally, to Karin Andersen on budgetary matters: we shall be returning to a new budget debate soon. But the thing is, on the total section, we're increasing by 277 million. kr. I believe that it must also be possible to improve efficiency, because it is not just a matter of dealing with Nav; Nav also operates with a number of other things. I can do two examples. Now we see that there are a number of problems that have moved out of Nav, and the tasks that have moved out of Nav at price are far more than the ones that have moved into Nav, even though the budgets go up. This should, of course, be the starting point for improving this efficiency. In addition, sick leave in Nav is well above the national average – 7.9 pst. This means that over 1,000 people are subsequently diagnosed in the Nav system. And if you calculate it in the year effect, it'll be over 508 million. kr. Clearly, measures and measures should also be taken in the system that can be used to reduce sick leave. Measures should also be taken to reduce sick leave — at least down to what is the national average. It could also have saved considerable money. So there are opportunities to save money, but it's not going to harm the user.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e941	Let me first say to the representative Eriksson that when he followed up the photo to the Højbräten about to inject in the boat, I think he drew it a bit far in terms of that we will stop all the things that come in – if you can say so. I want things to get into the Nav system. Our challenge is to find a solution and get a result where one deals with the issues that come in within the deadline. One must probably be minded that there are things coming to Nav in the future, too, I think. The reason I asked for the word was the constructive article for the Højbräten. And we've had constructive conversations about the challenges that are. With regard to the balance between structure and content of the reform, I have been asked questions in the Stortinget earlier, not now, suggesting that someone is becoming impatient as to when to stop saying that we are still involved in the implementation of the reform. But it's important to stress that we are. There are 160 local Nav offices to open until next year. So it is that much of the content of the reform is launched next year, among other things. the transition to redundancy pay. That's why we're in the middle of the reform now, and it's important to bring it with us. I think it is absolutely right to make the changes that are made to structure, while changing content, because if not, people must first re-school to use the old legislation in their new jobs, and then learn a new code afterwards. There would be two conversion processes, and I think there is a broad consensus – at least among those who have been involved in this reform – that it is right to run both parts in parallel. Then there's a lot of the leftovers, which is the starting point for the additional appropriations we're discussing right now, is a lot of the key. Because when the leftovers go down, as they have done in September and October, fewer calls are noticed at each Nav office, because there are not so many leftovers to call about. And then we get an improvement in getting in touch with Nav. That's why there's a lot of the key to achieve a lot of the other. So for organizational grips. It is also true that yes, we do so on an ongoing basis. In part, there are changes in the persons actually in management functions — there is a dynamic process at state level, e.g., running continuously — the same applies to the special unit. I have already mentioned on a specific question that Nav Ausland is one of the units that are now being re-assessed, not least because there are many new tasks. The representative Woie Duesund initially had a comment, as proof that the reform was not entirely under control, that expenditure had increased by $1.5 billion. Then I must be allowed to stress that it was the current representative of the Højbrätten who presented the message that amounted to NOK 3 billion in its time. I am not going to criticise the Højbräten because that estimate was incorrect, partly because it was emphasised that there was uncertainty about the estimate, and because it was particularly pointed out that ICT costs were going to increase. So I think we should leave it behind – and find constructive solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e955	I too am pleased with the way the representative Højbrätten points out the breadth and depth of the reform – to put it this way – how big and extensive this is, and that it is demanding. And what you know about such changes is that they always – and I will always stress – lead to great wear and tear among the employees and great costs of conversion. There's a lot of research that shows. And it's hard to accept when someone who comes to Nav experiences that you don't get the service you should get. But that's something that we, as policy makers for the reform, knew would happen. And then there's a question of whether there'll be shorter queues on the phone or fewer stays with hundreds of fewer employees in Nav, as the Progress Party actually suggested. Now it is the case that today the Progress Party is voting for a budget that is more than half a billion larger in operating expenditure in Nav than they themselves presented. I don't know what their alternative budget for next year looks like, but I'm assuming that as they vote for this budget level today, they've gone away from their view that it's possible to cut hundreds of jobs in Nav, because they also, like us, realize that here there are people sitting and answering the phone, sitting and processing applications from people, sitting and following up people who need help to get back into work. That's what this is all about. It's about people doing the jobs. And the government and the big crowd are concerned that we have to make sure of this, because without people meeting you at Nav, taking the phone, processing your application, the Nav reform won't work. And in all the speeches today, there's talk of the competence of the employees, that they're going to meet the users with dignity, that they're going to have time to talk to them, that you're going to have individual follow-ups. All of this is about there having to be the right person in the right place – at least there has to be a human being there – and then we have to have budgets to make sure there are employees to do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e962	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 463]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e978	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 463]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e996	There is every reason to be very conscious of how we manage society's positive attitude to aid and development aid. These are two different aspects: as awarding policy makers, we must be able to show our own voters and taxpayers that the resources are used well and that they produce demonstrable results. At the other end, we have the receivers, the people who would benefit from the effort. We also need to be able to look them in the eye and know that yes, the effort arrived as it would without undue loss. This was probably also one of the backgrounds of the adoption of the The Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness reform programme by the world community in March 2005. The main objective was to develop a partnership where developing countries should be responsible for their own development. It was also agreed that donors and recipients should hold each other mutually responsible for achieving concrete development goals. Assistance can not only provide the development policy such as: may lead to the achievement of the UN Millennium Goals, or MDGs. It is widely accepted that democracy, economic growth, social development and environmental considerations are important prerequisites for development in all countries, as well as equality, respect for human rights and sustainable environmental solutions will be the basis for improving the lives of poor women, men and children. In 2008, one hopes that three different international conferences will contribute to speeding up these objectives. It is The Accra High-Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness in September, the UN High-Level Event on the MDGs in New York also in September, and the follow-up meeting Financing for Development in Doha on approx. two weeks. I am aware that the Doha meeting will deal with a broad set of issues. One of them is the development of the effectiveness of assistance and development, as demonstrated by the Accra Final Document, which was sent to the Doha meeting as a contribution. This is also the basis for this interpellation. I want to focus on two main elements: the ownership of the recipient country for its own development and the transparency of documented development results. First on strengthening ownership for own development. After Accra, it is proposed that developing countries take more responsibility for and governance with their own development. This means that the country's own Parliament and civil society must be more actively involved in policy-making and monitoring. The donors are expected to respect the priorities on such a basis, invest in beneficiary institutions, make increasing use of their own systems in assistance and increase the long-term predictability of the means of assistance. The use of recipient’s national systems was already a theme of the Paris Declaration, including, inter alia: systems of public financial management, procurement, auditing, and assessment of social and environmental conditions. This is intended as an important contribution to the development of the recipient’s own capacity, and after Accra the donors have committed themselves strongly and very explicitly to follow up. However, it is worth noting that the parties to Accra also added that donors and recipients together would assess the quality of the land systems, in a process where the recipient takes management by means of agreed methods and tools. In my view, this is absolutely crucial. The combination of assistance transferred in the form of budget support and the confidence that the developing country has its own management systems that maintain objectives can become a high spillage. And the game is not just about big money, but also about trust in our own people that we succeed in doing this for the benefit of those who really need it. It should therefore be essential for the Storting to hear the views of the Council of State on how Norway in Doha will respond to this challenge. How can we help put meat on this bone, which unfortunately many places are pretty riddled? As donors, we must expect management systems to initially maintain certain minimum quality standards. They must not be sophisticated or perfect at all. On the other hand, it is important that the systems themselves be regularly monitored and that they show signs of positive development over time. No ‘quick fix’, but that the road is going straight from a proper point of view. So to the second theme, openness and documented development results. Finally, development policy will be judged on the basis of the impact it has actually had on the lives of the poor of the world. The effect must then be demonstrated. It will require greater transparency and accountability in the use of development funds. Transparency and accountability will also in themselves be strong drivers of development. A focus must be on the construction of cost-effective evaluation tools. There may be national statistics, budgeting, planning, or methods of monitoring. As a giver, we have experience of investment in just such purposes. And as the tool becomes available, it needs to be used in a targeted way, for example. to monitor the effectiveness of assistance. Another focus must be on «transparency», or transparency, and responsibilities for achieving objectives. This has been a central issue ever since the Paris Declaration, and several instruments are involved. In order to make assistance more transparent, the Government of the beneficiary country must deal with its own Parliament, which should be involved in the prioritisation of the objectives of the assistance, have an overview of funding, procurement, accounting and audit under priority programmes, and must also receive feedback on results and achievement of the objectives. Joint performance assessment of donors and recipients will enhance transparency, which must also provide transparency for civil society. These are the prerequisites for a trust relationship that I would like to hear from the Council of State confirming is part of our Norwegian standard. I also have a expectation that this is part of the basis for Norwegian contributions in Doha – not as an expression of distrust of the recipient, but as an instrument in a joint effort to make the assistance a difference to those involved. Accra recommends that peer review schemes be further developed and that participants undertake to carry out an evaluation of what has already been achieved by the end of 2009. A major aid operator like Norway should, in my view, be active in that process. Of course, a primary purpose of these arrangements is to counteract corruption, which we know is present to varying degrees in many of the areas in which we are active. A particular desire from developing countries is long-term predictability. The need for the regular roll-out of three to five-year budgeting plans and action plans increases their security in order to engage with their limited resources in their work. Although the donors in Accra found that they could reach far to meet the recipient countries at this point, there are a number of problems for us. We ourselves have a year-to-year budgeting of aid funds. In the past, the Stortinget dealt with a development policy notification of approx. Every eight years, most recently in 2004. Now it seems that the next message is already coming in the spring of 2009. Long-term priorities in the form of thematic and geographical concentrations also appear to be becoming more and more short-lived. And of course, a new government in 2009 will make its own assessments. How can the Council of State see that a person can satisfy the long-term desire of the recipient? And does the Council of State agree that such long-term arrangements in the event must be anchored in the Storting? In summary, I am curious whether the Council of State can confirm that the themes mentioned here will be natural parts of his own contribution to Doha, and on how a Norwegian-based person will contribute to further improving the effectiveness of the assistance and with transparent evidence of objectives, efforts and results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1040	Let me first thank the interpellant for raising very central and important issues – however, there is a further canvas than this that is going to be exciting in Doha. The Doha Conference is based on two scrupulous international events that will shape everyone's thinking. One thing I'm going to get back to is the acute situation in Congo, which shows what's happening in a country where a state is completely failing and breaking down. A key question in the aid debate is, of course, what can be done to ensure that countries work. The second is the financial crisis. There is concern among many that the financial crisis will lead to less focus on environmental and development measures. But I have to say that what we have seen from the most central actors globally is very promising. The French Presidency of the EU, led by Sarkozy, has been crystal clear that it is not about reducing the ambitions of poverty reduction or the environment. The Chinese Prime Minister, Wen, said the same thing just a few days ago. The same signals have come from future President Obama. I think it is a very positive image that the world's central leaders understand that this financial crisis is an opportunity to turn the global economy in a more environmentally friendly direction in particular, but also in a direction that can work better for the world's poor. Both the Accra and Doha meetings are marked by a turn of focus away from what can be said to be a traditional aid debate, which is also important, and to a much wider range of development policy issues, where investments that have a much larger volume than aid, where trade, where migrants' money is home, where countries that break down, how illegal capital movements – all these are about the framework within which aid must work – are going to be central. Of course, the amount of assistance is also important, because the more you provide assistance, the more you have the opportunity to influence these factors. That's why it's going to be a very good news to bring to Doha that Norway, together with Sweden, is the only countries in the world that are increasing to 1 pst, and that we are doing it during the financial crisis, is going to be very positively noticed. It does not just help to provide a lot of assistance – and we should give more – but it needs to be given effectively. The interpellant raises two key issues. One is ownership for personal development. And yes, I can only confirm that it has proved quite central that where a country and its political leadership take ownership and govern its own development, the chances of success are considerably greater. Budget support has just been designed as an instrument to meet this requirement from what can be called reasonably well-functioning developing countries, to control the flow of money themselves, and we need others to go into and control audit programmes, with dialogue on corruption and with all the other instruments. And everything is going to happen in full transparency. But let's also remember that the countries that are deeper into the problems are also the ones that have the greatest difficulty in taking ownership of their own development. There's a star example in the Congo, but I can mention a lot of others. Let me just illustrate this with a couple of numbers: the state budget for the Congo, which has approx. 70 million inhabitants, in the order of NOK 25 billion. The state budget for Norway, which has less than 5 million inhabitants – a fraction of the Congo – is NOK 800 billion. Everyone understands that on the basis of this tiny state budget, the Congo cannot develop a Kosmo as a national auditor, or an eco-cream or tax directorate, or for that part of the media, civil society, which should support a well-functioning state that can own, direct and manage its own development. Norway has chosen, with the full support of the Storting, to pick out Afghanistan and Sudan as the two countries receiving the most Norwegian aid — two of the countries on the globe with the greatest difficulty in owning its own development. I'm not saying this in any kind of polemics, but only in understanding that it's a very difficult topic, because the 20-30 most poor countries in the world are also essentially the countries that have the biggest difficulty taking management and governance over their own development. I agree with everything the interpellant says about the need to contribute to the structure and systems that allow a country to lead itself. The second is the requirement for documentation. That's what we've been trying to do from day one. There I am 100 pst. Agreed. No assistance can ever be measured on its good intentions. One should stop criticizing those who have good intentions. It's awfully important that people have good intentions. Let's not, in the age of cynicism, criticize people for having good intentions. It's very good and important, but the scale is whether things work and make life better for them it's supposed to help. This is why Norad has very central evaluation programmes, and it is therefore important that we get internationally comparable evaluations and studies, so that we can reach a broader consensus on what actually works, what works half well, and what may not work at all. A very important aspect of the question of aid efficiency is an international division of labour. Norway – and there will be a part of the big message that Stortinget will be discussing for spring – has indicated that bilateral assistance should focus on programmes and budget support, as well as on schemes where Norway has a special advantage, such as: oil management. Multilateral assistance should then focus on the major, broad themes, which are incredibly important, but where there are no obvious Norwegian advantages, such as: health, education, etc. And then the volunteer organizations have a very important role to play as a political driver, with people who often reach the grassroots, and who build a civil society. With regard to the specific Doha Conference, where Vallersnes will also be present and where we have a chance to discuss matters further, Norway has set four priorities for our work. I'll mention them very clearly. The first is the link between climate and development. Climate adaptation is development, development is climate adaptation, but it needs to be financed on a completely different scale from today. Climate change adaptation in the world cannot be financed by increasing aid budgets, simply because it is not very close to having the amount of money available through that method. Climate adaptation in the world must be financed through the carbon market. Therefore, Norway has also included a proposal for a 2 pst in the climate negotiations. of the global climate allowances are auctioned for the benefit of climate adaptation. That alone will create NOK 100 billion in the order of global climate adaptation for the poorest countries, if we are to have an impact on it. I don't think we're going to get through that proposal exactly in that form, but it's one of the proposals for which there's a lot of international interest, and which will be part of bringing together the Doha Conference and the conference that's going to be held 14 days later in Poznan, Poland, and which is about climate. If we have an aid part and development part that travels to Doha, and a completely different part of the world that travels to Poznan, without being bound together, we are doomed to fail. Then there are issues of illegal capital flow and financial management, on which the interpellant was involved several times, and which are absolutely central. Norway has been a global leader in the fight against tax havens and illegal capital movements. We expect that five to eight times what comes into developing countries in the form of aid will leave developing countries in the form of illegal capital flow. We are talking about a figure of between 500 and 800 billion dollars in this area. Norway has set up the Schelderup Committee to look at it, and we have taken a series of international initiatives. The joy now is not that Norway is working a lot in this area, the joyous thing now is how wide this agreement gets internationally. German and French finance ministers met two to three weeks ago and took up the fight against tax havens as their own heart cause. And the German Development Minister, Heidimarie Wieczoek-Zeul, who is one of the organisers of the Doha Conference, has made the fight against tax evasion and illegal capital flight one of its main causes against the Doha Conference. There are many good proposals in this area. But, of course, once again: for the poorest and most disadvantaged countries, it will be important to be able to build up the necessary financial management, not least tax administration. Although the tax base is low, it is at least important to build systems that make use of the tax possibilities that exist. In addition to bringing climate and development together, and illegal capital flight, women's issues and liabilities are the two main issues we're going to run on in Doha. Norway organises its own side event on how women's issues, which are fundamental to development, health, education, economic growth, are brought into the process, and we will take initiatives in the field of debt to ensure that there are references in the text of the question of illegitimate debt. Either you use the word or you don't use the word, we have to get responsible lending. Many new countries are now coming to lend. The financial crisis will also make it possible for new countries to raise loans and the issue of accountability in lending becomes very central. So the Doha conference is going to bring up a lot of questions. We must continue everything from the previous corresponding conference in Monterey, and then we must re-examine the new point of intersection between the financial crisis, the climate crisis, the food crisis and the energy crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1066	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer so far. I had two main issues. I'm recording that the government council was in on both. With regard to the quality of the recipient's management systems, I have noticed that one in Accra is for the donor and recipient side to merge into a work on how to monitor the development of agreed methods. Here it takes some practical work, where I hope we can be involved in developing methods that we think are good enough. I noticed with great interest the four main areas of engagement for our engagement in Doha. Of course, I am aware – I also said that in my first post – that the breadth of the Doha agenda is considerably greater than what was my theme here, but I still think it was right to highlight this, especially when one looks at the evolution from Accra to Doha in the context. I think there are four good main fields of action that were mentioned. With regard to the first climate in terms of development, I really hope that one at the Doha meeting can go a little further in defining what an international will consider to be developmental climate policy. We need a limit rise here. That is not all — it was also within the Council of State — in the climate and environment that are relevant to development. We're basically missing a much clearer limit for the practical work we're now moving quickly into. There was one theme I mentioned in my first post on which the Council of State was not involved, and it was this with the long-term and the anchoring of long-term measures and ties to recipient countries in its own national assembly, i.e. the Storting in our case. The Council of State may have the opportunity to come back to the way a person sees it to be possible to do it. But I would like to say, as an advocacy, that long-term plans and aid commitments must be anchored in the Stortinget, that there is also considerable long-term commitment, commitment and commitment in the final documents to which a government subscribes at this type of meeting that one in time had in Monterey, in Accra and now in Doha. I would have thought it would have been natural for the Council of State itself to have taken the initiative for a debate or a consultation with the Stortinge in connection with this type of meeting. The size has suitable forums for just such a dialogue with the Government. Today's debate gives us an opportunity for an exchange of views on the subject and for an insight into the main lines of what the Government will bring to Doha. And I think the Storting should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1083	To begin with, we are open to consultation with the United Kingdom both on the Doha Conference and on the Poznan Conference, which are the two major conferences that are now coming. Let's just have an informal contact about what's the appropriate forum for that. As these are completely open processes, I have not understood, for example. the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs as an appropriate forum, but I am fully open to finding ways to inform the Committee, or to have dialogue on it in the Grand Chamber or in any other way. Let me comment on the relationship between development and climate, because it's clear that next year this will be one of the major international themes in this area. There are, of course, three Third World-related things in the climate field that need to be financed. It is climate adaptation, forest conservation and technology and technology transfer. In the case of climate adaptation, it is difficult to see any theme that is not identical to development. The typical climate adaptation measures would be the conversion of agriculture into a more dry climate, a more robust agriculture or the management of floods from rivers in Himalayas, which is crucial for agriculture in countries such as India, Bangladesh, etc. There may also be cyclone protection in Haiti or Madagascar. It is not possible to imagine any kind of climate adaptation measures in the poorest countries that are not identical to development. Climate adaptation in the rich part of the world, the dikes in the Netherlands or the protection of Bryggen in Bergen are, of course, not a developmental issue. In the case of rainforest, I see it in the bottom and ground just the same way. There may be some grey areas, but mainly all themes within the rainforest and development measures. It's about helping people who live in a forest, to get a better and more decent life without having to cut down the forest. It's not that different from helping people who live on a savannah, or people who live on a rice field. In the field of technology, there is a good deal different. There could be areas of technology that are concerned with helping the poorest countries to develop other technologies. For example, Norway has long supported the Church's Emergency Aid solar projects – I myself have been and seen them both in Afghanistan and Mali. We've been supporting them for years. The aim is to provide villages with a certain degree of electricity through solar cells – radiant climate action and technology transfer measures. Other areas are less relevant. A clear example of this would be carbon capture and storage. Carbon capture and storage is a technology that needs to be developed in the most advanced, rich countries, i.e. EU, Japan, USA, Australia and Norway. Once we have developed that technology, it may be time to make it available to the poorest countries at a later stage. Technological developments must take place with us, and it will require substantial State subsidies, possibly regulation of the markets with us in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1098	It is great that we in the United Kingdom have a number of opportunities to discuss all aspects of development policy, both through annual reports from the Council of State, through budgetary proceedings and through numerous calls from representatives of the Foreign Affairs Committee, where we invite the Stortinget to discuss Norwegian development policy priorities, the impact of aid and, as today, what are the Norwegian positions in the international rounds, and how we follow up international commitments. We need more debate and not less debate on this, and I think the interpellant should have commended for having raised the debate here today. At home, public debate has long focused more on the percentage target than on the impact of aid, but fortunately it is no longer the case. In my opinion, the government has done a lot to focus more on the results and impact of the assistance, and fortunately, in recent years, we have had a broader public debate on how to set up our aid money, and what is development policy. When we discuss the use of aid, it is important that we relate to the world as it actually is. Not all assistance has failed and no effect. It's not like all our aid money is going to help finance corrupt heads of state. The truth is quite different, but unfortunately it is both parties and other actors who want to produce it this way. It is important that we take the discussion of the weaknesses of what we are involved in development policy, and that we are constantly working to improve the systems. The National Audit Office recently produced two reports dealing with development policy. In its study of the effectiveness of Norwegian humanitarian aid, the Riksrevision comes with criticism that we must take seriously. It will include, among others: Note that the U.D. often has too long treatment periods, that there are weaknesses in the funding system, that foreign stations are too little involved, and that the follow-up to assistance is not always good enough. It is good that the U.D. in its response they agree that there is a clear potential for improvement in administration. We must also take this seriously in the Stortinget, and we also have a responsibility. We also need to set up the overall distribution of funds for the department in such a way that we can facilitate the most efficient use of funds. The size of the budget is now examining proposals for 2009 and, in this context, the Committee is conducting consultations. Among those who were at the hearing last week, there were those who thought that Norway should not pursue developmental imperialism. It was Oil for Development and SN Power they had in mind. Of course, it is not the case that, in Norwegian development policy, we are driving some form of imperialism by spreading our solutions and our ideas, and do not take into account the needs of developing countries. I believe that the hearing bodies that meant it are missing when they don't see what we're doing and why we're doing what we're doing. Many countries in the world have large natural resources, as Norway has. Nevertheless, there is one rule that applies almost without exception to all, and it is that they have not managed to manage the income from these resources for the joy of their inhabitants. We all know Angola. But it also applies to other countries and to other types of natural resources than oil. This applies, for example: Zambia and the copper deposits where, by the way, Norway, through its efforts, contributes to an increase in the country’s revenues. Management systems are a matter that the Government is fortunately focusing on in development policy. Our management of our common oil wealth has become known for, and we are sought by many countries. It is an area in which Norway stands out clearly in favour, where we have the advantage and should contribute. We are also looking at the popularity of the oil for development out there, it is requested. Norwegian competence requested. Money on the aid budget is one thing, but transfer of competences and policies are even more important. It's about contributing where we're the best and most in demand, and it's not about pushing our ideas on others. One of the main features of the Paris Declaration is national ownership, self-determination in the recipient countries, and support for aid and development aid in this way under their own development plans. That's why I want to spend some time talking about one of the most controversial classic tools in Norwegian aid policy, precisely budget support, which I think is one of the best means of achieving development. Budget support is an important instrument that is just responsible to the authorities of the beneficiary countries for taking responsibility for their own development. It is important because it supports under its own plans, it contributes to state building and therefore long-term development, and it involves parliaments. When it works, it leads to more transparency around administration in many countries, and I think it's a paradox that the parties on the right-hand side of Norwegian policy are among the top critics of that kind of effective assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1115	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important question. I feel that to a large extent, we have these issues in focus in Norway. I'm very happy about that. It's a good interaction between government and big business about it. How much ambition we're going to have in this kind of international process, sometimes I'm a little bit unsure of, but it's important that it happens. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we in Norway are in the forefront anyway, which I think we are. We never have to rely on an international umbrella to have the control systems we need in place. Interpellant started by referring to the Accra meeting, where hopes were quite high, not least in relation to the fight against corruption. I registered the statements of Transparency International, which were relatively downgraded after the meeting. They were disappointed with the result and thought it absolutely not obligating enough. They illustrated this by saying that in Africa alone, $148 billion is lost every year as a result of corruption. If that number is correct, I don't have the assumptions to judge, but yet I'm sure there's huge amounts that disappear as a result of corruption. The fight against corruption everywhere is important and fundamental to combating poverty. If we don't get control of corruption, says Transparency International, it threatens to undermine assistance as an effective tool. We have long pointed out, and others have also pointed out that we have a challenge related to aid, including Norwegian aid. The representative of the Trettebergstien drew up the budget support, which should be what really shows the way forward. There are challenges to that. One of the challenges is what the Council of State was about, that Norway chooses to provide assistance – which we are also involved in many times – to countries with a significant democratic deficit, to say it very carefully. So let's open our eyes. Both the Council and the undersigned were in a meeting organised by the Church's Emergency Aid on Monday, where a report was provided on how many countries score on development policy. One of Norway’s poor scores in terms of assistance is that we choose to provide support to countries with poor democracies, thereby weakening the control of this money. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, everyone is involved. This is something we go into with open eyes, so it's a challenge. There's something we have to take with us and try to deal with. Then to the UN. I can't help not taking it up in this context. The National Audit Office reviewed and revised the accounts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2007 for the bilateral assistance to Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka. What hit me is that Norway has supported the World Food Programme's 100 million-dollar land programme in Nepal. kr over the period 2002-2007 and no audit reports have been received during that period. Now I have no reason to say – and I don't think the National Audit Office has – that the World Food Programme is not using the money they get from Norway correctly. But it is clear that when we ask for control and anti-corruption work in African countries, we must not least demand an organisation such as the United Nations and their sub-organisations to provide adequate documentation on the transfers they receive from, among others. us. By the size we have in terms of contributions to the UN system, we believe it should be a priority task from Norway to point this out. It may have already been done, but it may be even stronger by saying that the kind of lack of reporting we do not accept for continued contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1126	I would also like to thank the interpellant for having addressed this interpellation, because it gives us an opportunity to discuss important issues that will be raised at the Doha meeting. As the Minister for Development said, there is a broad canvas of themes to be addressed, and I will take some of them to heart. I would also like to say that I very much agree with the Minister for Development, who calls for the discussion to be about development as something far more than assistance. A theme that belongs here is tax evasion, tax evasion and tax havens. Trevor Manuel, who is South Africa's Finance Minister, says this: ‘There is a major imbalance between supporting increased assistance and closing the eyes of the actions of the major multinational companies that undermine the tax base of developing countries.’ Therefore, we need to stand firm on the aid target while working for system changes nationally and internationally and to move power and resources to people. We must not be a voice for the deaf, we must work for a voice for the deaf. The Minister for Development has raised some important issues in the international arena that are also raised in Doha: climate finance, women’s rights, illegitimate debt, illegal capital flight and tax havens – the last in close cooperation with the Minister for Finance, because it now turns out that this issue is also an important part of the financial crisis. In the message setting On a level playing field: Women's rights and equality in development policy, a unanimous committee stated that it is necessary to follow up the work of "Financing for Development" with "Women's Watch" simply because women make up most of the world's poor and those with the least power. Therefore, we must and should be clear from the gender perspective in the strategic discussions with the national authorities of the countries to which Norway provides budgetary and sectoral support. It's not contrary to ownership. Administrations simply have to be held responsible for women’s rights. A key prerequisite is support for women's self-organisation and mobilisation from below. At the 52nd UN Commission on Women in Ours, there were clear messages that the work on gender equality was underfunded. Therefore, I am pleased that Norway has been and is an ambassador for funding and for women’s rights at both Accra and Doha meetings. When the Minister of Development went to the brave step of eradicating all debts after the shipping campaign, the international indebtedness movement went up. Gail Hurley of the Eurodad European Debt Laundering Network said: ‘This is a groundbreaking decision that is of great importance in relation to other lenders who have previously acted irresponsiblely. We encourage Norway to continue to be at the forefront of international efforts to gain an understanding of illegitimate debt. It is not fair for today’s population in the debt-reduced countries to continue to pay the price of corrupt, reckless and politically motivated lending activities that have occurred in the past. Today silence has been broken and we encourage other creditor countries, especially in Norway, to follow the courageous leadership of Norway.’ Later, we have addressed this in the World Bank, and the Development Committee says that Norway must follow up on debt cancellations by initiating international mechanisms for responsible lending. That's exactly what Norway is doing in Doha. There is nothing in what can become the final document that refers to illegitimate debt. I have been informed that the international debt cancellation movement is working on blasts to gather support for Norway's proposal, and I would like to thank our fellow players who challenge us and give us support. We will continue this work in cooperation with civil society. Tax Justice Network has shown that the poorest countries miss at least NOK 3000 billion of lost tax revenue each year because of tax evasion and tax competition. It is eight to ten times more than the total assistance to these countries. Much of this money is hidden away in tax havens after robbery on the country's natural resources. Those who serve on it are large multinationals and the political and economic elites of the countries. That's why it's incredibly important to see the relationship between corruption and tax havens, and I'm glad this is being followed up in Doha.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1157	Let me also start by giving tribute to my colleague Finn Martin Vallersnes for having addressed this interpellation. It gives Stortinget an opportunity to discuss how the intentions of the Paris Declaration and the Accra meeting are followed up in Norwegian development policy. The Government has not done so, nor in its budget proposal for the year. I'm glad the Council of State is open to do so in the future. The Paris declaration of increased aid efficiency provides five key principles: U.S. countries need to be given stronger ownership of their development strategies and cooperation. The donor countries need to align assistance more closely with their own development strategies. The donor countries need to harmonise their aid efforts between themselves and have more transparency. Resource use and decisions need to be strengthened in order to achieve development impact. The donor country and the developing country share responsibility for the results of development cooperation. Basically, these are good principles, but they must not just be bureaucratic exercises for a few. On the contrary, wider public participation in development cooperation is needed. Although the Accra meeting took some steps forward, many in the south had wanted more binding deadlines for implementation. With regard to national ownership of development, it is not enough to talk about and with the bureaucratic elites, one must also pay more attention to democratic ownership, involve parliaments and civil society, open dialogue and consult affected and poor peoples. Providing assistance more in line with the developing strategies of the developing countries is a good development, but not only can it be assumed that there is a government apparatus with strong governance, precise priorities and sound strategies for poverty reduction, as the Council of State also stated in its response. In many of the least developed countries, this is not the case. In practice, assistance to strengthen democratic processes and governance is essential. There has been a strong focus on the use of developing countries’ own national systems rather than external ones. But then the country's own financial management and audit institutions have to work well, otherwise increased use of budget support via national systems may fail. Therefore, assistance is needed to ensure efficient use of resources, to develop national programme monitoring, evaluation and audit, and to ensure transparency, transparency and the fight against corruption. The national audit and civil society can be valuable partners here. I fully agree with the inter-pellant: with the increased use of national systems in development cooperation, it is equally important to ensure quality in these institutions. Assistance to this, therefore, becomes central. I have noticed that another central aid country, Denmark, has been subject to its own development cooperation criteria of the Paris Declaration and published its results. I would like to ask the Minister for Development whether he intends to do something similar with the Norwegian development cooperation, for example. in the groceries message that he is now working on. In order to succeed, it will also be important to strengthen civil society in developing countries. The cooperation of voluntary organisations with partner organisations in the south is a key to this. There may therefore be a double warning when we see in Norwegian aid that state-to-state cooperation in rural programmes is now down to 20 p.m. and that the budget chapter for the long-term assistance of voluntary organisations also receives a marked drop in the aid budget. Here it's possible we have a homework lesson to do. At the Accra meeting in September, countries in the south demanded greater predictability of assistance. They must, of course, plan long-term investments and programmes. Norway too has a challenge here. We do have budgetary systems that require annual decisions. We have in some cases managed to create mechanisms that contribute to greater long-term sustainability. My challenge to the Council of State is whether the Government is working on reforms at this point that can make it even more effective to follow up the expectations of predictability and long-term assistance. Can we, for example: change our budgetary principles and provide predictable funding over three to four years? Predictability would not be easy if the largest opposition party had adopted its proposal to halve long-term assistance from one year to the next. I am more surprised, however, that the inter-pellant's own party, Right, also cuts the aid rate strongly in its recent budgetary options. We'll have plenty of opportunity to come back here in the hall later this fall. But I had hoped that the Right had followed up the more positive paces from last year. And I want to say to both parties: to give tax reliefs to the Nordics covered by cuts in aid flavors of nationalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1199	In the years in which it has been sitting, the government has presented budget proposals with a historical commitment to the environment and development. With a budget of DKK 26.2 billion for international assistance, the target is 1 pst. of the country’s GNI reached – a total of SEK 3.9 billion more than in 2008. Yeah, that's the Center Party proud of. When allocating funds, it is equally important to ensure that they actually achieve our objective of positive development in developing countries. It is therefore an important theme for Vallersnes to address in this interview, namely the evaluation of the impact of assistance. The Central Party will closely follow up on what appears at the Doha meeting in November, and would like to thank the Minister for his presentation on his preparations for this meeting and further work in this area. We are pleased with the Minister's focus on developing countries' own ownership of plans and projects and their responsibilities for their follow-up. The Minister mentions that Norway is on the right track. We provide more support for larger programmes and budget support. In addition, Norway concentrates bilateral assistance on areas where we have competence and priority. However, international recessions will also be affected here. Increased trade for the poorest countries requires increased production capacity and improved processing, storage and communication systems. It is therefore important that the action plan on agricultural development as an input is followed up. The centre party is concerned that this will continue to be the Norwegian industry development input area. Half of those who starve in the world today are even peasants. Contributing to food production for self-sufficiency is therefore essential. Development is not mainly created by transporting food over enormous distances. The food crisis means that food production and the way in which it is organised must be given priority in order to achieve development. Making agriculture work in developing countries will also have a major impact on the rest of society. Female-oriented assistance in agricultural development has proved to be an effective development measure. The starvation of people today is the biggest obstacle to development. FAO has said that with DKK 156 billion per year. years may be halved. Today, 920 million people are starving. If we compare to the United States that spends $4,000 billion to solve its financial crisis, we realize that $156 billion is not an unrealistic amount. In other words, it is possible to help all the hungry if the will is there among the rich countries. The fight against corruption and tax havens must continue. I am therefore pleased that our Minister for Development has a focus on state building, which is a challenge in vulnerable countries. This is important to put in place, so that nutritionists can also be required. Here comes social responsibility. It is important to intensify work on binding guidelines for international business. This is particularly important for Norway, because we have several companies where the country has a high proportion of its holdings in poor countries. We're talking about countries where human rights and workers' rights are not respected. Such binding guidelines will make an important contribution to the benefit of developing countries as a whole, not only investors and a narrow circle of their inhabitants. Civil society is also important to monitor the effectiveness of assistance. When assistance is provided through government apparatus with the aim of building nations, building a strong civil society is crucial in parallel. In cooperation with the local population in developing countries, we are best able to document and monitor that our assistance contributes to a positive development there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1220	I would also like to begin by thanking the interpellant for raising an important and interesting question about how we can follow up the Paris Declaration in Norway, the Accra Conference and prepare for the Doha Conference. Secondly, I would like to stress the importance of maintaining a high quality of assistance. In order to ensure a broad political response to relatively high aid allocations in the future, it is important to point to efficiency and concrete results. At a time of considerable increases in the aid budget, it is particularly demanding for us to ensure that the quality keeps up with the quantity. In general, therefore, I believe that the appropriations for quality assurance and evaluation should increase as the aid budget grows. The left has therefore proposed in the next year’s government budget to increase the appropriations for evaluation and quality assurance, including 20 million. SEK to Norad and 20 million. kr for research, empowerment and evaluation. These means shall be earmarked for independent quality assurance and evaluation. The aim is to learn from errors and shortcomings related to ongoing or final aid projects. This learning shall be a systematic part of the decision-making basis for future assistance. Furthermore, the appropriations shall be used to further develop new approaches and methodologies for evaluation and quality assurance, both at national level and in cooperation with other like-minded donors. Methodology and indicators for evaluation are key here, together with independence. In other words, independent bodies should provide the evaluations without contributing to the creation of a boom in the established consultancy industry, I believe that the beneficiary of the assistance should be more involved in the evaluations. It has also been the Council of State within today. They're the ones who have to live with the results of the projects, and they know best if they're working or not. I agree with the inter-pellant that if we are to use the evaluation systems of the recipient countries, it is important to ensure the quality of the systems. At the same time, I'm sure it's not just those who have something to learn from us. That's probably a lot we can learn from them too. One problem I want to raise is that some of the Norwegian aid funds are channelled through multilateral organisations such as the UN. They have skills that we don't have, so they can use them in a more efficient way than we can. They also have their own evaluation and quality assurance systems, and they have been consistently assessed not to be as good as desirable. When we channel aid through such channels, we are, in effect, losing much of the control over the money. I therefore believe that, together with other important donor countries, we should look into the evaluation and quality assurance systems of the UN and other organisations with a view to proposing improvements. I think it is positive that Norad has presented its first annual report on the evaluation of Norwegian aid. The impression I am left with is that there is a lot of good work done, but there is also a lot that can be done better. The report is based on some evaluations that are likely to have a general value, but they cannot be expected to capture everything. So you can quickly lose the whole of your vision. It's here nearby to see Sweden. The Swedish National Audit Board recently evaluated Norad’s sister organisation, Sida. The conclusion was that this guy has routines that don't hold goals, unfortunately. Errors and abuses have not been captured in Sida's control procedures. In Denmark and Sweden, it has been assumed that the number of recipient countries, the number of recipient organisations and the number of evaluation bodies is too high. I think this is something we should look at here too in Norway. We provide assistance to well over 100 countries. Some countries get a lot, others get a little. It seems clear to me that with such a spread of aid, it will be difficult to maintain not only focus but also quality. This is something also pointed out by the OECD to Norway. Operation under much different conditions in all corners of the world is a demanding exercise that few people fail to cope with. If you want too much, you often end up not getting anything. Norway should probably not target itself to become a mini-FN.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1244	I would like to thank the Council of State for his other contributions and answers, and also all the participants in the debate. I feel that this is a very central issue, and of course, development policy, as I said in my main post, is considerably more than the bounded theme I traveled here today. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of assistance and the evaluation of what we actually do with it will be a subject that will at least persecute us. I want to reiterate the Storting's interest in and the need to clarify what are development-relevant climate action. I appreciated the open feedback from the Council of State. We can have different assessments of this. It is no secret that the Right for its part fully supports the rainforest allocation, but we could well imagine that it was somewhere other than under the aid hat. – So these are the different assessments of. Some might say that it is all the more necessary to clarify what are development-relevant climate action, when we have one government council that manages both environmental and development policies. I would also like to add that this is precisely an unimaginable reason for making the border crossing or coordination that must exist between two policy areas of this kind. Here we meet the efforts of the Council of State. Like the Højbrätten representative, I would like to reiterate the issue of our adaptation to the long-term predictability of the recipient countries. It wasn't the Council of State. It's a difficult subject. This is challenging, and it is a real problem for the recipient countries. I would like to repeat that if you add up to new budgetary procedures, for example. in this area in order to adapt, it is at least necessary to anchor in the Storting. Then I look forward to the Doha meeting and to observing Norwegian contributions and how they are received. Then we will have the opportunity to debate this again when we meet for the budget debate on 9 December.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1257	Thank you for a good debate. Let me point to a couple of dilemmas. One of the most obvious dilemmas was Annette Trettebergstuen inside – and this is not polemics at all; this is just a finding of how difficult this is: on the one hand, we all want to follow up the Paris Declaration. On the other hand, just the clearest expressions of the spirit and policy of the Paris Declaration are the most critical or questioning of the Biggest. There's nothing clearer about it than the idea of budget support, which is ownership par excellence. It's the most critical development policy issue in the United Kingdom, as I can record it. It is also the clearest logical consequence of the Paris Declaration. Another theme that I also see there being many question marks in Stortinget is precisely this international division of labour coming out of the Paris Declaration, for which Norway is a real champion, because we focus our bilateral assistance in areas where we have special advantages: peace mediation, women's issues and oil management – to mention some areas. So we can't both celebrate the international principles in this area and be most critical of what's the logical consequence of them. But the development message will, of course, address many of these issues, including the climate issues asked by the interpellant. I would like to call for greater long-termity, on which the Højbråten was in. I don't think the government is going to propose new budgetary systems, which in practice will deprive the individual of direct power from year to year. If that's the wish of the Storting, I'll be very happy to facilitate it, but I'd like it to come from the Storting, so that we don't get a situation where we create the impression that the Government wants to take control of the Storing. But that's good thinking. Finally, I would like to say that if we were to choose one country in the world where we really should say that ownership is difficult, where there is significant corruption, where there are many warlords, where there are drugs – that is, which goes against all the principles that we here uphold – it would have to be Afghanistan, which we have agreed to have first priority in Norwegian aid, and this illustrates the dilemmas. The Progress Party, which speaks the most in large letters about anti-corruption, has also opted for Afghanistan as the country where they want to spend the most money. So let's not make this easy. The other countries that are important for Norwegian aid are also very difficult countries, with Sudan as an example. Congo, which I have now registered as having a significant interest from various political parties in Norway's spending more money, is also coming close to the world peak in difficult countries and with state collapse. There they are in class with Afghanistan and a few very few others. It was Laurent Kabila, the father of the current President Kabila, who once said that the only thing that was going to do the coup in the Congo was $10,000 and a cell phone – $10,000 to buy an army, take some mining area and then call some company that would take advantage of that mining area and thus get money for a continuous new army that could create continuous unrest. It's a terribly difficult country, but a country like Stortinget and we all want to do more in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1272	Case No. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1286	The economic situation is currently unusual and uncertain, both internationally and in Norway. In situations of unrest and problems, it is important to show political commitment. The government has shown its power of action through the budget submitted, but not least through the economic crisis package and through the case of the Export Credit Guarantee Institute, which we are dealing with today. The size and opposition have also shown a willingness to find solutions, which I believe should be praised. The size of the population has acted quickly and without the major political markers, and it shows that political Norway is conscious of its responsibility. But that does not mean that we act as quickly and as vigorously as possible. Then things can quickly go off the hinges. It is about putting the right measures in place in a timely manner. During the 2009 state budget, it became clear that the economic cycle was turning around and that the financial crisis would have real economic consequences. The draft budget was therefore expansive. The government has proposed extending the framework for GIEK by DKK 10 billion in 2009. However, the financial turmoil, the dwindling dollar ratio and the high level of business activity have shown that the GIEK framework has already been used up. Therefore, the Government has asked the Storting to speed up the decision to increase the framework already now. It is important to stress the importance of the time available for these measures to take effect before any new measures are put into effect. Key players in society and business have stated that the main first step is to bring interest rates down and the money market down. The only thing that is certain is that future developments are uncertain, even in the short term. The government must therefore very closely monitor the evolution of the economy in general and of the labour market in particular. There is reason to stress the importance of the fact that any new measures are already being implemented, so that they can be put into effect quickly if necessary. We also assume that the Government will keep close contact with the Storting on these questions. Access to guarantees is essential in obtaining funding from banks and financial institutions. State instruments in the field of export finance are particularly important in periods of financial instability. Anxiety has made it more difficult to obtain loans and guarantees in the private market. It is then important that GIEK has sufficient space within its framework to meet the demand for guarantees. However, GIEK is also important for maintaining local and regional savings banks and banks. In cooperation with GIEK and its own loan frameworks, the banking diversity in Norway is given the opportunity to develop further. I would recommend the vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1307	There has been no disagreement in the Committee on the extension of these guarantee frameworks, as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out. I take the floor because I heard the President-in-Office say that the Government must now follow very closely, and that they must keep close in touch with the Stortinget. I believe that the rapporteur may not be entirely satisfied with the way the government is dealing with the situation. Perhaps there is some connection with what the rapporteur initially said that political action has been shown, and then only reference is made to the budget, which was set up a long time before this situation arose. The rapporteur also said that it is difficult to obtain loans and guarantees in the private market. That's absolutely right. The opposition has a comment on what can be done to change it, and it still has occasion to do so, because this comment refers to observations contained in the budget to be discussed by the Financial Committee, namely, in order to look into the proposal to lift the loan and guarantee prohibition for shipping companies. There the government proposes to cancel something, but not for the companies that come into the new transitional arrangement, i.e. those that have latent tax credits. So you can argue about this and say that here's the big amount, it'll be uncertain, etc. But if you go into the ordinary business world and look at how this is handled, you'll see that any enterprise, big or small, will always make its guarantees in relation to the equity they have at all times, in relation to the balance they have at all times, and there's no prohibition on or against it. I thought it was necessary in this regard to give the case rapporteur and his colleagues at the Red-Greens exactly those words on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1316	The general guarantee scheme framework under GIEK, which we are now discussing, is being increased from 50 billion kroner to 60 billion kroner. It is the main scheme of the GIEK and it is used to cover different types of commercial and political risk of exports and political risk of investment. So it's a very heavy and very important system. It has been in use for a long time and has been central to many industries in Norway. As stated in the Government document, this arrangement is not least important in times of financial instability. The government says it will not lead to any significant increase in risk exposure. However, I would like to say from this that in the situation we are now in, with the current economic conditions, it is quite clear that the risk exposure to the entire GIEK scheme is significantly greater than it has been in the time we have had the GIEK scheme. There has been hardly any public debate on this increase. It should have been. It is an increase which is very important for a very large number of export companies and which is essential for the implementation of contracts. In the past, the scheme has suffered very small losses. My main point is that those who administer the GIEC scheme have a significant increase in responsibility in time to come. In my opinion, there is a significant increase in risk throughout the international funding system. Here we are talking about state guarantees that enter if the recipient, either through export or investment, fails to pay for Norwegian companies. There will be increased requirements for the administration in GIEK to balance risks with the necessary incentives for Norwegian business. It's going to be a hard balance. I hope that the Council of State can go a little further into this, because it is quite central to continuing the GIEK system so that it is safely unloaded through the waters we are now in, and that we do not get any significant losses in the system, which may be problematic at their expense.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1329	Let me first of all thank the Stortinget for a very quick procedure. It shows that magnification and government can cooperate to the greatest extent when the situation requires it, as we all agree on the need now. I am very pleased that the Finance Committee is in favour of the Government's proposal to extend this scheme by NOK 10 billion immediately. When it is important, as several speakers have already said, the framework for the general guarantee system is fully exploited. It is currently not possible, as the situation is now, for GIEK to make new commitments under the scheme. The rapid examination of this matter by the Finance Committee and the Stortning Foundation means that GIEK will be able to continue its activities rapidly, given that the Stortinget takes decisions on the framework extension. As the representatives of Lundtigen, Klungland and the fleet said, it is very important for many export companies, particularly offshore, which are now facing major challenges. There's two reasons why it's necessary to do this fast. It is said that more people have experienced an increase in demand for these guarantees. The sum of outstanding responsibilities and commitments has approached the framework, i.e. the ceiling, of this scheme. Secondly, we know that the value of Norwegian kroner has weakened, so that you also have that situation, and the increase in the dollar rate has led to the frame being exceeded. Then, too, financial market turmoil has made it both more expensive and more difficult to obtain loans and guarantees in the private market. It is then clear that there is a greater demand for these types of schemes. The recently adopted banking package of the government, which we believe was crucial for restoring the functioning of financial markets, and thereby for business, for jobs and for borrowers in general, must also be seen in the context of the extension of the framework in relation to GIEK. Not least, it's offshore and the maritime industries that will benefit from the decision that it seems the Storting is making later today. This framework extension will also ensure that Norwegian exporters have a stable and competitive offer of State guarantees that could provide them with more stable framework conditions, as agreed. I have also noticed that the members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have raised some issues related to the shipping tax. It is now known to everyone in this Chamber that the Stortinget has adopted a competitive company tax system. This applies both to the level of tonnage tax and to the level of legislation contained in the model. It'll be stable. It becomes predictable and competitive. The ESA will hopefully be able to approve the new shipping tax scheme in a short time. However, on a general basis, I can say that the government is following the situation closely in all parts of the Norwegian business community. It also includes maritime transport. We have the readiness to be able to implement new measures if we believe it should be necessary. But I would like to join the representative of Klungland in saying that proper action must be taken in that case at the right time. I believe that the Government has now done so. I hear what the fleet representative says, but I believe that we have submitted a budget that is adapted to the situation we are in. Together with the bank package, which the Stortinget has adopted, and the fact that Norway’s Bank has now reduced the interest rate twice is a good package to meet the situation we are in, as well as the fact that we have been prepared to follow this further. The decision the Stortinget is likely to take today will also make a positive contribution to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1344	First, I would just like to say that it is positive to extend the framework to GIEK, as the Finance Committee has now debated. The reason I took the floor is that I want to ask the Minister of Industry a question related to the situation in Export Finance. Today’s Business on Saturday you could read: ‘There is almost a complete stop in the export finance lending business.’ The background is that export finance in today’s financial market has major problems in collecting its own long-term financing in the international financial markets. The export finance reports that the bank package adopted by the Stortinget does not support deposits for export finance. I recorded in response from the Council of State to a question from me about the situation in Export Finance that she referred to the banking package that was adopted for the financial industry. When it does not work, Export finance reports that it does not receive long-term financing in the market internationally. This will create major problems for them in relation to lending to Norwegian export projects. My question to the Minister of Industry, as I would ask her to comment, is whether the Government sees the need for further action in relation to Export Finance. We record that export finance itself indicates that many banks today have a state guarantee internationally, and that they use it to secure long-term financing on acceptable terms. It is also my impression after meetings with larger companies in Norway that this is a serious problem, that there is a rather acute situation, and that it is expected that the government will intervene in exactly the situation that has arisen as a result of the financial crisis. My question is whether the Government not only has the preparedness, but also the ability to act in the situation that has arisen, which lies a little side by side with the GIEK framework. But this can quickly become a very integrated case of the same problem for the Norwegian export industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1355	I think the case that is being dealt with, namely the extension of the frame in GIEK, shows that the government acts when we think it is necessary. With regard to the question of export finance, I am aware that there is a difficult situation. We have a dialogue with Export Finance, and we are now going through the situation carefully. Then it is also important to say – which is known for the Storting – that the state owns 15 pst. by export finance, and the remaining is owned by various banks. It's a ownership structure that's challenging in that context. But we're familiar with the situation, we have a dialogue, and we're going through the situation right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1362	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 464]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1380	The right has addressed this interpellation on industrial policy because we are in a situation of financial crisis and economic downturn. Since the Workers' Party's nutritionist spokeswoman Gunvor Eldegard in a post in the VG at the beginning of August this year stated that things went so far in Norwegian business, reality has changed dramatically. Now it no longer keeps talking about the good times. The reality is that the conditions for Norwegian enterprises will have a direct impact on jobs and on the livelihood of many families throughout the country. A number of years have also passed since the adoption of the code of action, with the priorities on which it was based. How were these assumptions followed up? There have been three years of so-called active industrial policy under the Stoltenberg II Government. How does active business policy work when the challenges are now in line? There are many speculations about what is happening in the future in Norwegian business. On Monday, VG had a statement of resignations recently. It was a dark reading. The stock exchange collapse also speaks its clear language about how the financial market analyses and assesses the prospects and performance developments in Norwegian listed companies. We are thus undoubtedly facing a turning point for Norwegian businesses, and the time is ripe to take a debate on how to deal with this politically in the future. I believe that there is a need for a new orientation in the industrial policy debate in Norway. We can't afford a superficial and far-fetched debate, where the only topic that really engages the majority on the left is envy propaganda and a desire to eliminate differences between rich and poor by undermining private ownership in businesses. In brackets, the stock market has done more to balance the differences than this government will ever be able to achieve with its distribution policy. The point is that this type of cohesion policy does not guarantee a single job. The fall in value on the stock exchange does not give one more penny to combat poverty. No one gets better when the values of business are lost. Nevertheless, it is the impairment on the stock exchange that gives the greatest effect in the measurement of the differences in the Norwegian society on the left. It tells us a little bit about how absurd the distribution debate in Norway has become. The reality is that when Norwegian enterprises are weakened, Norwegian jobs are also weakened. Workplaces are becoming unsafe, and employees will in the years to come be more competitive than we have seen in the last five to six years in peak hours. This is understood by most politicians in Europe, whether they are social democrats or value conservation politicians. Therefore, in the evening post yesterday, we could read that the prime minister of the United Kingdom, social democrat Gordon Brown, recommended our prime minister to cut taxes on business. Stoltenberg obviously does not understand this, because he came to the covered table in 2005 and has only managed in an upturn. As a result, the government has little experience in managing company downtimes and little experience in dealing with the situation of increasing unemployment. The government's only prescription seems to be to give more money over the budgets, and that's what's being warned about the crisis in the future. Thus, they do not see the challenge that increased public expenditure could also distort private business in the future, and it is obvious that tax policy could also play an important role in stimulating Norwegian private-sector business. If we're going to take stock of business policy, it's easy to take advantage of the NHO's competition survey. The 2008 Barometer on framework conditions and developments in the framework conditions for Norwegian industry strongly condemns the Government's active industrial policy. Director of Enterprise Policy in the NHO, Petter H. Brubakk, said: "We haven't spent the good times, the fat years, preparing for the bad." In the short-term survey of the year, Norway achieves no positions among the three best in any policy area, and the worst case is in the field of education and competence, where Norway is the second last of the twelve ranked countries. The competition barometer ranks twelve countries in ten policy areas. The criteria are: International adaptation ICT infrastructure Transport economic stability Education and skills Labour market and labour costs Research and innovation Energy and environment taxes and charges bureaucracy and simplification Norway had a decline in the latter six areas, a standstill in ICT, transport and economic stability, while the only area of progress was international adaptation. In particular, there is a decline in education and skills, energy and the environment. In other words, this is a very weak result. There is no doubt that the Stoltenberg II government, which has run for the last three years, must take its share of the responsibility for this result. I think it is central to return to the assumption behind the rule of action for the use of oil revenues, which was adopted by the Stortinget in 2001. The following comment was made: ‘The majority therefore believe that an increase in the use of petroleum should be targeted at measures that can increase productivity, and thus growth capacity, in the rest of the economy.’ This wise note put the Workers' Party, the Right, the Left, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Coastal Party behind. Further: ‘The Committee would point out that fiscal policy and investment in infrastructure, education and research are important in order to improve the functioning of the economy.’ So here the whole committee was behind it. The point is that the whole of the Storting, except for the Progress Party, agreed on how the rule of action should be applied and, when it comes to looking at what measures are giving rise to growth, i.e. for the first fiscal policy, for the second investment in infrastructure and for third education and research, the assessment was unanimous. The NHO has then calculated how the Bondevik II Government and the Stoltenberg II Government have delivered in relation to this objective, underpinning the rule of action, prioritising growth, value creation and future well-being. None of these two governments reached 100 pst. of the objective adopted by the Storting, perhaps not surprisingly, as this is about prioritising future value creation in front of others and perhaps more popular short-term measures in the budgets. However, the Bondevik II government receives a top score of 90 pst. during the period 2001-2005. 90 pst. the action space was used for measures to improve the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. This was an important contribution to the boom that today’s government took over in 2005. The government came, as the newspaper so precisely formulated, to the deck table. On the other hand, Stoltenberg II, which then took over in 2005, receives a bottom score of only 10 pst. prioritisation of growth-promoting objectives for the period 2006-2008. This might increase to 15 pst. if we input the budget for 2009. This is not so strange, as priority has been given to increasing taxes and having implemented a relatively low level of investment in the road sector. This, in my view, is a clear confirmation that the substance of active industrial policy unfortunately boils down to cheap rhetoric combined with the prioritisation of other budgetary purposes. This may be the case in peak hours, where businesses do well almost no matter what kind of business policy is pursued. This strategy, on the other hand, will not work very well in recessions and will have consequences for the behaviour of farms in recessions. Such a policy will have consequences for the number of unemployed next year. At that time, the business policy phase that has been taking place over the last few years will be evident. On the other hand, the right-hand priorities in the opposition have been consistent and clear in terms of job security and future well-being. We have reversed tax incentives and proposed reliefs to secure jobs, which improve the conditions for saving, and which increase the supply of labour to industry. In fact, taxes on wealth and inheritance are particularly important in these days. I understand the rhetorical point that an increase in property taxes affects the rich in society – I understand that point – but it must also be possible for a social democratic government to understand that property taxes are about equity in Norwegian companies, and that equity in Norwegian companies is about Norwegian jobs – it is about how many people will be unemployed for next year. The right has also proposed significantly more money for road transport purposes, within the same budgetary framework as that government has been dealing with, and it is clear that that type of infrastructure development will both improve the framework conditions for industry in the districts and create increased activity in the civil engineering sector. At the top of this, the right has proposed tighter budgetary frameworks for the years 2006, 2007 and 2008. For 2009, this is clearly not necessary, but it is about creating room for private value creation. The right has also proposed a greater focus on research and knowledge in order to provide a basis for future jobs. The remorse for research has been a strategic mispractice of this government. In addition, we have proposed many measures to improve access to labour. The paradox is that the government has also failed to prioritise good framework conditions for the so-called key industries in which it was promised to invest. The focus on tourism marketing has been puzzled, there has been a slight increase in relation to our proposal for the 2006 budget. The NOx fee was introduced for the fishing fleet, which had two years of structural freeze, and for the maritime cluster with its 100 000 employees, this government carried out a tax shock of 21 billion kroner. We're going into a new era for Norwegian business. The budget that has been presented does not respond to the challenges that are there, and I look forward to hearing the Council of State and the debate in the United Kingdom today on how to address these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1496	The question that the interpellant raises, about the business environment, is always important, and it is of particular importance now in the situation we are in. For example, in Norwegian business, very much goes well, and the activity is high, we know that Norwegian business is and will be affected by fluctuations in international business cycle. A lot of people already notice. It is also important to remind each other that in the last four years, the Norwegian economy has had the strongest economic recovery since the 1950s. But there's no doubt that the developments we're seeing now make us into more uncertain times. At the same time, it is also important to say that Norway is better equipped than many other countries to meet this situation, including Norway. because, over many years, a responsible economic policy has been pursued. Then I understand that the NHO competition survey is trying to make Norway's strong and weak sides visible as the country of localisation for investment. There is no doubt that this barometer provides useful information, but it is enough that one can discuss whether and to what extent all indicators used are equally appropriate, and at least one must interpret it with caution. Another barometer recently published is the World Bank barometer. It is based on other indicators and it shows that Norway is a good country to operate in. Here we are referred to the tenth best country in the world and no. 4 in Europe. Norway is ranked among others in front of countries such as Sweden, Finland, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Japan. The government is working too well, stable and predictable framework conditions. As promised in the Soria Moria Declaration, the overall level of taxation is at 2004 level. Among other things, we have reintroduced the system of differentiated employer charges. Such a scheme is an important instrument for business in the districts. The government also wants to strengthen and continue the Norwegian model. We want to continue the tripartite cooperation. We work for a good social security network that helps people through conversions, and we also facilitate the desired transformation into businesses. History has shown us that many Norwegian companies have been, and are, capable of changing. We're also working to get even simpler regulation, so that companies and those who work there can spend time on what they should spend on, producing and operating with value creation and innovation, and not filling out unnecessary forms. We are working to make the public services even better and easier to deal with, so we are now taking new steps to expand Altin, with which business is very pleased, and to increase access to international markets. The interpellant specifically addresses research, education, innovation and infrastructure. We want to strengthen the education system, and I think it works well in many areas. We're strengthening basic training. We set up a system to capture students' needs for education in reading, writing and billing, while improving the ability of schools to follow up the students and provide them with the help they need as early as possible. Strengthening basic skills in primary school also believes that we will be able to reduce the drop-out rate in high school. The government also introduces more practice in this respect, both in vocational and vocational training. We also follow up on the quality reform in higher education, and we emphasise the results of higher education and the relevance of education. We believe that good initial training is also essential for lifelong learning. That is why we are submitting a major report on competence in the spring. It shall look at how the education system can meet even more the future requirements of competence and lifelong learning. When Norway has now had good economic development over time, it is probably also due to the fact that we have been quite good at innovation. We have a significant research effort, especially when we correct that parts of our value creation also reflect the repositioning of petroleum wealth, and that we have a different nutritional structure than many countries around us. The government has put innovation high on the agenda, and before Christmas we're going to present our own big message about it. The aim is to facilitate increased, sustainable value creation in an economic, social and environmental sense. Here we have received a lot of good input from the social partners, companies and research communities. Some of the biggest challenge I think is to get even more small and medium-sized enterprises to think about innovation, and do it from a to. We have significantly increased public research and education efforts since we took over in 2005. For next year, we have increased the efforts of the industrial research community, which has been a desire of the business community. In fact, if we look at publicly funded research, Norway is on top of the Nordic region and in a fourth place in the OECD region. An important difference between the industrial policy of this government and that of the former is that we are setting even more rates of industries where Norway has an advantage and has good prospects for international success. I would particularly like to highlight the Government's travel and maritime strategies. There is also a significant commitment to innovation, as one will also see in our proposals for the state budget. In this way, we can help to, for example: the maritime industries in Norway can deliver even more environmentally friendly and innovative solutions for the future. Since we took over in 2005, we have also proposed an increase in travel spending of 145 pst. Travel life is an industry that has a high potential in Norway, in all parts of the country, and where we also have great opportunities to get more jobs throughout the year. I noticed that Norway is ranked as No in the NHO competitiveness barometer. 8 of 12 in the field of transport. We cut low on the quality assessment of the industry on roads and, in the case of motorway length, relative to road freight. On the other hand, we are very cutting in the quality of air transport and ports. I fully agree that transport is very important for business. It rightly underlines the need for increased transport investment, as this Government has chosen to do. Ever since we took over, we have proposed significantly increased investment in transport, and in next year's state budget, as the Stortinget is well known, it is such that we totally exceed the economic framework underlying the national transport plan. We're now working on a new national transport plan, and it's quite obvious that we're going to spend more money on transportation in the future, both because it's important for individuals, to avoid the many accidents that occur on some road sections, and because it's probably crucial for our business to go well. Our work has produced good results if we measure it in the number of jobs, and it is not immaterial. Since 2005, there have been 250 000 more persons employed. Of these, about 150 000 have come into the private sector, and the number of employees in industry has increased by 20 000 in the same period. The government is pursuing a policy that facilitates business and migration, innovation and value creation in Norway. And if we look at the value and welfare we have in this country, much indicates that what we do is right. So I'd like to have a debate, in addition to that, on what measures work, but in the case of Right's old recipe to lower taxes, there are many experts, especially in the last few days, who have said that it's not the recipe of the situation we're in, but here I find that we're in disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1540	I would like to thank the Council of State for a broad approach to the topic, and I think there is little doubt that there is a consensus on what is the long-term objective in relation to the issue of unemployment. Of course, you can discuss these indices as to how well the country does, between itself. On the NHO index, we came from the last of the twelve. I checked out the OECD index that the Council of State mentioned in its article. There comes Norway in the tenth place. If you look at relative changes here, you'll see that we've fallen from the ninth place, which we had last year, so this has gone in the wrong direction compared to 2008. That's the 2009 OECD measured. What's special, what's curious to say, is that the criterion that Norway's doing it very well in the OECD ranking is the condition for shutting down business. That was a curative example; I do not want to propose measures that make it more difficult to shut down businesses, because it has something to do with conversion policy. But Norway is ranked as country no. 3, while in the ranking of start-up activities — which may well be as important as the conditions for shutting down business — Norway is 33rd place, which is a very poor ranking. So I have to say that this rhetoric that Norway is so well rusted in these difficult times becomes a little special, because everyone knows that Norway has a fantastic situation with oil revenues, which both bring revenue to the state and generate billions of investments along the coast, just because we found oil. So I think it might be a very important explanation factor that the Council of State said about innovation. She was also concerned about the question of simplification. It is true that the government put forward a simplification action plan, after discovering that the form field costs business NOK 57 billion. The problem is that the action plan presented was perceived to be very negative by the business community. It had no ambitions in relation to long-term cut of form costs. It was not possible to measure the effect of the measures that were in the plan, and it seemed quite little visionary, to say so. So in terms of the simplification target, I think the government is showing too little ambition, and that might be justified by the fact that the Ministry of Industry and Trade does not have any influence on the important departments in terms of simplification issues. And then the Council of State is inside the selected industries. Travel has received a little more marketing support, but in the case of maritime business, which is now in a very difficult situation, it is quite strange to refer to 100 million. kr in innovation support, when the industry loses DKK 21 billion in equity, and when the way to book the Environment Fund is to lose DKK 7 billion to it as a result of a lack of efforts by the Government. So I believe that there is a lot that needs to be done significantly better to ensure Norwegian jobs for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1555	We may have a long discussion about which barometers we believe the most, but at least it is a fact that since 2005 there have been 250,000 more employed in Norway. At least it cannot be disputed, and there must be at least one explanation that there is quite a lot of good going on in Norway — at least it has done so, say if we are now in a slightly different situation. Then it is clear that when it comes to conversion, it is a bit wrong when the representative Hansen tries to produce it almost as if we were going to be to convert and bring it down as much as possible. That's probably not right. But what we're concerned about in-conversions – I believe that the Right is also concerned about – is that there must be proper arrangements when conversions are to take place, because it's clear that quite a lot of the business transitions are also necessary to keep up with the competition all the time. On the issue of simplification and the failure of the action plan presented by the Government, I would say that there is a very comprehensive action plan, how many measures have already been taken. The most important thing that we point to there, and we've done something about in a short time, is to make Altin better. We have proposed over 200 million in the government budget for next year, which the representative knows very well. kr more to extend that scheme even more in order to get more of the public services in there. When I meet the business community, they say very clearly that it's the most important tool for simplification. Then I am aware that there are a few–three other things that they also believe are very important. We're working on that, because it's very important that they spend the time on what they're supposed to do, and not to fill out forms that aren't necessary. That's why the government has also said that we're going to look at where we're next, and do a summary of how far we've come, because we have to go in the right direction. This means that in practice we need to achieve even more simplification. I fully agree with Mr Hansen. As far as the maritime industry is concerned, the debate that preceded this interpellation debate was about extending the framework to GIEK by DKK 10 billion, which will benefit this maritime industry to the most extent, and I am pleased that the Storting seems to join it. In addition to the government having put forward a maritime strategy that we are now following point-by-point, we have now also – and I am glad that the Stortinget has joined it – granted 100 million. kr. We also propose that for the next year, and I experience it so that the maritime industry is very concerned about it. In many areas, what happens in the maritime industry can make a difference. One of those areas is environmental technology. If we do manage to do even more in that area – and there we have close dialogue with the industry of the sea – what is happening in the entire shipping industry can really make a difference in relation to the environmental challenges. It's also interesting when we talk about innovation and business in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1568	When right-wing questions ask what the Government will do to secure the framework conditions for Norwegian business, we have many good actions to show, as the response to the Council of State now showed. But first of all, stable, sustainable and competitive framework conditions are important for business. The draft budget, which we now have to deal with here in Stortinget, is a responsible budget, while an expansive budget will stimulate increased activity, for example. construction industries. Even if we have been through a boom with the strongest growth period since the 1960s, with full employment and a record-breaking business, we are committed to economic development. We have focused on securing value creation to sustain well-being, and the work on innovation and transformation has been a high priority. Norway's first news of innovation is coming in a short time, after a long and good process. We have made special efforts in the maritime and marine sectors, travel, energy and the environment, and national strategies have been developed in close contact with industry. Over each state budget, this has been followed up by new tools and concrete promises, such as: for the maritime sector, where the industry has now been subject to a tax regime similar to that in Europe. This is something they have been asking for many years. Net pay is also very popular in the maritime industries. I just heard Torbjørn Hansen standing here on the pulpit and saying that he thought it was an important nourishment. Nevertheless, they want to cut the net pay arrangements in their alternative budget. It is very important for the business community that the Government has met the concerns we have in the international financial market in pursuing a robust and responsible policy, and, as the Council of State says, with a high level of preparedness to meet unexpected events. In its proposal for a State budget, the Court of Justice is taxing the most important measure. But it's not surprising and nothing new that we're not in line with fiscal policy. This is a policy of distribution. The grips of the Government have contributed to a fairer tax system that will benefit most people. It actually seemed to me that the Right should notice. Right says to lead a tight economic policy. Then I'm wondering how they're going to match the Advance Party, which is going to give taxes of NOK 29 billion and an increase in oil money of NOK 31 billion. Many people wonder about it, but I don't think we get a good answer today either. We're all concerned about giving business a good framework. As we have heard from the Council of State, for these three years the Government has carried out a number of important things in this way. And when Right View of NHO's Contest Barometer, I'll show to its World Bank, which shows that Norway is a good country to run business in. We come as the tenth best country of the 180 countries involved in the investigation, and the fourth best in Europe. I've noticed that economic experts are in doubt about right-wing taxes is the right recipe to meet the challenges we're facing right now. Business is also saying no. They have made clear that the Government’s actions are in line with their vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1587	Let me first arrest the representative, Gunvor Eldegard, who from the Parliamentary Chair claims that the government's government budget is adapted to the somewhat critical situation we are currently in. This does not mean correctness, because the budget was drawn up at a time when this crisis was not foreseen as it has now ceased. Let me also boast to the NHO to present the competition barometer every year. It's a very useful document for the Norwegian community to have. It is also important for us as a nutrition committee and politicians to be able to follow this development every year. It is then regrettable to note that Norway is now losing in the area by region compared to being an attractive country of business. If there is something Norway needs to be, like a small country, it is to be competitive with our main trading partners. It is also of crucial importance now, when we are in a very challenging time, a time of decline, where there are announced permits and redundancies in very many businesses. Nor will it take long before the number of bankruptcies is likely to increase dramatically. For this reason, Norway now needs to target itself to be on the pole as a good business country in the world. We should win the World Cup in business policy, and we all have opportunities to do so. We are a country with every opportunity to give business the best framework conditions. We have the opportunity to cut red tape and create a simple code. We have a back that allows us to give low taxes and taxes, and we can be at the top of the world in terms of transport, education, research and innovation. That's why it's a shame to see that we're losing terrain. Instead of being a country that is attractive and attractive to business, Norway has become a country where more and more enterprises and owners are discussing whether to leave Norway. I'm sorry. The interpellant had an interesting theme: in the 2005 election campaign and, to a large extent, in the previous period, the Workers' Party was on the barricades to pursue an active industrial policy. I fully agree with that. This is in agreement with the Progress Party. We need to pursue a much more active industrial policy. But the question is, Where has this active business policy become? What is the ‘Active Enterprise Policy’ of the Workers Party? Election struggle is one thing, but the government should also be judged by what it does. The result is, in my opinion, discouraging. The first is that the government lacks a clear and clear spokesman for business. We see that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has in many ways become a kind of ingathering heat for state councils – we have now had three different state councils there in three years. It is clear that there is no clear, clear spokesman on whom the business community can lean, a strong, clear spokesman who takes the other councils to heart and tells them that they need to think about the challenges of business in the design of policies in their fields. Then it is a fact that the Business Committee has received very few cases from the Government. The Council of State and the representative of Eldegard pointed out these action plans promoted by the Government. There are maritime action plans, within travel and within legislation. But one has in a way excluded Stortinget from the treatment of these important documents. There should have been a case for the Storting to get a clear and clear debate, and also a mandate from the Stortinget to try to get a united government and opposition behind the points that the Government stands for. It is regrettable that it has not been a wish from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1602	It is an important interpellation that is being treated in the United Kingdom today. It might be worth repeating what the interpellant really asks about: ‘What will the Government do to strengthen the framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises so that they can achieve growth, generate income to the community and secure jobs even in times of difficulty?’ That's a good question. I'm not sure the Council of State has fully understood the question. That was probably an excellent answer, but I feel that there was an answer to something other than what the interpellant asked for – because we are in a time gap. And definitely no one will ignore the fact that we have had a real wage growth in Norway that is comparable to the best over all times – and we can compare with any country – almost 17 pst. in the last five years. We've been sitting on a green branch for quite many years in Norway. But now we are in a time gap where Norwegian industry experiences falling demand for its goods and services both in the international and in the national markets. Then it is time to ask the Council of State the questions that need to be answered in a situation where the world is changing as it has done. Here I feel that the answers are missing. We've got some kind of an emergency stop. When the prices of crude oil that passed the 150 dollar barrel in July of this year have fallen to about a quarter. The $50 barrel, that is, a third, is in a situation where some plans for the expansion of fields in Norway are almost becoming unprofitable. We've seen that the stock exchange has a fall of 60 pst. – plus–minus margin of error – equity for investments has been wiped out in a few weeks, and unemployment is definitely going to be a problem in Norway as well. Although old statistics are good, it may not be the answer to what kind of challenges we are going to face in the future in Norway, because we have an open economy that requires us to be competitive – we, as much as other countries that are going to sell goods and services on the international market. I feel that the LO has actually come much further than today’s government – one goes out today and says that we have to take into account the competitive sector. We need to have a payroll profile this time so that we do not further weaken our competitiveness – a competitiveness that has been weakened, which the interpellant has been involved in, for every year today's government has been in power. We have seen that wage-fixing has taken a step that has not strengthened competitiveness. We've seen that the interest rate has run in the weather, unlike in the euro zone, with the exception of the last two steps back, more or less in some sort of panic to meet the reality that we're in. We have seen that the decline in competitiveness has been more systematic and has contributed to a negative development, at least a population development, in District Norway, where the pace of development cannot be followed. We see it in the field of energy, where we are absolutely and definitely best, and where we now demand an active policy from the Government, Stortinget – as the representative Asmyhr was about – does not even get things to deal with. The advertised energy message is not coming, the advertised petroleum message is not coming. Knowing that the world, and in particular Europe, has a strong need to meet its needs also from Norway, we do not know what policy the Government wants to pursue in this area in the future. We have a climate deal behind us as a demand for strong measures in the renewable sector, where we will have 30 TW of new renewable energy in place in Norway by 2016. But you don't get your finger out when it comes to launching a policy in this area. The best investors with the most knowledge we have in this area where Norway is a major player will rather invest abroad than in Norway, with the Norwegian state's own company at the head. It can't be like that. One says it doesn't help much to refer to the old right recipe. Well, I think if the Council of State takes the trouble to read the old right recipe, you'll see the tax trend between 2001 and 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1622	In this interview, the representative Hansen asks important questions. The Christian People's Party well to be constructive in this situation. We now need measures in the short and longer term. In the short term, it is crucial that the Government meets the financial crisis and the increasing signs of increased unemployment with an additional package of measures on the State budget. In its alternative state budget, the Christian People's Party proposes a package of measures of approximately NOK 5 billion. She should go to extra construction and maintenance of roads, railways, schools and churches. The package also includes 2 000 new sick homes, a postponement of the Government's proposals for increased taxes on wealth and industry's inheritance, an increase in depreciation rates for machines, speeds, trucks and agricultural buildings by more than 2 percentage points and a reduction in the employer's fee for apprentices by 25 pst. compared to the level of the day. In this way, we are counteracting increased unemployment, and we are getting to make the necessary investments and social tasks. This is absolutely necessary in the light of the ever-deteriorating economic forecasts for the next year that have come from the Statistical Central Bureau and Norway Bank in time after the government presented its government budget. Federal Leader of the Joint League, Arve Bakke, has the same sympathies as the Christian People's Party, when he says to the VG that there is a need for more action from the Government in addition to what is announced. But the government has so far rejected this. It is alarming that the Government itself does not see the need to adjust the budget when numbers have deteriorated so much. Is the Government on the part of ordinary workers saying no to additional measures above the State budget? Or is it one of the most prominent economists in the Ministry of Finance? I'm asking the question. In the longer term, we need a fundamental recognition that business needs to be built from below, and that policy-makers’ main role is to facilitate good and predictable framework conditions for value creation. In this way, businesses can provide safe jobs and surpluses for the distribution of important Community goods. The Christian People's Party wants a tax system that doesn't ruin entrepreneurship, innovation and growth in business. We need a well-functioning labour market that balances the flexibility of business and central rights for employees. It is necessary that competition operates in order to make good use of the resources of society and to avoid the accumulation of monopoly power in a few hands. Not least, we depend on having a knowledge-based school and the best possible higher education and research, to take care of our most important resource, human. The Christian People’s Party, therefore, in its alternative proposal for a State budget – in addition to the related package of measures – will increase the scope of the tax FUNN by 25 pst. and increase the Research Fund by DKK 25 billion to facilitate research and innovation in business. The business community will also focus on the submission of a gradual depreciation of the inheritance tax on generational changes in family businesses and equality between self-employed and workers, including in the case of maternity and care allowances. This is particularly important for many private businesses. But the most important thing now is to adopt additional measures over the state budget for road, rail, school and hospital places to counteract the unemployment that we see will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1643	I also want to stress that this is an important interpellation. It's an important topic that's being launched, not least in the situation we're up in, and the situation the world is up today. The dividing lines are used to describe the situation. There will be a quick fight about the understanding of reality, how good it really is in Norway today. Looking at some of the key indicators measuring growth, value creation, adaptability and investment, there can be no doubt that the situation and development over the last few years have gone very well and that it has gone in the right direction. Then why has it happened? Many point to oil and the enormous natural resources we have in Norway. That's of course part of the explanation. There can be no doubt about it. But I also want to point to the Nordic welfare model, the Norwegian welfare model, which is one of the main reasons, if not the main reason why we are there today. We have low conversion costs. I'd like to say to Torbjørn Hansen that I think that's why we score well in terms of why it was possible to shut down businesses in Norway, because public take a large part of the bill, bills that private business has to take in other parts of the world. It has provided flexibility, adaptability and an opportunity for innovation that is relatively unique and that, despite a high level of pay and tax, we have value creation, employment and a distribution of well-being that surpasses the vast majority of other economies in the world — including underlying growth. This model also provides a relatively good balance of economic goods. There is a lot of evidence that it contributes to bringing growth and stability, not least when looking at developments in those countries where the picture is completely different. We have good access to competence. Not least, the long tradition of the community and the state working with industry, together with the various industries, to achieve the desired result. We can do this as a debate on appropriations for the State budget. We can do this as a debate on different indicators and different rating agencies – to use such an expression. I don't think we should do that, but take advantage of the opportunity to address some of the overall issues, not least in the light of the fact that we are now in a new situation. There's other assumptions that lie at the moment, compared to what we've seen in the past. I believe that the State budget provides a good response and responds to the challenges facing Norway. We are increasing public spending in a way that creates demand in important markets, and the country is being built stone by stone. We are constantly taking increased responsibility for innovation and research. We are working on simplification, we are working evenly on road construction, with good public services, and we have not least presented a capital package that has made the flow of money again – hopefully – about getting started in banking and in the private sector. Political predictability was one of the things that the representative Hansen stressed in his statement. There I think it might be in place to bring in the Right Alternative State Budget – I can't basically humiliate myself – where this year, which last year is aged almost 2 billion kroner from the agricultural agreement. It is, as everyone knows, an agreement that has been negotiated. It has been treated in Stortinget, and Stortinget has joined it. In fact, the Right voted against, but to return to the State budget in order to take away this money that has already been allocated and on which economic operators are supposed to be there, must be anything but political predictability, and testify to anything but the will to be able to rely on the powers of government. Keynes is the major countercyclical policy player. Before I finish, I want to say that he brought this about using public resources in counter-cyclical policies in the 1930s. He's rehabilitated in many areas now. He also drew taxes as part of the classical counter-cyclical policy. At any rate, in the wider debate, the Central Party will also help to make it part of the thinking if new measures prove necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1663	First, I would like to thank the interpellant who has put on the agenda a very topical matter, as the situation has evolved. I also join those who have spoken here, who are suggesting that we should deal with a budget that has not fully taken over the changes that have occurred in the recent financial crisis. We believe that the estimates for growth in the economy, unemployment and other similar sizes appear to be very optimistic in the Government's proposals. Yesterday's Question Time, the State Council was confronted with the tax sniper coats that the government will apply to the companies. The opposition was told that tax austerity would not lead to a further deterioration in an already difficult situation and added that tax austerity would only hit 90–95 pst. by the enterprises. I think the government has to check the battery in its calculator. The proposed changes in the tax on wealth combined are an increase of over DKK 1.2 billion. It's not just 5 pst. by the companies paying the bill, when both the 80 pst rule is proposed to be abolished and a significant increase in the taxes on the wealth of commercial property is proposed. When increased rates in the taxes on wealth for all assets over NOK 470 000 are added, I cannot understand how the Council of State comes up with such figures. I would like the Council of State to elaborate on this. We can discuss indicators and what is right and what is wrong, but an important indicator is that we record that in the last three years we have fewer entrepreneurs, and in the last quarter, third quarter of this year, we have an increase of 43 pst. in the number of bankruptcies compared to the third quarter of last year. I think it speaks its own language, and it also suggests that now is the time for it to be invested. I believe that the Left's alternative budget is the right medicine at the right time, with a significant relief for the businesses in the situation we're up against. We need a targeted commitment to the future, to the innovative environment-friendly and climate-friendly business. In order to create and secure jobs, targeted efforts are important to ensure undergrowth of unborn businesses and the development of more and better knowledge-based enterprises. For this reason, the Left considers that public sector instruments need to be more incentivised to change, because business depends on innovation and innovation in order to be competitive. Of course, all research and especially nutrition research comes in here. It is important to unleash creativity and creativity, and then it must be directed at entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. There must be less regulation and regulation. Entrepreneurship in secondary education needs to be stepped up and cooperation between business and school needs to be strengthened. Research shows that 20 pst. of those who have joined a youth enterprise, start their own activities later. It is therefore important to ensure risk capital through the public instrument and through tax incentives for private investors. The main problem today is that the Government does not take any important steps to demonstrate the willingness to make the necessary changes in order to secure jobs, businesses and homes in the future. The transformation of the tax system from red to green taxes seems completely absent, and there is little focus, in the Left's view, on targeted efforts on innovation, innovation and the environment-friendly business. That is what will ensure the welfare of the future. I wonder if the government will continue its targeted attack on Norwegian company owners. The government's tightening of the tax screw against those who want to invest in and own Norwegian businesses is completely wrong in today's situation with concerns about stock exchanges and financial crisis. It is obvious that the Government wants to reduce private ownership in Norwegian business. Instead of several stones in the back pocket of the companies, they need encouragement and a pat on the shoulder.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1680	The 2008 NHO Competition Survey shows that Norway has lost ground with our main trading partners since 2005. It's adjacent to asking why it's like this. Is it such that it results from outside circumstances, or is it a result of the policy pursued by the Government? It may be tempting to look at some of the areas where competitiveness has been measured. Let's look at the transport sector. Here we see a government that measures success from the number of dollars used, and not from the results. The fact that the government boasts that they grant more money than previous governments is understandable as long as the fact that the results are missing is not affected. But that's really just boasting, because with over DKK 185 billion more in tax revenue in 2009 than the Right/Centre government had in 2005, it would just be missing that it was not granted any more. A more interesting goal is how much government has prioritised the transport sector in the good years that we now have behind us. What about education and competence? Well, here we see that the councils of the Socialist Left have been reluctantly drawn in a direction that I proudly call the Right School, that is, that we have to focus on learning and content. The Norwegian school is good, but still facing significant challenges. About 20 pst. students leave primary school without being able to read and write properly. That doesn't give us any reason to claim that we have a school that provides opportunities for everyone. Too many Norwegian students have the experience that the red-green years have not given any positive development in school life. In the field of research and innovation, too, the Government has delivered. We are all familiar with the famous ‘sleep cut’. Under the red-green government, the allocations to universities and colleges have been dramatically reduced. I'm glad that the Right has shown, and shows, a clear prioritisation of knowledge and research in its alternative budget. We believe that it is a sin of failure that we have not been able to take advantage of the good years we have had, to invest in research and education. It seems that the government has lost the ambition of 3 pst. of GDP for research, cf. the targets set in St.meld. No 20 for 2004–2005, Will for Research. Investing in research and innovation is about will. That is what I think is missing. In the case of red tape and simplification, then Minister of Economic Affairs Børge Brende launched an action plan, ‘A simpler Norway’. Clear targets were set for reducing the costs incurred by enterprises. We have now been surveyed for costs – SEK 57 billion a year – but I cannot see that the Government maintains a reduction target. In terms of taxes and taxes, we have seen an active government. Unfortunately, the government's focus has not been to facilitate the framework conditions for business rather than to pursue symbol policies. The government has not hidden the fact that its main goal is to skin the rich. Unfortunately, it is true that the NHO President points out in an article today, that the Government, in its eagerness to take the 100 richest, also draws 350 000–360 000 other business owners. For most, it is quite clear that the level of taxation and the level of taxation with which enterprises must live have a significant impact on the framework conditions and competition with the rest of the world. The British Prime Minister is taking to prevent a global recession in global tax cuts. A situation with a fear of global decline could lead the G20 to concentrate on fiscal policy and tax reduction. It must be allowed to ask whether, in order to improve competitiveness, the Minister of Industry is also willing to look at fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1699	I want to thank you for the interpellation. It is important that industrial policies are discussed in a stronger vocabulary. The background for the interpellant is the financial crisis and the downturn. I fully agree that this will be a more important debate in the future. Interpellation is an attempt at reorientation, and I don't think it's very constructive that the interpellant comes up with characteristics such as today's policy is 'encouragement propaganda', undermining private property rights, and it's a cohesion policy where no one gets better. It's a weak analysis, and had this been on the shooting range, the shot had at least gone on the neighboring record. We in the Center Party don't know each other. It's a historical real wage growth we've been through, and it's been a huge growth in private consumption. I can't see that there's any constructive input into getting a long-term responsible policy. That is simply one too cheap analysis. A good business policy is the interaction between private initiative and public organisation; it's education; it's sick pay; it's communication. It costs money. The line of the centre party is a social contract between private and public, property and property obligations, taxes by ability and the old honors statement: Do your duty, demand your right. Right-wing rates strongly on getting away with property taxes. They do not tell us what the sister parties around Europe have as an alternative to property taxes: property taxes, the form of tax that is most independent of ability. During this ageing period, the right has focused on getting more gas in private consumption, through tax relief and a low-interest policy where one would sometimes think it would pay off borrowing money. So the lot has very little to distinguish with. The value-conservative production-Right, front of people with long work experience, is hardly seen in the public vocabulary. Today, there is the new Right, represented by the representative Hansen, who swears to the theory of business neutrality and so-called growth-creating tax havens of those who have the greatest tax ability, who have the reason. Back to the interpellation. NHO Director Brubakk says: "We haven't spent the good times, the fat years, preparing for the bad." Essentially, I agree with that statement. I agree with that statement from an international and historical perspective. But there we have a common political responsibility, and I have to say that the NHO is not or has been a spearhead of a targeted industrial policy based on, for example, our comparative economic advantage, where the real economy was the point and the financial sector should be settled and not the construction itself. What must be central is to ask the question: What do we want with Norway? What kind of business policy do we want in the future? In the view of the Centre Party, there must be production jobs with long value chains and the processing of huge natural resources – i.e. developing our so-called comparative advantage – that must be at the centre. Energy will then become a key node – gas processing, for example, in North Norway and gas landings instead of pipelines, so that we can ensure the development of factories on land, and can produce the many, many products based on gas that we have great opportunities for. Furthermore, there are wind turbines and construction of chemical plants based on timber, so that we can obtain biofuels as one of the products, other chemical products such as other products or new renewable energy technologies, as we now see in Kongsberg, through Kongsberg Innovation, which initiates a lot of work related to geothermal technology. All of these are good examples of a conscious and targeted industrial policy. But it requires a mixed economy where you have a combination of private initiative and an active state. It's a system that's totally superior. Therefore, research, development, education, funding, ownership, communication and tax are needed according to ability. Put this together so that you get the funding from the public, which then supports the private initiative. That's the big challenge. We are looking forward to the further debate, but then one must not have such a cheap entrance that one characterises today's policy in a way that is far from the record.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1726	I would like to remind you, following Mr Lundtigen's statement, that industrial policy is often characterised by the fact that the instruments are located in departments other than the Minister of Industry's own department. For this reason, business debates are often marked by advocacy, where the substance may be difficult to detect. A characteristic of Norwegian higher education policy in the last 20 years is that there has been a dramatic increase in the number of higher education students. Another characteristic is that there are relatively few of those who have completed higher education who have found their job in the private sector — and far fewer who have found it in the export-oriented sector. In this way, it can be claimed that Norwegian higher education policies have been less effective and less successful if the aim was to seek increased value creation. On the other hand, if education policy is to achieve as much higher education as possible, education policy in many ways becomes part of welfare policy. That is not the primary purpose of education policy. I noticed the Minister's analysis, where the Minister, among other things, said that the focus on education is on good business policy. And then my question to the Minister is: What measures, what thoughts does the Minister have in terms of stimulating and targeting education so that we get more people who do higher education — which is actually in demand — who have the skills demanded in the private sector, and especially in the export-oriented industry? It is the exports that survive in this country, and not the imports.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1735	I would like to start by thanking everyone who has taken part in this debate. There seems to be a broad commitment to securing jobs. On the other hand, there is quite a disagreement about the strategy to be adopted to achieve that particular goal. And unfortunately, it seems that the government parties' attitude to the company's framework conditions has not been specifically changed by the fact that there are now thousands of people who are likely to be laid off in the near future. The representative of Eldegard mentioned, for example: distribution policy as important. My point was that the distribution policy can hit equity and the jobs of businesses quite hard. And it's a paradox when the representative Eldegard boasts of the action plan for the maritime industries, which contains 100 million. kr to innovation measures, but at the same time taking out DKK 21 billion of equity in the maritime cluster. It's a stranglehold that's going to cost people in Norway the job. The government continues to believe that it is right to attack corporate owners, by draining the equity of the companies they own. Let me do an example. The NHO President, who pays more in taxes than he has in income, has a sister who pays more than twice as much in taxes as she has in income. They will be able to pay that tax, but the money will pass through the withdrawal of equity in the company in which they work, and this is a policy that does not affect the 100 richest in Norway, but it affects 359 900 owners in Norwegian companies, who will take out equity to pay taxes on wealth, thus weakening the security of jobs for those they employ in times of decline. Then I agree with Ola Borten Moe that it is nice that it is cheap to convert to Norway. But it's a paradox that we're in 33rd place in the OECD ranking regarding conditions for creating new jobs. We went down in 2008 from the 26th place, which was also not very impressive, to the 33rd place. So it might be an idea if the government gets a little bit more concerned with how to establish new jobs, instead of that it's going to be cheap to put down the ones that are already there. So Borten Moe commented on agricultural transfers. Let me say so that I think Norwegian agricultural policy could be far more competitive if one also looked at reforms that could improve the competitiveness and investment opportunities of the farmers. Otherwise Lundtigen agreed with the NHO, but thought it was regrettable that there was such a negative input to this from the interpellant. Then I just have to take up the fact that the NHO also points out, that the previous government used 90 pst. of the space for action provided by oil revenues for growth promotion. This government has given priority to a different course. You have chosen to use only 15 pst. of the money on growth promotion, and the problem with this short-term perspective is that the safety of Norwegian jobs will be affected by the next year. The impact of a low priority for industrial policy will then be seen. Then it will be about the workplaces. I really hope that the government will turn that course as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1750	I think there has been an interesting debate on an important topic. It is also interesting to note that the right continues the rhetoric they have now had in many debates, at the latest in the spontaneous question hour yesterday: when we answer from the government parties, we get the answer that we have failed to answer, or that we do not answer the question. The thing is that the Right – and, to a large extent, the Advance Party – stands for something completely different from what the government parties stand for. And I think the medicine that Right now presents, that they're going to reverse the prescription block and once again serve tax relief, is pretty interesting. There are many prominent experts who have said that it is not the medicine that works in the situation we are in. In addition, it comes as, among other things. The representative, Mr Moe, said, cut agricultural cuts, cut daily payments, increased waiting time for those who are unemployed, and, as far as I know, also cut regional subsidies. Nor is there any contribution to making the situation easier for those who are now in the process of becoming unemployed, or who are in the process of becoming unemployed, or to supporting them in industries in the district of Norway. Then there are claims that we do not have an active industrial policy. Unlike the previous government, we have prioritised the industries that we believe have taken advantage of in Norway. We have done so by creating strategies in key areas, following up in budgets, and we have allocated significantly more money for research and innovation. And in a few weeks' time, the first big news of innovation in Norway's history comes, which I think is very important in the time we're in now – that all companies are changing and working a lot with innovation to be budd that competition can also increase. Another concrete example is that this government has arranged for Norwegian industry to become a world leader in key environmental technologies, for example: CO2 capture. This government also pursues a very active ownership policy within the framework we are going to pursue ownership policies. Among other things, as we know through Aker Holding, we have secured an important company, and we have ensured that important competences remain in Norway. I know that at least the Right disagrees with that, but this is what we get because there is a close dialogue between the authorities and the companies and the social partners. It's a huge advantage for Norwegian business, even in the situation we're in now, and at the time we're likely to meet. So it's also that in the case of transportation, we have increased the appropriations considerably. The same applies to research and innovation. As far as education is concerned, as the representative of the Rivers was at the heart of it, it's clear that we have to bet here. We also need to strengthen cooperation between the various educational institutions and the business community. There is a lot of work to be done by the Government, including: in the case of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1768	Case No. So 7 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1774	The size now goes to voting. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e1784	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 State budget amends as follows: The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 200000000.The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 200000000. Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e2247	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e2271	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-13.ana.ud2195e2386	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
