ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e22	The representative, Odd Einar Dørum, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e25	I have the pleasure, on behalf of the representative Lars Sponheim and myself, to make proposals to raise the ceiling on the amount of the head office's management of the funds of unauthorised persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e30	The representative, Mr S. Woldseth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e33	I am pleased, on behalf of the representatives of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Kåre Fostervold and myself, to propose a non-legislative treatment of children in private and public kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e38	The representative of Per-Kristian Foss will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e41	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Olemic Thommess and myself, I am delighted to make proposals to re-examine the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, the Consumer Ombudsman and the Children's Ombudsman to bodies during the Stortinget. President: The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e70	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Åslaug Haga State Council Erik Solheim State Council Knut Storberget The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e89	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Last week I perceived the Minister of Justice as unusually high and dark when he presented the Government's new initiative to strengthen the possibilities for victims of criminal acts. Many of the things that were presented greatly appreciated the Advance Party, and they were absolutely required. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that we still have major challenges. This week we've seen two examples of that. TVNORGE has run a case about a traffic-damaged girl from Bergen who was hit by a prom drive. Afterwards she was awarded a replacement, but since the perpetrator is not medicated, she does not get access to it, and the replacement appears only as a number on a piece of paper. Another -- maybe as grotesque, if not more grotesque -- example we've seen from Buskerud. One girl, who was 13 years old, was raped, has subsequently been awarded compensation for late injuries of 1 million. kr. The same thing is true here: the businessman is not medicated. So she is aware of the compensation that she herself has to fight to try to get paid. We believe that in the Progress Party this is totally unheard of. The state has a clear responsibility to take care of the criminals - to facilitate them, the content of the compensation, etc. How we - and the Council of State - can then defend that we have a system in which victims in many cases become double victims is completely incomprehensible to us. In view of this, the Progress Party has proposed and asked for an investigation into a system whereby those who are awarded compensation as a result of a criminal offence and who are not covered by the compensation for violence are also to be paid their compensation via the State and that the State then applies a right of recourse. We believe that this is actually going to be a much better arrangement than what you have today. Then my specific question becomes to the Council of State: What is the reason why the Minister of Justice and the Government have such strong objections to looking at a system of advance protection, thus helping to strengthen the position of more victims?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e108	I am, at first, happy to be called high and dark. It's not that often. With regard to our efforts in relation to the offended, I fully agree with the representative Ellingen, and also with the Progress Party, that there were important decisions by the Stortinge last week. It was a system shift in the sense that we are now going to have clear rules on how to deal with insults in the criminal justice area, and that will help - that is the ambition of the Government - that more insulted people report not only to the police but also to the children's houses we create, and also to civil society when they have been subjected to criminal action. I am pleased that the Progress Party also supported the main features of these proposals. I think it's incredibly important. As regards the question of compensation, there is already a system for those who are subjected to violence and abuse: the system of compensation for victims of violence. I believe - and the Government also stands for it - that it is certainly important that we strengthen the system of compensation for victims of violence. This is the background for, for example, over the last few years. have raised the ceiling on how much compensation can be paid. That is also the background for extending the scope, which is now done, and which is embedded in the budget of the year, including the following: children shall be more likely to receive compensation for the victims of violence. That is also why those who are subjected to violence and abuse at home, in particular women and children, are more likely to be in a position to be replaced. I believe that it is precisely the victim compensation system that needs to take care of the economic needs and meet the needs of victims, and then it is the system that we should do better, as we did last week. But I also believe that we have work to do, and that is why I have said that we should come back to Stortinget when it comes to assessing, among other things. the roof and the question of compensation payments where there are several abuses, and where there are several victims.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e117	Of course, I thank the Council of State for the answer. To what extent he is tall and dark, we can follow. The point of the problem is that although we have a good system of compensation for victims of violence - which can clearly be better - we have people who fall outside and who clearly feel like double victims. The perpetrator is convicted and punished, they are awarded compensation, and then they are not paid because the system is not such that they can access the funds they are actually given. Then I think a lot of people feel like a double victim. They have confidence that the government will settle with the perpetrator. They have confidence that the State will clean up and assist them, etc. When that doesn't happen, they hit twice. So I welcome the invitation of the Council of State to take a closer look at the Victim Compensation Act and the arrangements we have. The most important thing is to make sure that those who are victims of crime actually avoid becoming double victims, but that they achieve being protected and that they get their rights strengthened. So I hope that the Council of State can confirm that the two examples I referred to in my first question will be taken into account and assessed as a starting point, as examples of the new system - and a better system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e126	We're going through several cases, especially those cases that are now reaching the maximum for victims of violence. There are some thirty things that you have a review on, and I will also take along the issues that the representative asks about. At the same time, it must be a pleasure that we are actually using the victim compensation system and the discussion we have had around it to extend the scope. Young children who are witnesses to abuse at home now have an opportunity to seek compensation for the victims of violence. This is an example of the fact that we are making extensions to particularly vulnerable groups. Then there's reason to point out that even here, the heads that come from the public -- and some from the private as well -- won't be alpha and omega in terms of rehabilitation. We don't just solve these problems by replacing them. We don't want a society to praise that kind of assault just in dollars and dollars. That is why we also need to be aware of other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e135	It's going to be follow-up questions -- first Solveig Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e138	We have heard here that the Minister of Justice has spoken warmly about the extension of the system of compensation for victims of violence as the solution. But we have also been given more examples of this not being done well enough - examples of young girls being raped not getting the compensation they are going to have, because the culprit does not have the money. Does the Council of State feel that these young girls who are exposed to this criminal act are being cared for well enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e143	The impatience of government in meeting victims of rape, and in particular violence in what is often called close relations, shows that here we are not satisfied with the situation, neither criminal law nor the economic and health follow-up of these victims. That is the background to the action plan we put forward before Christmas called the turning point, which involves 50 specific points, and which I believe is actually important in order to raise the status of these victims. It is precisely the system of compensation for victims of violence that is intended to meet the victim for economic reasons. The ceiling has expanded significantly - up to 1.3 million. kr - and we also see that there has been a much higher level of compensation measurement than in the past, which actually benefits the victims pointed out by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e151	Elisabeth Aspaker - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e154	It is correct that the Stortinget last week put new, important things in place in relation to being offended and left behind in Norwegian law. But it is unfortunately also a fact that many victims of crime have to wait a very long time for their compensation. They may not get it at all, because the offender is unable to settle. It is a difficult issue, and consideration for the victims suggests that consideration should be given to the possibility of avoiding long-term compensation. There is a difference between being subjected to an intrusion on the car and being subjected to rape or other serious damage to the body. So my question to the Council of State is whether he will consider taking a closer look at the possibility of delimiting civil claims on the part of the state for the most serious crimes that have led to great harm to life and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e161	After all, the State is already making a payment, and in many ways it is making an advance, in relation to the civil claim, by establishing the system for the compensation of victims of violence. I do not believe in a general scheme in which the state is almost a guarantor of all claims. I understand that neither will the Right want to move in when you talk about delimitation. It is Governmentan view that there is a very good system of compensation for the victims. And that's what I said in my previous answer, that's why we're just using the victim compensation system when we now choose to extend the compensation payments from the public to those who need it the most. There are those groups that are weakest, whether they are children who are subjected to violence, or women who are subjected to domestic violence, gross rapes, or minor rapes, out in public or private space. I also think that there's a right way to do it -- rationally and well. We also know that the system of compensation for victims of violence is well practised in Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e168	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e171	I have a question to Haga, the Council of State. It is not unknown to anyone in this room that the red-green parties have a burning desire for more and more political governance of the company StatoilHydro. The latter has been seen in this turn through the clear announcement by the Council of State that she intends to hold four so-called owner’s meetings with the company – no more and no less. And when we see the red-green thread taken over from government responsibility, from the attempt to appoint new director in Hydro, how Eivind Reiten's fate was sealed, how we've seen the rise further, how a group manager was publicly taken in school by representatives of the Government, we see how one almost has a wish and expects StatoilHydro in many ways through its future activity to pursue a sort of red-green policy. But aren't you now complete in a grey zone, where the executive, where the concessionary, the authority that issues blocks on the base of a dominant company - Nordic's largest company - are now actually in a situation where in a closed forum in the department you exchange control signals with owner signals? Are you not afraid that information and inside information can now slip into each other? Are you not afraid that exchange rules and laws will be broken? Are you not afraid that you will receive different treatment from owners in the company? How in the name of the world does this harmonize with the principle of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e180	In St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, An active and long-term ownership, is described in detail how the relationship between the country as owner and state-owned companies is to be organised. All meetings that I want with StatoilHydro will, of course, be in line with the provisions of the Public Share Act and with the principles of good business management. Then it's advisable for the company's board and management to include in its further decisions the recordings and views that come out of it. All decisions of an ownership nature shall be taken by sea at the general meeting and shall be made by shareholder democracy in an ordinary manner. For several years, the Ministry of Oil and Energy has had regular meetings with Statoil, now StatoilHydro, at the office level. There have normally been four of these meetings. It's the same practice that I want to follow. The only change is that political leadership will participate more in these meetings than has been the case in the past. This does not imply any modification of the systems and procedures in this field. The ministry of a department is, as is known at any time, subject to the decisions of the Council of State. So there's no fundamental difference between the meetings we've had with the company in the past and the meetings that we're going to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e189	Here the Council of State confirms that it wishes to continue a line in which the informal structures on the outside of the formal structures provided for in the Shares Act will in many ways now provide the future governance signals. One thing is that this is a political soup of a grey zone. The second is that I think this also contributes to putting the Nordic sovereign largest company in a difficult -- not to say impossible -- situation. So we're talking about closed forums here. The council points back to St.meld in its reply. No 13th@item: So let's say we have points 1, 2 and 3, and I'm assuming that they're not randomly numbered. ‘1. Actionaries shall be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. 2nd@item: inlistbox It shall be transparent in relation to the ownership of the companies by the State. 3rd@item: inlistbox Ownership decisions and decisions shall be taken at the general meeting.» It has its own policies in all these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e202	In no way - then the representative heard poorly according to what I said. And at the same time, I can point out what Helge Lund has said, that StatoilHydro is conducting regular meetings with a number of shareholders, including the State of the Oil and Energy Department. There are systems and procedures on this side of StatoilHydros, they follow the same procedures and procedures to the State of the Ministry of Oil and Energy as they do to other major shareholders. Meetings are handled within the framework of company and securities laws, and the same information is provided to all shareholders.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e207	There will be follow-up questions - first Per-Christian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e210	It is not a very small change in the nature of these meetings that political leadership, even from several departments, participates in the meetings. With all due respect for the Council of State, I do not consider her to be an extension of the office, but as something else, to say so. And if these meetings are in line with the ownership principles of St.meld. No 13, I take it for granted that the minutes of the meetings will be available and public. Question 2: What is it that, in addition to the Letter of Ownership, which is issued once a year with guidance signals to Statoil - it is generally accepted and accepted in Stortinget, of course, and openly - sees the need to conclude four secret meetings in order to communicate with the company? How, then, can other owners be sure that this owner - that is, the largest, the state - does not receive information other than other owners, minority shareholders?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e215	There's nothing new in the way we handle StatoilHydro. This is also confirmed by Helge Lund. Helge Lund states that they meet the State at the Ministry of Oil and Energy in the same way as they meet a number of shareholders, and they meet with these shareholders in the context of the quarterly overviews. They want that with the state that owns it in the future. There's nothing new in this, there's nothing to suggest that other shareholders should somehow feel threatened. Here you talk to a professional owner, from our side, and you talk about a professional company. So it's quite natural that we have meetings with StatoilHydro to be informed about different questions. [[The President announces the next speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e223	Lars Sponheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e226	There is a fine balance that the Council of State has taken, and it is not an unimportant step that the meetings of information meetings with the owner and the government representative of a large owner are extended to include political leadership in these meetings. For the state has invited others to attend and own StatoilHydro. The market place for those shares is the stock exchange, and then it is crucial for the value and trust of StatoilHydro that no owner is or is given information. It's absolutely crucial. And when the Council of State itself enters these meetings, there is a danger -- one may suspect -- that common red-green eggshells are brought into them. Then transparency, what the content of these conversations is, is absolutely vital for this to go on. Can the Council of States promise us that there will be transparency about what is happening in these meetings?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e231	It is quite obvious, as the representative Sponheim says, that no shareholder should be assigned. It is the basis of all our treatment of StatoilHydro. It was just supposed to be missing. I have received a question, a letter from the representative of Korsberg from the Progress Party - i.e. I have not received it, however, he has announced in today's business that he will send a letter to see the minutes of such meetings. I have not received the letter that has been notified during the business life of the day, but I will reply to it when I receive it. It is not common for reports to be given from meetings between the shareholder and the company, even for the state, but I will come back to this and answer this wisely. Is there something I've put into all my work as Minister of Oil and Energy, it's just to increase transparency? [[The President announces the next speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e238	Bente Thorsen - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e241	The oil and energy minister, on behalf of the state as a partner, has announced that she will have four briefings with StatoilHydro. I have to say that I see it much more as an impact meeting with StatoilHydro. Information is always important and sensible for all owners, whether large or small. Now the state is not at all an exclusive shareholder in StatoilHydro. What about the other owners? Should they feel inferior to the state? How will that be perceived from their point of view? Would it not be much more business-oriented for all shareholders to have access to the same information at the general meeting of the company? And a tip: Perhaps more frequent general meetings could be about non-discrimination with regard to information to all shareholders?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e246	For this State Council, equal treatment of shareholders is an obvious issue. For this State Council, it is perfectly obvious that all shareholders should have access to information in parallel. That's the way it is. This is definitely how it should continue to be. StatoilHydro conducts meetings with the state that owns the same line as other major shareholders. In addition, it is quite natural that the state has meetings with StatoilHydro when special things occur, such as: the situation on Snow White. I don't think the Stortinget would be satisfied if the Council of State hadn't got into the conditions of the huge investments in Snow White, where you're now in a situation that you're struggling with. The facility is facing challenges, and if the Council of State were not to be informed about that kind of thing, I think the Storting would have asked big questions. [[The President announces the next speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e253	The President will remind the Council of State that we have a whole new arrangement. You get interrupted when the time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e256	President, I'll see to it that I can live by.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e261	Ingredient S. Sørfonn - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e264	I am a little busy with what is happening in the contact between the state and StatoilHydro. The state ownership of StatoilHydro provides both opportunities and challenges. One of the challenges is when investment is seen as an environmentally harmful project, while the Government wants to be environmentally friendly and support sustainable development. StatoilHydro has purchased licenses in the sea outside Alaska. From the past we know that one has invested in a tar sand project in Canada. At the Sandefjord Conference, one of the business leaders who had decided to invest in tar sands in the 1970s said that there is money we shouldn't spend. What does the red-green government mean? Is there any money the Norwegian state shouldn't spend through its state ownership? And is the council comfortable with the investments that StatoilHydro now makes in tar sands in Canada?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e271	This was not really a follow-up to the main question, but the Council of State will have to assess whether she will answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e275	I'd like to follow up this -- within the time frame. This just illustrates that there is something different in this room about how ownership of the state is to be exercised. As I understand this representative, it is believed that the state will intervene in concrete projects, such as the question of whether StatoilHydro is going to go into oil sand in Canada, or whether to go into blocks in the ocean outside Alaska. In line with good owner management, the State will not intervene in individual decisions taken by the company. This would be contrary to the guidelines available for state ownership. So it's up to the company to take the kind of commercial decisions that the representative mentions in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e282	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e285	I heard with some surprise that the Council of State refused to answer the representative Sponheim's questions about openness around the meetings between the Council of State and StatoilHydro, on the grounds that she would first respond to a letter she has not yet received. With all due respect for the care of the Central Party for the Post Office: Would it not be easier both for the Council of State and for the Stortinget if she responded here and now? That is, after all, the Stortinget Council is going to deal with it, not the Post Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e290	I will deal with Stortinget when it is correct, and with the Post Office when it is correct. I have been informed that there will be a written question. I'm supposed to answer that perfectly. I can only repeat what I said to the representative Sponheim, that it is not common for a record to be given of meetings between the shareholder and the company, nor for the state. Contact meetings between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and StatoilHydro will be concluded within the framework of the policies and rules governing the relationship between owner and company. I am concerned with transparency, and I have therefore stated my intention of informing the public about the topic that has been discussed in such contact meetings. It is a matter of course something other than publishing minutes from the meetings. I'll get back to that. I am concerned about transparency, but I am also concerned about following the rules of the game that have existed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e299	We'll see if we have to go to Rimi to get the letter of reply! Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e304	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Not long ago, the Minister of Justice received a sample report dealing with the situation of victims of rape. If I am not mistaken, it is a matter that the Minister of Justice is also very concerned about - at least he himself said, when the committee gave its position, that we must give better help to the victims. Then the situation is that a well-functioning action on rape victims is at risk of being abandoned in this city. Perhaps most of the victims of rape in the country are receiving the reception of the doctor's office in Oslo. They have a good offer. Over 30 pst. the rapes are rapes. The guard is now in danger of being killed. This means that all the victims of the rape, those who have been subjected to the most serious abuses, will no longer be able to be treated by the medical officer, but will have to be gunned around to the various hospitals they belong to. The committee's report is entitled «From word to action». What is about to happen with regard to the policy against victims of rape is that it goes from word to negative action. My question is: Will the Minister of Justice and the Government ensure that the very important action of the Harmguard in Oslo for victims of rape is not dropped, but maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e315	When we talk about rape, I first want to say that even there, most crimes happen at home. So we're talking about 16 000 written rapes in Norway in a year. It means that we need to expand reception in the country, and in Oslo, in order to ensure follow-up for those affected by such a serious crime. It has not been given to me or my department to deal with the issue of the rape recipients in Oslo, but at least I will promise the representative of the Syversen that we will do what we can to ensure that those who are raped in Oslo will have the offer that is now being developed on a national basis, namely the reception of rape. We are now in the process of getting rape receptions across the whole country, and it would be paradoxical if we were to put ourselves in a situation in Oslo where we did not have such an offer. I would also like to say that, in connection with the work of the rape committee, it has also been decided to extend the aid lawyer system, so that an aid lawyer is now available before the notification is submitted. We have also chosen to focus on resolving several of these issues. Under 1 pst. Of the girls who have been raped, it is felt that there is at all an explanation of their case - not necessarily because the police are doing a bad job. However, the DNA reform we are putting into action now is absolutely necessary to get the percentage of information. The teams that we set up in the police districts are absolutely necessary, and we are expanding the family violence coordinators, so that it becomes a whole position. In this context, it is also important that we put in place the civilian part, namely the rape recipients, because they are important evidence insurers. That is why I am going to do what I can to help, and I am convinced that my colleague in the Ministry of Health will also help to ensure that the victims of rape in Oslo also receive a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e324	The question does not concern the actual recipient of the rape. I'm sure it'll last. The point is that the government's one hand obviously doesn't know what the government's second hand is doing. The Minister for Health, who is responsible in total terms, has resigned from the responsibility in this matter. So my hope is linked to what the Minister of Justice himself said three weeks ago, that one of the most important things you can do is to make sure that the victims are received in a better way. We know that the people we're talking about, who are going to be affected by this closure, are the ones who have been subjected to the most serious assaults, that is assaults. In the case of this offer, which is well-functioning, but is at risk of closure, my call, not least on behalf of those affected by it, is that the Government takes an overall approach to this group. Will the Minister of Justice take care of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e329	As I said in my first answer, it's just that we're doing a joint operation right now, not only for Oslo's part, but also for the whole country as a whole, so that you make sure that at least you have rape receptions in place. They're important as evidence insurers, and important to meet the girls and boys who are being raped. Now I understand that the matter referred to by the representative Syversen is in the process, and is actually also under a department other than mine, but I can promise that we will have a full focus on the fact that even those who are being raped in Oslo will have the same and good offer that is now in the process of expanding elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e336	There will be follow-up questions - first May-Helen Molvær Grimstad. The President would say that this is in a cross-border country against the responsibility of the Minister of Health as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e341	There are not many days since the NOU ‘From Word to Action — Combating Rape Requires Action’ was presented. A number of measures have been mentioned to prevent this from happening, and how to ensure that those who are exposed to it receive help. As the first point in the selection, the government has said its mandate: ‘The Committee shall investigate measures to ensure better follow-up of persons who are subject to rape.’;» Here the Government has initially shown an ability to think in a wide way. But then it's so typical that when one comes to concrete action, it becomes 'no, this isn't my table, this is another state council's table'. You don't see the totality of what's happening. What will the Council of State do to ensure that there are no more such cases in which a clear view is that a good aid measure can disappear because one in the Government is not talking about important measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e354	Yes, here were many assumptions in the question that are not correct. It is precisely the measures that have now been taken, which are the result of the choice of interaction with, among other things. the victims of the rape. It is not so often that I receive reports from public authorities that are reduced by the Government, and with mandates made by the Government, where at reception we can actually say that many of the points outlined in the report of the sample are in the process of delivery. The development of receptions of rape, which are ambitious in the course of 2008, is a central point of this investigation, as are the acquisition of their own teams in the police districts. There are eleven police districts that these days are in the process of setting up their own police teams to better investigate these kinds of issues. The fact that we have put in place an aid lawyer for those at risk of rape before the notification is also such a measure. The construction of five children's homes during this year -- we've already opened two -- is also an action to meet in particular the smallest victims of sexual abuse, who are also in the border country of rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e359	Odd Einar Doorroom - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e362	It affects the territory of another state council, but we must not feel like hackers when one is exposed to Sir Humphrey. What is at the heart of this case is that this is not a matter of competition between businesses; it is a matter of public administration serving Norwegian citizens. The Minister of Justice's commitment is no reason to doubt, but the representative Syversen mentions is that at the moment we get arrangements to help victims of rape, we can risk, because the systems become blind in Health-Norway, that we don't get to deliver what we're going to. The majority must then know that, by a Council of State, although there is another Council of State that has parts of responsibility, we can get a response that causes a) the policy to abdicate - we don't want - b) the systems become blind, and then the victims remain. That's why we have to get the answer back that what we see now can happen in Oslo, not in the whole of Health Norway. My invitation is that the Council of State should take an initiative, so that the Stortinget gets a complete response to this - also from the Minister of Health. But the Minister of Justice is responsible for ensuring that the victims of the rape do not suffer, therefore this commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e369	Once again, I must stress that the matter pointed out in relation to Oslo is, as I understand, in the process, and one has a sample that has proposed various measures. I can't say anything but that for Regeringa's part, it's a goal that we will have good receptions throughout the country during 2008 and it would just be missing if that offer isn't also in place in Oslo. It is not just the question of the reception of rape. This also applies to the large voluntary effort, such as: are made by non-governmental organisations, inter alia: Dixi here in Oslo, who has also been struggling with funding, among others. from the municipality. I'm glad that this funding is in place, so that we get a broad supply, because this applies to people with many problems and challenges, so that we are totally dependent on more people being involved in this load. I'm going to help do mine.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e376	Jan Arild Ellingsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e379	I heard that the Council of State said that he provided that this should be all right. The aim of an overall increase has been to judge more people for rape because it is one of the worst criminal acts to be subjected to. Governments have pointed to many of their actions, which he believes are a long way to go. I suppose I also assume, in the reasoning of the Council of State, that if more people are to be judged, the assumption of being able to be judged in a criminal case should be the same as we have today. That's why what we can do as a whole in relation to having a basis for being judged is very important. There are questions about the quality of the police districts in terms of the tasks they have to do locally - whether we can maintain the necessary quality out there as well. After all, DNA will be, as the Council of State has been involved, an important proof, and also other things in relation to on-site research and that kind of thing. That's the assumption. My question to the Council of State is whether we should still have a high-level list to judge, so that he will keep a focus on the quality of the investigational [[The President announces the next speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e388	We have no ambitions - we have also signaled this in the debate on rape - to lower the payroll requirements for rape. Then we would do the victims a great bear service, and we would also do the targeted ones and those who are under investigation, a great bear service. Then there is legal certainty. But when it's under 1 pst. Of the girls who are being raped -- and some boys -- who get their case settled -- we have a significant problem with clarification. We're totally dependent on, if we're going to get it focused and it gives in the work against rape, and also violence in close relationships, to get the percentage of clarification. That's why the government wants to spend over 60 million this year. kr on the DNA reform. I think that's going to give us results. However, it is also important that police districts are given greater status around this type of work. That's why we've established the teams in eleven districts, and that's also why we're expanding the family violence coordinators to the entire positions. I believe that this is a good contribution, but it is certainly also further challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e395	André Oktay Dahl - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e398	The Minister of Justice has promised for a long time better prevention of crime and better rehabilitation of victims of crime on behalf of himself and the entire Government. That's what the main question here is, that there's a whole lot promised on behalf of more areas than the Ministry of Justice. But unfortunately, it seems that other government councils don't have the same thing, as I see it, genuine commitment and the same strength of commitment as the State Council of Storberget has. For example, the rest of the Government is building the reduction of child protection, the reduction of psychiatry, the reduction of a number of measures for victims of rape, which are not in the Ministry of Justice's portfolio but are located elsewhere, but which have the same negative effect as this measure. What does the Government actually intend to do in relation to ensuring that the entire Government, not just the State Council of Storberget, promises that actions will also be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e403	I want to take a strong distance from the fact that this is a one-man project in the government -- rather the opposite. The reason why we succeed this year in establishing what we regard as very important measures for victims of crime is that several departments are merging. The establishment of children's homes, where we take the smallest and the most vulnerable and meet them in a completely different way - there's child protection inside, there's health inside, there's the justice sector inside - we have been able to do because there are several departments that have managed to raise their eyes to such a vulnerable group. It is precisely based on cross-sectoral cooperation to do what is being done in relation to the police teams. So I want to pay great tribute to my government colleagues because they have been involved and contributed in a field where, in the justice sector, we have traditionally, in many ways, had a monopoly on how to use the instruments. Looking at it more broadly also helps us to get the percentage of information and get better help.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e408	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e412	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment and Development. The red-green government gave the impression that it would actively use public ownership to achieve political goals. The result has been double communication and non-fulfilment expectations. One gives the impression that one will do something active, but the results are missing. We have seen large-scale representatives of the red-green parties deliver orders to the Council of State in relation to the company where ownership from the state is to be respected, but that there is no active intervention. SVs Inga Marte Thorkildsen wants Haga to put the foot down for StatoilHydro's plans in Alaska, while Hallgeir Langeland from SV-- and I quote-- asks Haga to keep the climate bandit StatoilHydro in the ears, so that the company does the right things. There are two examples of orders from red-green politicians in Stortinget. And then the council says nothing will be done. We've heard it before today. Then we see that that's the opposite of the case, that state ownership reduces the impact that the state has on an important environmental issue. It has now become known that Aker Kværner has been actively involved in deliveries to the Thorp plant at Sellafield and has contributed to this reopening. This means that when the state protests the reopening of this facility, it is faced with a double standard because it acts both as a Protestant and as a owner. My question to the Minister for the Environment is: How will he contribute to the fact that the state's active ownership policy does not result in double communication and double standards, and in reality the pressure on important environmental issues is being reduced, not increased, by the state taking care of its new interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e427	The Minister of Oil and Energy has explained in detail how formal government ownership is managed by the Government. I have no further comment on that. It's an excellent presentation of the government's policy. The fact that you have a formal position cannot prevent a continuous dialogue with StatoilHydro, with Aker Kværner - and for the part with all Norwegian companies that are 100 pst. private time. I have that kind of dialogue as Minister for the Environment and Development every day. They're affecting my decisions. I discuss questions with them and come up with views about them. I was at the Industry Assistance Conference yesterday and made a number of views on Norwegian business there. I met Telenor on Friday to discuss their investment portfolio. We must not limit the influence between politics and business to the formal ownership position. It's important. But in addition to that comes the social debate, for which I hope these companies are receptive, and which is part of the debate. In the case of StatoilHydro -- I come back to Aker Kværner -- my main ambition is to see a StatoilHydro moving gradually towards the postfossil phase. British Petroleum put the slogan ‘Beyond petroleum’ in its time. I don't know how far they've come to live up to that slogan, but it's at least a very good ambition to have. We see these signs. StatoilHydro begins to enter wind power, in bioenergy. But the direction must be to carry out the oil and gas business, whether it is in Canada, in Alaska, in Norway or wherever it may be, in the very best way, in order to then gradually move towards a situation where fossil fuels are only a small part and not the crucial part of human energy. Then I can come back to Aker Kværner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e436	I have, along with others in the Left, worked actively for ten years to shut down the Sellafield plant. Now there's a blow about reopening the Thorp plant, which is based on reusing spent nuclear waste. What's happening now is that Norway is getting less credibility, less weight in that commitment, because the government has rewarded Aker Kværner, who has been active in Sellafield, with $5 billion in equity. The former British Environment Minister John Gummer said yesterday that this is a double standard and weakens Norway's credibility in this important issue. Does the Council of State see that what should have been an active ownership instead weakens the strength and credibility of the Norwegian authorities in connection with the Sellafield case? How will he help to correct this debilitated position, which is clearly recognizable now, where the government's representatives stand out with speech points from Aker Kværner and as information spokespersons for the company, instead of being clear officials?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e443	First I have to say that the most unclear in all of this is the position of the Left, because it is obvious that you are fundamentally opposed to the use of state ownership. But every time a specific situation arises, you run to the media to comment on it and think that something should be done. It's like the restaurant guest who thinks the food is awfully bad, and besides, it's too little of it. In the case of Aker Kværner, we are in a factual dilemma. We are against Sellafield, as we are against the Kola power plant. So the question is, are you going to contribute, even if you are against something, to - once the legitimate government has decided to do so - that it is done in the most sound way possible? This is essentially what Aker Kværner has done in Sellafield. It must be excellent to go in and contribute to safety even in what is opposed to Norway. I'll continue the fight against Sellafield. The Prime Minister has brought it up with Gordon Brown. I will continue to address it with British environmental protection authorities, just as we address Russia that we are opposed to the Kola Peninsula power plant. Yet, despite the fact that we're against this, it has to be better, when they've decided to do it, that the security is better, not worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e450	There will be follow-up questions - first Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e453	The point is that Aker Kværner's activity at Sellafield helps to implement a project that I have understood the Norwegian government is opposed to, in line with previous governments. Aker Kværner has the right to do that. Within the EEA Agreement, they may undertake missions even if they are in favour of Norwegian political interests. The problem is getting significantly bigger when the Norwegian government, with the State Council of Solheim at the table, chooses to buy into this company. It can only be seen from the outside that one thus places less emphasis on political commitment by not reopening the Thorp plant or processing plant. A bishop calls this double morality. Former state councillor Berntsen is a pain in the ass. I have even good memories of sparkling rounds between former state councillor Berntsen and then big business representative Erik Solheim. I just have an idea of what words Solheim would use in this case. What will he use when he stands on that side of the pulpit?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e463	Thorbjørn Berntsen is probably the best Environment Minister Norway has had, but God isn't, and right here he said himself a little too early. Reality is the general problem: we are – to speak well Norwegian – ‘dead against Sellafield’. We believe that the reprocessing plant there could be a threat to the Norwegian coast and should be closed, as we believe that the Kola plant should be closed. But then the question is, when the British and Russian governments maintain this, isn't it entirely legitimate to try to make security there as good as possible? We have helped to try to make the safety of Kola as good as possible, despite the fact that we want to shut the plant down. It can't be wrong to help try to make the security of Sellafield the best possible, while using all the political channels we have - and we will continue to do so - to try to get it closed, and above all to ensure that reprocessing is not a permanent part of the British nuclear industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e468	Per-Kristian Foss - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e471	I don't stop being impressed, not over the council, but over Kjell Inge Smoke, who manages to raise $5 billion and bind the state that owns for ten years, and at the top of it all he now acquires two councillors as press workers. I understand that the Council of State did not follow the Focus programme yesterday, where the Minister of Industry appeared as a spokesman for the company - it was very well done, at least with the script he had. And the current Solheim State Council also appears in the same way. Doesn't Erik Solheim, Councillor Solheim, realize that this weakens the Norwegian credibility of the protests against Sellafield? Does the Council of State really believe that double standards work twice as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e476	In my opinion, the opposition introduces a completely irrelevant issue in this, namely the question of 100 pst., 50 pst. or 0 pst. state ownership. Whether it's a 100 pst. privately owned company, my perception is nevertheless exactly on the dot the same. All major Norwegian companies should think about the reputation of Norway as a nation from their foreign activities, but I can't see anything wrong in implementing security measures, even making money on security measures. At least I don't understand that the Right doesn't see it as wrong. Earning money on security measures must be a good thing. There are a number of installations around the globe that we are opposed to, but we still have to try to help make them as good as possible. As far as I know, right-wing governments have in many different ways tried to help make the Kola power plant safer, despite the fact that we are against it all. There's a dilemma there, because it can be interpreted as making things safer, can extend the business, but I think it's a price we have to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e481	Ingredient S. Sørfonn - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e485	Riding two horses is a sport that I don't think should be recommended. But this combination of the Gulf Stream and that technetium, among other things. from the Sellafield plant, has a half-life in terms of radioactivity, in 200,000 years, making it a struggle against the Norwegian coast. It can't just put the Norwegian coast black, but it can actually almost make it brighter, even worse. The Bondevik II government got to stop the emission from Sellafield. Now we find that strong participations have completely different assessments. The fact that a Norwegian, large industrial company, where the state recently entered heavily on the owner’s side, has a contract with the Sellafield plant weakens Norwegian involvement against the damage caused by Sellafield. My question is: does this council worry, and what will he do to prevent the Thorp plant from being reopened?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e492	That's a very important question. The Prime Minister addressed this in a very clear way with Gordon Brown last fall. I went to London in December to address this issue with the new British Environment Minister. I got an answer from them back just a few weeks ago, and the positive thing about it is that at least they think they deserve to keep Norway constantly informed about what they're doing. There are unfortunately indications that the British are going to reopen Thorp, even though we are against it. Then the next big question about a strong impact on the British will ensure that reprocessing does not continue at Sellafield after the deadline that is around 2012, as we hope that the reprocessing will be stopped. In any case, it is positive that the British have said that in their future nuclear power plant plans in the United Kingdom, reprocessing should not be part of it. If the situation with respect to Thorp is negative, at least there is a positive element in the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e499	Let's raise another main question - Torbjørn Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e502	Thank you for that, Your Honor! My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The government has for a long time declared a large-scale commitment to increased prohibitive energy production in Norway. But we have seen that this work has been very boring and slow for the Government so far. Even this puzzled grant scheme, which would replace the electricity certification system, is now being stamped out because of objections raised by ESA. So the investment in renewable energy hasn't at all, as I see it, been something special to boast about. So it is now up to five years for micro, mini and small power plants, and that is approx. 370 small power plants that are now in line at NVE and waiting for proceedings. Last night we could read that it takes up to 20 years to process all applications for wind power projects in Norway, with the limited processing capacity now available in the NVE. In fact, this sounds incredible - at a time when renewable energy production is going to be high here in Norway. Then my question to the Council of State becomes this: This with a lack of procedural capacity has been known for a long time. So why hasn't the government too far made sure to do something about this plug in the system, and what will you possibly do to solve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e513	I will respond specifically to the question of processing capacity, but first I almost have to clear up some misunderstandings. The investment in renewable energy yields results so it consumes. Enova is ahead of the forecasts, and we know that investments in small power plants are now being made, which are important. We are setting up a new round of wind power, with a new round of investment aid. We have a positive development in a number of areas in the field of renewable energy. So it's going well, and it's going faster than Enova's predicted. This is not least due to a huge financial effort. So it's right that we have challenges with regard to the NVE's procedural capacity. It is precisely because the enthusiasm for contributing to the development of renewable energy is so great. Yes, there is a long queue both for the concession treatment of small-scale power plants and for wind power. Therefore, increased resources have also been deployed in the NVE. That's obviously not enough. I'm going to discuss this with the NVE tomorrow, how we're going to deal with it further in the future, but there's more resources put in. The NVE has also been asked to prioritise resources towards concessional treatment. We have asked them first and foremost to focus on the applications that could contribute to the rapid impact of new production, and Mid Norway is also in a special position. But the point is: we have maximum attention around the challenges related to the lack of case handler capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e520	I thank you for your answer. I remind you that yesterday, at the staging room last night, we witnessed how this government is struggling with its energy policy ambitions. It became quite clear yesterday that the government is not in any way able to fulfill its beautiful promises to maintain an industrial power regime for the Norwegian power-intensive industry. We also know that the government is sitting with a huge - we'll say - energy policy workshop in prison, which is called the right to fall back. It's going to be very interesting to see if the government isn't going to go on a solid pledge breach in this case too. I just want to say that after hearing the Council of State boasted of all that this government has now achieved in the field of renewable energy, I am nevertheless very in doubt that this government will really deliver something that really stands for building up new energy production in Norway. It's okay with a little bit here and a little bit there, but we need something that really monasteries. [[The President announces the next speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e529	I think I can write the question out. There has been a significant change of pace and a significant change in the price of renewable energy investment with this government. In future work, we will base the broad agreement in the Storting, in which the Progress Party did not participate, but which is offensive in terms of renewable energy. An important pillar of this work in the future will hopefully be green certificates. Now we're in the middle of discussions with our Swedish friends about a green certificate scheme. It's said too early to predict whether we're getting to the goal, but there's a strong desire on both sides to get this done. This will be a mechanism that will probably trigger significant amounts of renewable energy. It is a market-based system, which will mean that consumers will notice this on the electricity bill, but I also understand that the Progress Party – although they have not been involved in the agreement on climate – is agreed with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e538	There will be follow-up questions - Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e541	It must be in place to remind the Council of State that the Government is now in government year three, of four. One should expect action soon. In the case of Enova, it is highly unclear whether Enova reaches its targets. We don't get to know that for years. What is clear is that Norway is among Europe’s worst in terms of renewable energy support regimes, and this means that our best forces choose to invest in renewable energy beyond their borders and not in Norway. My question is: When does the Council intend to make it attractive for Norwegian companies to invest in Norwegian renewable energy? Does the Council not see that it is a major problem that the NVE is currently struggling with the fact that they have only three case handlers in the renewable sector, who - as the previous question asks - do - that our windmill bet is most likely not to be able to deal with it until 20 years have passed, and that a normal procedure in the small power sector is several years?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e553	Again - in relation to the obvious misunderstandings: the NVE employs around 420 people. There are far more than three of those who are engaged in renewable energy, just so it's very clear. The government represents a change in pace, a significant change in the price of renewable energy, and a great deal is happening. Yes, it is true that in some areas and in some countries better arrangements are available on the continent, and we are studying them. We must not forget that Norway has 99 pst. renewable electricity production. We are thus in a completely different situation than the countries on the continent. But it doesn't prevent our ambition is to raise additional renewable energy. That's why we're working on a [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e562	Bente Thorsen - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e566	The Council of State says that Enova is well on track to grant grants to renewable projects. It's very positive. She also says that the government is now resuming negotiations with Sweden on a predictable green certification system. It's also positive, but given that we have to have predictability, this is urgent. Because we also know that the EU's renewable directive will not allow any encroachment by the Norwegian/Swedish side. If the negotiations take too long, ESA may be forced to say no to the Swedish-Norwegian certification system. Does the Council of State realize the urgency of completing this work? Does the Council of State mean that we are well placed to work on the implementation of the Swedish-Norwegian electricity certification system? When will this work be completed, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e571	There were a lot of elements here, and not everyone was really good at understanding about ESA and the relationship to a green certificate market. But in any case, the situation is that we are in discussions with our Swedish friends about green certificates. We are working on the basis of a wish that the negotiations will lead to a positive result, so that we get those arrangements in place as soon as possible. It says in the climate agreement that we should introduce other schemes if we do not come ashore with green certificates, schemes that will contribute to at least as good conditions for those who want to invest in renewable energy as the green certificates. I can only confirm what I have said many times before. We have maximum attention on the negotiations with the Swedes, and we would like them to arrive as soon as possible. We're working in parallel to think about what to do if they don't get ashore.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e578	Gunnar Kvassheim - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e581	I note with satisfaction that when representatives of the Government are pressured into environmental issues, they are increasingly using the climate agreement as a crutch. I'm very happy about that. Good help was given to a more offensive environmental policy in the climate agreement. What's a problem in energy policy is that there's no match between what one says one will do, and what one actually does. It is true, as the Council of State says, that the signals that it should be committed to renewable energy production have led many enthusiasts to projects involving both small-scale and wind power. Those who work with small-scale power plants are faced with a tougher tax regime than before, which means that many projects are at risk. Those who work with wind power face many years of proceedings. Will the Council of State, in addition to having maximum attention to this, promise a rapid clarification as to whether it will strengthen the supply of resources to the NVE and that the enthusiasts who are in line with projects will be informed when their project can be addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e593	Firstly, I am somewhat surprised that the Left reduces the climate agreement to a crutch. I believe that it is significantly more significant than that. With regard to the specific question, the answer is yes. With regard to the processing capacity of the NVE, we are very aware that it is not good enough in the renewable field now. We have to try to solve this by re-prioritising the NVE's resources. They've done that to some degree. They probably have to do it more. In addition, this is a budgetary question. It's about the total resources of the NVE. We also have full attention to that. In the case of small-scale power plants in particular, it is made clear that all applications under the NVE prior to 5 October are to be dealt with under the old regime. So now we're going to have a review of the tax ego that was adopted in Stortinget before Christmas. We will come back to that in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e604	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e609	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 6, from the representative of Vera Lysklött to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who is involved in the second meeting. Question 7, from Mr Bård Hoksrud to the Minister for the Environment and Development, is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State is involved in the second meeting. Question 12, from the representative Borghild Tende to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered before question 1. The question will be raised by the representative of Inge Hallgeir Solli. Question 14, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Justice, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 12, answered before question 1, i.e. first in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e627	The first question to be answered after these changes is question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e633	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘NRK Focus had a report on 5 February on a pedophile network that has operated for thirty years and with identified Nordics in key roles. Abuse has taken place both in Norway and abroad, and a large number of children are involved. Håvard Aksnes, Kripos, acknowledged in Focus that the reason the police had not come to an end in the matter was that such investigation is unusually resource-intensive. Does the Council of State agree that such a serious matter is not being investigated when the network still appears to be in full activity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e647	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has argued that it will intensify its efforts to combat child abuse. I have therefore committed a broad effort against this type of crime, which is also supported by the Right. It concerns both violence in close relationships in general and sexual abuse in particular. Combating such crime requires increased efforts at several levels, because it is expressed in several ways and in many contexts. A part of the reinforced effort in this field is to strengthen the competence to prevent and better prevent children from being subjected to abuse. In addition, children and young people who have been abused need to be provided with good help and treatment. In order to strengthen cross-sectoral competence both in dealing with criminal offences and in increasing the provision of assistance to children, it is well known – as I said earlier today – that the Government is establishing children's homes. We opened in 2007 two children's homes - in Bergen and in Hamar - where questioning of the children, studies of them and treatment can take place in one place. During 2008, the Government will open up three additional children’s homes to offer these skills in all parts of the country. I say that because this is important, also in order to be able to reveal the kind of issues that the representative Aspaker raises questions about here today. International cooperation against abuse is essential in order to achieve better control and prevention of the type of crime that the representative asks about. Interpol is working to detect and identify those who are being overreached. are on assault images, while at the same time building up the possibilities for identifying new abuses. This is a challenging but at the same time a laborious and resource-intensive work, which is also a priority for us. On the Norwegian side, this work was supported financially last year and will also be supported this year, with a total of EUR 300 000, corresponding to EUR 2.4 million. kr, something I announced to Interpol's Secretary-General in my meeting with him last year. This will give Norwegian police authorities access to the database, which could bring great benefits in terms of coordinating matters internationally. It will also increase the ability to identify victims as well as to detect the attackers. I have been informed that the Police Directorate is now working to increase the crew at Kripos and to develop the technological prerequisites, in order to increase the effort to tackle child abuse and to strengthen the police’s opportunities for ‘ online patrol’, which the Government initiated in the context of the revised national budget. In addition, there is a complete review and upgrade of the current respondent in terms of tampering. A new and improved version of the ‘red button’ is expected to be established during 2008. This will make this service more accessible and in many ways represent the visible part of the police activity of Internet users, especially children. Kripos has continued the prevention work with filters. This is a filter that disables access to websites that show images of child abuse. I would also like to mention that in December 2007, the Government presented an action plan against violence in close relations, the ‘Return Point’, for the period 2008-2011. The plan contains 50 measures, with many good elements, which will be accurate also in terms of this type of crime. Investigation of sexual abuse against children is a priority task for Norwegian police. Unfortunately, it cannot be excluded that previous convictions or suspicions of sexual abuse against children continue to be perpetrated. However, I would like to remind you that the specific investigation of criminal cases falls within the competence of the independent prosecution authority and the police and is in this way difficult to deal with here and now. The case referred to in the Focus programme was investigated by the Follo Police District with assistance from Kripos in the period 1998-1999 - a long time ago. The investigation resulted in several convictions, but also in some corrections. However, I have been informed by the Advocate General that there is no basis today to assume that Kripos and the police districts concerned have failed to prioritize the matter or the matters referred to. Serious sexual offences are known as central priority issues. This is reflected in the last circular of the Riksadvokat on objectives and priorities. This priority has been in force for a long time. The Advocate General states that there is also no reason to doubt that there have been sensible balances of investigation efforts, withholding available funds and the prospect of succeeding in clarifying possible further criminal offences. This kind of thing we have to recognize is resource-intensive. The question of the use of resources to combat child abuse falls within the responsibility of the Directorate of Police. However, there is no basis to assume that Kripos and the police districts concerned have failed or failed to take action for resource reasons. The Directorate of Police has announced that this has also been confirmed by Kripos, who has otherwise earmarked personnel for intelligence, investigation and methodological development in the field of sexualised violence, with particular emphasis on issues relating to abuses against the most vulnerable of us, children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e670	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I think that is all reason for concern about the resource situation in the police and their ability to follow up. I think that the investigation into the Lommeman case now shows that there are signs that the police are taking self-criticism, that they believe that the matter has not been taken seriously enough in the past and that there has not been enough resources put in. I also think when it comes to the pedophile network, even though some of this is a long way back, that there is a lot of evidence that they are in full swing. I expect you to follow it up actively. This is also about Norway’s reputation in relation to our being a country that has placed great emphasis on children’s sense of security. We're going to investigate, and we're going to get to the bottom of this. I have a question for the Council of State: in connection with the genocide discussion here yesterday, there was news that eight new posts had arrived in Kripos to give priority to that type of investigation. When will the Government follow up with similar replenishments to Kripos to follow up child abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e677	I would ask the questioner to exercise caution with every opportunity to say that there is a lack of resources, and that results are not achieved. It's an unfortunate signal to send out, all the time a total accumulation has actually granted more money to the police and for action in this regard. Then the handkerchief thing is pulled out. If it were to be an example that we are now in a situation where we don't bet on these kinds of things, we send out wrong signals. In that case, the recipient must be addressed to former ministers of justice and the former government, who in that case did not succeed, among other things. to get a breakthrough in that kind of thing. When we actually get breakthroughs, there must be reason to say that these are issues where one sees that it is useful to put in action. It's useful to use more resources on it, and now, as I said in my reply, you've been aiming to work on increasing crews in Kripos in relation to the kind of issues the asker asks about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e684	More than anyone else in this country, the Red Children have engaged in assaults against children. They've done a lot of research and a lot of good and thorough work. What they're very clear about is that the identification of the victims, children who are victims of abuse, is a very cumbersome and difficult job. I think it's almost alarming that the council then tries to tell here that it's not about resources for Kripos. It's about how many people you have, which you can put on the job to pursue these kinds of things. The council also did not respond - in the case of the pedophilia case and a few other types of examples that we now have - if he does not see that it hurts Norway's reputation that we do not manage to keep order in our own house, when we are so busy telling how good we are to fight child abuse. The truth is that we now have some stories and examples showing that Norway too has clear improvement points in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e691	I wonder about the questioner's angle in these matters. It is not that I have said that this is not about resources. Rather, on the contrary, I have said that it is about resources. That's why the government came to Stortinget in connection with the revised national budget last year and said we wanted an additional allocation to Kripos in relation to the police station on the net of 6 million. kr. That's why we've decided to spend 2.4 million. kr to support Interpol's work in relation to identification. That's why we've spent resources putting down the Faremo committee and now want to get a separate police station online as a result of it. What is my warning index finger is that the representative from the Right is constantly drawing out that it is not doing anything, and that you are not getting a break through. It is a very unfortunate signal in relation to all the victims who have expectations that something will be done. We also have to signal that it is possible to get a break through the cases. All that time Right also helps to create a majority for the proposals that come, among other things. As far as resources are concerned for Kripos, I actually think that we should agree to say externally: we are strengthening Kripos with, among other things. Six million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e698	Then we go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e704	This question, from the representative Borghild Tenden to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, will be raised by the representative Inge Hallgeir Solli. The question will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Labour and Inclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e707	‘In Thiensaken, a number of questions are raised that obviously require broad discussion and comprehensive treatment. The matter was, however, dealt with by the head of foreign affairs, without the whole mention being called in. Is the Council of State satisfied that a large number of matters in the Foreign Affairs Study are being dealt with by the facilitator alone?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e714	I will answer this question on behalf of my fellow State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. The Foreign Affairs Act provides that the decision-making procedure is to be determined by the Foreign Affairs Department in each case, with the exception of cases dealt with on a large scale. The decision as to whether the case is to be decided at the hearing or by the facilitator shall be taken by a facilitator on the basis of the legal criterion «essential questions». This is understood in practice as issues of material importance to the decision or outcome of the case. Such matters shall be decided at the hearing. It is important for me to stress that matters that are also assessed and decided by the principal have been prepared and evaluated by other professionals in the Study of Foreign Affairs. This has also been the case in the Thien case. It is necessary to carry out an assessment based on the documents of the case, against existing country information, legislation and practices. It is not always possible to assess the basis for the assessment of the form of decision solely on the basis of the fact in the specific case. The proportion of attenders’ meetings could be influenced by the type of cases that enter the Foreign Office as a complaint. In the context of the regulatory work on new foreign law, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion will assess whether rules can be laid down to determine specific types of matters as a general rule at the hearing. In this context, it will also be assessed whether provision is to be made for provisions relating to the concept of ‘essential questions’, which is a central concept in determining the form of the process. I can also inform you that the Ministry has initiated an external review of foreign policy in relation to the choice of form of decision. The investigator shall be subject to at least 100 random asylum cases decided in 2006 and 2007. The results of this review will be used as a basis for the work on the regulations of the new Foreign Affairs Act. Finally, I would like to stress that urgent procedure is also a side of legal certainty, which means that a proportion of the foreign student's cases should be decided differently from the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e730	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This specific case concerns Thien Thi Vo. She has lived in Norway for eight years. She has been married for two years and eight months, while the requirement for a residence permit is three years. Thien bore a child who had a serious illness. The child died and is now buried at the Nittedal church. She has close family here in the country. Thien takes care of herself, and her employer very much wants to keep her. She is now pregnant for the fifth month with her new partner, and if the decision to expel Thien is effective, father and child are separated. The Grand Duchy and the Ministry shall not deal with individual cases. It is the UDI and Foreign Affairs Department that do, but the Council of State can assess whether the foreign student’s assessments are in accordance with the intentions of the law. The state council partially responded to it now. However, I would like to ask: If there is no agreement between the intention and the practice of the law, will the Council consider giving new governance signals about another and more humane practice to the UDI and the Foreign Affairs Department?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e739	First of all, I would like to say that it is important and good that we have a great commitment around matters that are dealt with in the Study of Foreign Affairs, and also by the principal alone. These are important questions, where we need all kinds of public engagement. I think that's one of the prerequisites that we also get good decisions in the bodies that are actually going to make the decisions. This belongs to the department of another Council of State, but I am convinced that the Council of State of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is also concerned that all the framework conditions surrounding these rules will be evaluated on an ongoing basis. The fact that you're now working on the regulation is just a signal that you're conscious, among other things. in relation to the concept of ‘essential issues of doubt’, which ensures the process. So at the same time, with good experience from the justice sector, I have to say that we depend on finding a balance in order to ensure a quick process in these matters as well, so that some things have to go in a simplified track. It also benefits the applicants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e748	The Council of State mentioned this with significant doubts, and that is the leading point in this type of case. I just want to end by commenting that when there's a big difference between what some people out in society at least see as significant doubt, and what the Foreigner's point of view as substantial doubt, it's clear that there's a great deal of press coverage and a popular commitment. What I want to point out is that it will be important in these kinds of cases where I feel that there may be significant doubts, that they should receive a wide range of treatment throughout the Study of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e755	I just have to point out that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is now working on how the term ‘essential issues’ is interpreted and applied, and whether there is a need to make changes in the practice in relation to the regulations that come. At the same time, I would like to stress that part of our task as head of a department, being in government, is just to be responsive to the activity that happens out there in society. I believe that these rules are best served by the fact that we have broad legitimacy and trust around them. That's why I think there's reason to welcome all possible commitment, including around these kinds of things, because it sheds important light on the unusually important challenges for both individuals and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e762	Then we go to question No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e769	The question to the Minister for Finance is as follows: «Very many minor forms of accounting, in particular in the districts, have been subject to temporary derogations from the rules of having authorised the accounting officer as a day-to-day/professional manager. In very many places it is not advisable to recruit staff to meet the formal requirements of the law. Will the Council of State take the regulatory initiative which allows for permanent derogations in cases where today's leaders undoubtedly have an adequate real competence, so that smaller accounting firms in the districts can continue to operate?»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e778	A public authorisation scheme for accountants was introduced by the Accounting Act in June 1993 and entered into force on 1 September of that year. Under the law, natural persons and companies must be authorised by the credit supervision before they can account for others in industry. The purpose of establishing a public authorisation scheme for accountants was to increase the qualifications of those who undertook accounting tasks in order to improve the quality of the accounts and the information to be provided by the accounting officer to tax and tax authorities. Training and practice requirements are required to obtain authorisation as accounting officer and continuing training requirements in order to maintain it. A company may not become an authorised accounting company without having an authorised accounting officer as the Executive Director. The introduction of a public authorisation scheme for accountants and accounting companies has been accompanied by flexible transitional arrangements. All those who, at the date of entry into force of the Act, kept accounts for others and who were approved accountants by the Institute for the Approval of Accounting Officers or who were registered accountants in the Foundation Registered Accountant could obtain authorisation as an accountant by sending a message to the Authorization Board for accountants by 1 March 1994. Furthermore, accountants who, at the date of entry into force of the Act, did not comply with the authorisation requirements were given the opportunity to continue their activities until the end of 1999. Within this transitional period, such accountants could be authorised either by satisfying a training requirement which constituted half of the ordinary requirement or by choosing to take a specific test to demonstrate that they had sufficient qualifications to keep accounts for others in business. Exemptions from the authorisation requirement were provided for agricultural, horticultural and forestry accounting teams and for fishing and fishing activities at the time of the establishment of the authorisation system. This was justified by the specific accounting and annual accounts rules applicable to the agricultural sector. The specific accounting rules for the agricultural sector - the obligation to quote - were repealed in 1999. Activity in primary industries now follows the provisions of accounting and accounting legislation as other traders. On this basis, the exemption was provided for in the accounting regulation for agricultural financial statements, etc. repealed in 2006. Existing accounting teams were given a deadline until the end of 2007 to comply with authorisation requirements. In my opinion, the authorisation scheme for accountants and accountants has worked well. Many suggest that the scheme has contributed to better accountancy services for traders, better reporting to tax authorities and to combating financial crime. I believe this is just as important for entrepreneurs in the districts as in the central districts. I therefore do not want to accept any changes that would allow accounting companies in the districts to operate without having an authorised accounting officer as the Executive Director. The training and practice requirements for becoming an authorised accountant shall contribute in a practicable manner to the adequate competence of authorised accountants. In my opinion, it would not be practical to allow the authorisation of accountants on the basis of an alternative test of the competence of persons who do not meet the training and practice requirements. I also point out that the basis for the specific exemption from the authorisation obligation for agricultural accounts etc. are no longer present.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e791	This is not an unexpected response from the Council of State. I thank you for that, even if it's negative. We need to be aware that there are probably several hundred accountancy offices, especially in very small places, which are now simply shut down, because it is not possible to obtain these personnel, and because in these one-off companies you may have to free yourself for both one and two years to acquire the necessary skills. I will not argue so much more here, because I have understood that the Council of State has so far decided not to do anything about it, but at least I would recommend to the Council of State to ask the Banking Authority to respond to the requests they are receiving for continued dispensation. There are enquiries in the Credit Authority that are several months old, and I think a yes or no will be practical when you have to apply for another job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e800	I am sure that the Credit Authority will deal with these matters as quickly as they can, and they will closely follow up on what matters are raised in the Questionnaire and also in the Stortinget. It is obvious, of course, that for those in this situation a rapid clarification of the situation will be important. It is a wish from the representative Fleet that I can help to make it more focused on in the Credit Authority. On the main issue, I have gone very carefully through the transitional rules that apply, the requirements that have been set up, and the flexibility in the way in which they are introduced. We now face a number of challenges in finding skilled labour. I think we're doing ourselves a bear service if it's to be followed by lower demands on one area after another. In this area, it is well justified and documented, and with flexible transitional arrangements, the standard has been raised in a way that both city and country serve.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e810	I do not disagree that you should not accept a lower general standard, but I have to say that I may be a little surprised that a finance minister from SV is not more concerned with preserving tiny small businesses in the districts, looking at real competence, and perhaps also looking at the fact that even though these transitional arrangements have been in place for very many years - I see it - it will be so that there are people here who have had a full real competence, who have kept the accounts for a number of companies and industries that are subsequently audited and approved. They have a life course, they don't seem to be able to get this extra education. Maybe you should consider looking at whether no further exemptions could be granted, so you got a phase-out by phased out humans as such, because they will eventually be.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e815	I am sure that the representative fleet sees that there is a balance between different considerations in order to raise the standard in this area. In addition, there has been a flexible and long transitional regime, which has just taken into account the real competence of many of these people. And at some point, such a transitional arrangement must cease. That is the background to the procedure in this case. However, with regard to the applications for which the Credit Authority is assessing, I would like to contribute to clarifying the situation for those who may have applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e825	I want to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘Hamar and Ringsaker municipality in Hedmark believe that the parties are required to pay property taxes, while for example: in the municipality of Elverum, the general rule is that the landowners have to pay this tax. This means that the municipalities interpret the legislation differently, a regulation that has not been adjusted since 1992, and thus the Ministry of Finance is uncertain about what is right. Will the Council of State address this matter in such a way that we have clear legislation that cannot be misunderstood?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e834	The Law on Santa Claus was amended in 2004 and 2006. The Supreme Court assessed the fundamental legality of these amendments in its judgment of 21 September 2007. The Property Tax Act does not contain any explicit rules as to who is the debtor of property tax in real estate properties. The Ministry of Finance, in an interpretative opinion of 1992, has used the principle that parties pay property taxes on the value of the building while accumulating, i.e. landowners shall pay taxes on property for the value of the land. The principle is subsequently established by the Supreme Court in a judgment delivered in the Official Journal 2002, p. 1411. However, in the interpretation opinion, the Ministry also considered that there is an exemption for fixed-term contracts for a period longer than 99 years, or where the party has a unilateral right to extend the contract without a time limit. In these cases, the attachment is considered to be the owner of the land in relation to the property tax requirement. It is an old legal situation in Norway that total rights of use are treated as real property when the court has a duration of over 99 years. I assume that these principles have usually been followed up in the practice of the municipalities. What is described as a different interpretation on the part of municipalities may be due to the fact that party contracts vary in content in terms of duration and the possibility of extension. However, I do not want to rule out that some municipalities have not yet been subject to the consequences of the changes in the Law on Landfill and the Supreme Court rulings on it. The opinions of the Ministry of Finance were given before the law on the land was amended. The changes have strengthened the position of the anchorages in the contractual relationship. The Ministry of Finance will review the issue of property taxes in real estate in the light of changes in property law and assess the need for more detailed regulation in the Property Tax Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e845	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret as a positive answer, and as that the Council of State will go into this and figure out what is right. The council says the department will look at this quite quickly. Then it's natural to ask how long we're talking about, because property taxes are being printed out in almost all municipalities now. It is important that the right people pay what falls on the individual. Then my follow-up question is: how long can you imagine that it will take before there are clear rules on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e854	I do not dare to set a clear deadline for when we can finish this work. But as the representative Bredvold is familiar with, my commitment to landowners is great and has been so for many years. I am glad that representatives of the Progress Party are now also concerned about the situation of the Santa party, because unfortunately it was that the Progress Party was among those parties that at an earlier stage changed the law of Santa Claus in disfavor of the parties, which has led to a significant increase in their party fees, and that has been a cause for concern and trouble for many. But I appreciate the fact that the representative Bredvold is now concerned with the property tax rules that apply. My commitment is firm, as it has been for many years, and I will follow up this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e863	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Then I can answer back that as late as last summer the Progress Party proposed to remove the property tax. Had the property tax been removed then, a proposal that otherwise only supported the Progress Party, we would not have had the problem that we are now facing. But the problem is there, that some parties pay, while other parties don't pay. That's the inequality that we're going to have to get rid of right now. It is clear that I am also asking why not follow up legislative changes by the department. The law on land ownership was amended in 2004 and 2006, as the Council of State says, but this has not been followed up by property taxes. I guess there must be someone here who has been doing a bit of a drudgery and not doing his job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e874	No, you can't accuse neither the Ministry of Finance nor anyone who works for us, for scurvy. Of course, we should look at this matter, as I said. However, I would like to stress that for many landowners, the increase in the attachment fee has been much higher than what has been the usual property tax level around the municipalities. So if you take care of the Santa party, I would wish the commitment of the Advance Party had come at a little earlier time. But in any case, these issues of property tax may have an impact on individuals. That's the background for us to go through the changes in the law that have happened, and look at how the property tax law turns out to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e884	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘Maximum right has decided not to deal with the tax liability appeal of SINTEF. The judgment of the Lawyers' Court involves a tax charge for SINTEF of approximately SEK 30 million in the years 2001-2007. This may include several similar tax matters. There are high expectations in the research community that the tax law will be amended to exempt them from income tax. Will the Council of State propose to amend the tax law so as to eliminate the income tax on this type of research institute?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e893	The Supreme Court Committee considered that there were no conditions under which the appeals of SINTEF were to be tried by the court, and the court of law confirming the equation of SINTEF for the 2001 and 2002 years of income are thus enforceable. Under the Tax Act, income earned by activities is taxable. Research activity may be non-profit-making and non-acquired, but may also be carried out as part of a commercial activity with a view to generating profits. It is the research institutes’ operating income generated by commercial research that is subject to tax liability and not research itself. The judgment of the Lawyers' Court states that more than 90 pst. the revenue generated by Sintef in 2002 derives from research into its mission. The Court concludes that such research for remuneration has a greater similarity to services other than activities aimed at achieving an ideal purpose. The law further states that parts of the activities of SINTEF will be in direct competition with taxable domestic companies, such as: The Norwegian Veritas. A rule that relieves SINTEF and the approx. 60 other research institutes from taxes on business income could give these institutions a tax advantage and could thus distort competition between them and taxable activities. Such a rule would also discriminate unfairly against income from research activities in relation to income from other activities. However, the research institutes manage partly larger asset values, which are initially subject to taxes on wealth. On the basis of a proposal from the Government, the Storting last autumn decided that assets used in research activities should be exempt from property taxes. The rule came into force on 1 January of this year. After the amendment of the regulation, the tax burden on institutions will be very limited. This change, and the strong considerations that speak against a rule on income tax exemptions, mean that I will not propose to amend the tax law so that the research institutes are exempted from income tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e904	I thank the Minister for the answer. I am pleased that there was a change in the property tax from 1 January, but I am a little disappointed with the answer regarding the income tax, because I had received signals from the red-green politicians that it would be assessed in the budget for 2009. As you know, SINTEF has to pay taxes all the way back from 2001. That means 30 million. kr for the research foundation. In the 2008 budget, the right has given priority to restoring the 30 million. kr, so that SINTEF escapes from this tax liability. I'm not going to get any closer to the government's cutting edge in research. But when the investment in research is initially weak, it does not help with a tax liability. As we know, the surplus from research goes to, among other things. investments in laboratories, knowledge and competence. Will the Council of State do anything to allow the tax charge to be waived for the SINTEF Foundation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e915	It is important to have a certain level of non-discrimination between different persons, institutions or enterprises that are required to be remunerated. I don't think it's a wise idea to let it become the theme in a Question Time in Stortinget. The question of whether additional appropriations will be made available to SINTEF in the case becomes a question of budgets. It is not right that the government has introduced some severance in research. The effort in relation to research has increased significantly, and this government has been able to increase as much in three years as it did in four. I am also pleased that it was our government that made the changes regarding the exemption from the property tax, because it has been perceived as a greater burden for these research institutes than any income tax. There is the problem of distortions in income tax issues, which means that it is not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e924	This tax liability is very unfortunate, and it also affects other parts of the research environment. There have been signs that equality authorities in other parts of the country may now do something of the same thing as they have done in Trondheim, and that more research institutes will be affected by this SINTEF tax. It has been 50 years’ practice to exempt research institutions from tax. How will the Council of State ensure that the framework conditions for the research institutes do not get worse than they are in the countries with which we compete and that we continue to have a strong focus on research in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e931	The income tax imposed on research institutes is linked to commercial activities, an actual income and an actual profit. It is also possible for these institutions to carry out profits and losses over the years, so that the tax on income is not a heavy burden on most research institutes. What was a significant problem was the issue of wealth taxation. I'm glad that we have cleared that matter up, because many institutions perceived that significant parts of the values they administered on behalf of the entire knowledge society were taxed unfairly. I believe that they now have good framework conditions. The government will continue to prioritise research issues in the budgets that are coming, but that is what we need to get back to when we present the budget for 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e941	«The councils of State ruled out in NRK Møre and Romsdal on 5 February that she believed that the school had received too little income from the municipalities. In both 2007 and 2008, the free revenues of municipalities decline compared to the previous year. What does the Council of State think municipalities should have used less to prioritise/abstain from school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e948	Let me first go over a little bit about the local economy situation. After all, the municipal sector has experienced a historical increase in income in recent years. In the period 2005-2008, the real growth in the income of the municipal sector is estimated at approximately DKK 21 billion. Of these, the real growth in the free income of the municipal sector amounts to approximately DKK 10 billion. The budget ceiling for the municipal sector in 2008 represents a real increase in the total revenue of DKK 6.2 billion. Free revenue is increased by DKK 1.5 billion. In addition, almost DKK 0.5 billion will be spent on the relief of free revenues as a result of the fact that the government is financing a greater part of municipal expenditure on resource-intensive services through earmarked reimbursements. The growth of revenue is usually calculated from the estimated revenue level for 2007 in the revised 2007 national budget. The question refers to the decline in the free revenues of municipalities in both 2007 and 2008 compared to the previous year. This needs to be seen in the context of a much higher revenue growth rate in 2006 and 2007 than estimated when the 2007 and 2008 Community frameworks were established. This is mainly due to an unexpected high level of tax revenue, particularly in 2006, but also in 2007. The local government sector should not use such additional income for permanent operating costs. It has also been communicated to the municipal sector. School is one of the Government's bet areas. The government has, among other things: The aim is to employ more teachers in school. Figures from the Statistical Central Bureau for the third quarter of 2007 show a significant increase in resource use in schools. This shows that municipalities are following central signals and giving priority to important welfare services for citizens. However, it is worrying that the Ministry of Knowledge has received signals of a violation of students’ rights in some municipalities by not getting the number of hours they are entitled to. The Ministry of Knowledge will therefore consider measures to ensure that students receive the training they require, in accordance with the Training Act and the professional and hourly distribution in the curriculum. The Ministry of Knowledge will also closely monitor the development of resource use in initial training. Through the strengthening of the local economy, the government has provided a basis for municipalities to strengthen the provision of services. However, priority will be needed for municipalities and the need for increased efforts may differ between municipalities. In order to facilitate the best possible provision of services, the local authority sector must also ensure efficient operation, good governance, sound financial management and a good employer policy. If the municipalities streamline with 0,5 pst. or reduce sick leave by one percentage point, it can be released approximately DKK 1,4 billion and DKK 1,5 billion respectively. In addition, I would like to point out that several municipalities can increase their income by introducing property taxes. I trust that the municipalities are initially able to meet the challenges they face and that they can develop a good service offer. The government budget for 2008 facilitates this. I think it is necessary to have a slightly longer-term debate on how to secure resources for some of what is most important for Norway's future, namely what kind of effort we have in school. We have too many examples of municipalities now tightening up the school sector - not recruiting new teachers - or kittens in teaching positions. That's a big concern. We do not today have instruments in line with the Soria Moria declaration that provide the basis for stronger government governance to secure resources for the local government sector than I have been in this answer. But I think, on behalf of the SV and on behalf of everyone who is involved in the school sector, that it is a necessary debate to move forward. If we see that school efforts do not keep pace with the rise in the municipal economy, we need to see if there are other ways to ensure that the resources benefit the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e974	It is quite surprising that the Minister of Finance's response to this is stronger government governance of the municipalities' priorities. The municipalities around the country do not budget with thoughtful figures, they budget with reality. The reality, as the Minister of Finance himself writes in the national budget, is that the free revenues from the previous year fell both in 2007 and 2008. That's why 40 pst. of the country's population lives in municipalities that in 2008 cut their school budgets. The problem is that the Minister of Finance creates the impression that the municipalities have gained more free income and have therefore chosen not to give priority to school. That's not the case. My question is again: is it to understand that the Minister of Finance has not yet taken on board that the revenues of municipalities have declined in both 2007 and 2008 in relation to the previous year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e981	I've been going through carefully what's the situation for the local economy, and looking at how it's evolved under a red-green regime. I do not stop to wonder that representatives from the Right, who, through their last government period, made sure that the local government sector was quite hungry for funding, allowed themselves to enter into a discussion and draw a picture of the local economy as if it had not been one of our priority areas - because it has been. This does not mean that you sit around the municipalities and think they have flusts. It is the actual evolution of the tax intake in 2006, which has led to the question of the free resources in 2007 and 2008. This exceptional tax access was not intended for municipalities to operate. I think it is worrying that many municipalities are now cutting into teaching positions. That is why I think it is absolutely necessary to take forward a discussion that is about prioritising the local government sector. That's going to be a question for each budget. However, if it is not enough to give priority to the local government sector to ensure that the school sector is also given priority, I think it is necessary to discuss stronger governance of education issues in relation to transfers from the state to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e988	What should worry the Minister of Finance, and I expect her to have an overview of when she gives a description of the municipal economy under our government, is that the municipality's share of the social cake -- and that's a concept that maybe SV is familiar with -- is less now than it was under the Bondevik II government. That's the point. The Minister of Local Affairs has understood this, for on the same day as Kristin Halvorsen made his statement, the Minister of State said to the County Council of KS: ‘The government has asked municipalities to give priority to care for the elderly and kindergartens. The municipalities have. Then it may seem strange that from the Government's side, we criticize the municipalities for not spending the same money on schools and child protection. Neither we who govern the country nor those who govern the municipalities can use the same money twice.’ I am convinced that the Minister of State had heard the Minister of Finance at NRK Møre and Romsdal coming in from the airport to KS County Council when she came across that criticism by the Minister of Finance. Does the Minister of Finance agree with the Minister of State that the municipalities cannot use the money twice?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1002	I agree that no one can use the money twice. However, many municipalities have had far greater scope for action than they have used in the care sector and the nursery sector. Fortunately, priority has been given to these two areas. But I repeat that I think it is worrying that School-Norway has seen that the resources have come to that sector, not to the extent that one should believe in the increase in municipal income. And precisely because I believe that school and knowledge are so crucial for the future, I think it is necessary to discuss the priority of the local economy, of course, but also whether it should strengthen government governance to secure the school's share of those resources. As I said at the outset, I do not have any points of view for this in the Soria Moria statement per. today. But we are facing new discussions on how to ensure that the school is given priority, and in that discussion, it is fully possible to raise exactly the debate that I have done: how are we going to ensure that the municipalities get a proper increase in their resources for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1014	I will ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘The banking sector is characterised by a switch of banking connections. This weakens competition and provides more expensive banking services. The introduction of personal account numbers will facilitate the exchange of banks. However, the government has concluded not to impose this because the costs are allegedly too high. The cost question is poorly addressed. Some experts believe that costs are lower than the industry claims. Will the Government have the concrete costs calculated by independent actors, and in that case what time will that be?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1023	I have been concerned about the question that the representative Torbjørn Hansen is travelling, and on that very basis I have wanted to facilitate that it will be easier to exchange the bank. There is also a background for the request of the credit supervision in December 2006 to set up a working group to assess appropriate measures, including the introduction of personal account numbers. The working group has been composed of representatives of the Banking Authority, the Norwegian Bank, the Competition Authority, the Consumer Council, the Savings Bank Association and the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation. The report of the Working Party was available in June 2007. In the opinion of the Working Group, the introduction of personal account numbers would not provide sufficient socio-economic gains in relation to costs. Instead, the working group recommended that the authorities follow up the work of the banking industry to draw up standard agreements for the distribution of responsibilities and work in the event of a bank exchange between new and old banking connections, called ‘Switching Codes’. This was considered a good solution to many of the practical problems customers face at bank exchange. The recommendations of the working group were generally widely supported in the consultation. As regards the cost side of the introduction of personal bank account numbers, the working group made it clear in the report that it had not been possible to carry out a systematic review to identify all circumstances that had to be changed and that it was therefore not possible to have a qualified view of the total costs of the introduction of personal account numbers. However, the working group assumed that the introduction of personal bank account numbers would represent the largest IT project in the banking industry ever. I have noted that critical comments have been made on the cost side assessment of the working group. Among other things, it has been claimed that cost estimates appear to represent too much the perceptions of the banking industry. It has also been argued that the parallels to the introduction of telephone number portability are greater than what the working group has expressed. Finally, it has been argued that the effects on competition have been assigned too little importance. The Ministry of Finance further works on the recommendation of the Working Party to follow up the work of the banking industry on Switching Codes. Many of the challenges facing banking customers today in the exchange of banks are likely to be solved by binding labour-sharing agreements between new and old banking connections. In a letter to the Banking Authority dated 4 January 2008, the Ministry asked the supervision to follow up the work of the banking industry and to report to the Ministry on progress by the end of February 2008. I assume that the exchange activity of banking customers will increase, and that this in turn will stimulate competition between banks. I added that the Credit Authority was asked to assess the impact of the measures once they have been able to work for a while. A thorough study of the costs associated with the introduction of personal account numbers will require a great deal of time and considerable resources, and assessments could always be the subject of a new discussion. The information we now have suggests that the introduction of personal account numbers will be socially unprofitable with today's technology. This does not preclude the possibility of addressing the issues at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1038	I would like to thank you for your answer. I would like to say that it is positive that the Government has set down such a working group, and it is positive to look at other measures that can improve customer mass mobility. But I would also like to say that the Government must be aware that individual industries are very rarely cheering over measures that increase competition and put pressure on margins. It is quite obvious in this case, as in other competitions, that there are different interests between consumers on the one hand, the industry on the other, and society on the third. There are also different interests between large, high-cost banks and small, efficient Internet banks working to take up market shares. It is not satisfactory, in my opinion, that the sample, which had a large representation from the industry, which is the heaviestly represented by the large banks, merely determines that the costs are too high, when this is very poorly estimated by the sample. It is estimated that it will cost an estimated DKK 4 billion, an estimated $400 million. kr a year, but you have not been based on any investigation in the analysis itself, and we have experts who believe the opposite. Does the Government not see that there is a need to take a small round on the professional basis of the cost estimates in this analysis, which is the basis for the Government's conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1047	I can assure the representative Hansen that whether it comes to the estimates and calculations of the banking industry or other industries' estimates and calculations, they will never swallow with skin and hair either by me or by the Ministry of Finance. However, this working group’s report was being consulted, and 24 different bodies replied. Among them there were two who thought, without special reservations, that we could introduce such portability now. It was the BI and the Pension Fund Associations. All the others, including the Consumer Council and the Consumer Ombudsman etc., who share my intentions in this field, so that there were counter-conceptions. Now I want to stress that we have also created a financial portal to make it easy for ordinary customers to compare prices of banking products. The industry cooperates voluntarily to get the quality as good as possible, so we are concerned about consumer issues in this field. When it comes to embarking on a major effort to go further through the costs of introducing an option to include your account number if you switch banks, I would like to wait until we see whether the policies we are now implementing in the field of «Switching Codes» are working, that it is easier for more people to exchange banks. But it's definitely a question that it's time to come back to later.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1054	It is tempting to comment on this a little further. If you read the report submitted by the working group, you can see that they have not calculated the benefits for consumers and for customers in the banking industry of such mobility. There are very many private customers in the Norwegian banking industry, and also very many small and medium-sized enterprises that will be able to achieve lower costs if competition in this segment is improved in the banking industry. It's probably possible to make calculations that show that if you have so and so much gain per. the customer, it will also constitute a fairly large number in such accounts. The situation is that the Ministry of Finance does not have a basis for cost estimates, nor has it been specifically calculated as to what kind of gain such a moveability would have for the industry. Then my question becomes: how can the Minister of Finance think it is very comprehensive or very expensive to get an easy estimate of expenditure and income here, when the government has hardly asked any external trade unions about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1061	Unlike my predecessor from the Right, I have been concerned with just these questions, because I believe that it is, perhaps for reasons of loyalty, perhaps for practical reasons, too much loyalty between customers and banks, which may make competition in this sector too small. Now the Finansportalen will help with that. Cooperation between banks to facilitate the exchange of banks and the implementation of Switching Codes will also facilitate this. It may have been particular consideration for smaller traders who were the starting point for my involvement in this field, because they may have higher costs of switching banking connections compared to their customers. But I believe that we now both have to make sure that this work on ‘Switching Codes’ is fully pressurised and that they will come back and report on its impact, together with the fact that the Financial Portal is also established, is well in the process of getting better competition on this market. Then I will come back to any further assessment regarding the costs of being able to take their account number if you change banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1071	This question, from the representative of Vera Lyskleätt to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment and Development who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1074	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘Climate research centres have established that municipalities can contribute as much as 15 per cent to the reduction of national climate emissions through their activities and instruments. Municipalities are therefore a key player in reducing climate change emissions. Has the State Council considered how the Government will trigger the potential for climate change mitigation in the municipal sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1083	I agree that there is a great potential to trigger climate-friendly solutions and measures locally. In the follow-up to the Climate Action Communication, we are also committed to strengthening municipal climate action. The government, for example, strengthens also the reward scheme for public transport, which is one of the major emission sectors in the municipalities. The government will consider increasing the use of road pricing with localisation and would like to open up the use of tolls for the operation of collective services in municipalities. We have started work on national policy guidelines for municipal climate action. In this way, the municipalities will be required to put climate on the agenda. Through the «Livskraftige Kommuner» and «Green Energy Municipalities» programmes, over 120 municipalities in learning networks work with other municipalities on local energy and climate action. During March, all municipalities in the country will have been through Enova’s climate and energy planning course. In a short time, the Government will present proposals for a new part of the Planning and Building Act. Local authorities will be more able to demand climate-friendly solutions in spatial planning. As announced in the Climate Action Communication, the Minister for the Environment and Development has invited the twelve largest cities to cooperate to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This has been done because a large part of local emissions are related to the major urban areas, with 40-50 pst. by the population of the country. There is a high potential for emission reduction, especially from transport and buildings. The aim is to achieve commitment cooperation where the State and the municipalities make joint efforts to maximise the impact. It has also been noted that the County Council of KS has recently taken a decision that all municipalities in the country should develop climate and energy plans, and invites the State to cooperate on a reinforced initiative. This is a good starting point for getting even more speed on municipal climate work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1102	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have the following follow-up questions: In the Hadeland newspaper on 29 January, the working party rapporteur in Jevnaker, Hilde Brørby Fivelstad, states the following: ‘It has happened too little after we were appointed ‘Green Energy Municipalities’.’ Both resources and instruments were promised, but none. It is now almost a year since the Green Energy Municipalities were appointed. They were going to go ahead and show us the way. In Uppland, which was appointed Green Energy County, only six out of 26 municipalities have adopted a climate plan. At this rate, we will be in 2020 before all Norwegian municipalities have adopted a climate plan. Does not the Council of State fear that this could become a green bureaucracy more than green pilot municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1116	I am not afraid that this work will primarily be green bureaucracy, but we need, of course, strong cooperation with the municipalities to ensure that climate and energy plans are made that are not plans for disappointments, but plans for action. As a follow-up to the Climate Action Communication, we are also working on how to get national policy guidelines for municipal climate action. There will be specific climate requirements for municipalities. How to design the contents of these, we have to get back to, but of course it's very crucial that it be action-oriented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1123	I also thank you for this answer. I have one last question: The County Council of KS recently adopted an opinion asking the state to set up a national climate fund based on the Swedish model to realise local climate action. The KS opinion also calls for stronger legal and economic instruments that contribute to the further development of the municipal sector in climate policy. Does the Council of State see that a national climate fund according to the Swedish model can be a current instrument also in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1132	The question of setting up a fund or budget appropriations comes back in the context of the 2009 government budget or later budgets. The creation of a fund in this area is essentially simply to advance the commitment of appropriations to future government budgets. We need to come back to how the financial incentives towards the local government sector should be designed in this case, but we want strong cooperation between the state and municipalities precisely because the local government sector can contribute to a reduction of about 15 pst. of the total national emissions. We know that we have a difficult job ahead of us if we are to be able to prevent further heating beyond the two-degree target that we have set.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1147	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1153	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘In today’s economy on 7 February, a growing number of Norwegian industrial enterprises are moving production abroad or cutting production. Stein Lier-Hansen of Norsk Industrie states in this case that the Government will be able to facilitate the operation of industry in Norway by, inter alia, increasing the depreciation rates for investments. What measures will the Government take to facilitate the operation of industrial enterprises in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1162	In recent years, industry has had an adventurous growth. According to the recently submitted Economic Review of Norwegian Industry, growth has been 45 pst. in the last three years. It has strengthened both existing and new jobs. However, we must be prepared that growth may be slightly lower in the years ahead. As I read the article to which the representative of Korsberg refers, it is precisely good framework conditions that are the most important for industry. The government is long-term in its policy, and we want to ensure that businesses have good and stable conditions in Norway. A responsible budgetary policy, measures to promote innovation and transition and focus on knowledge development are part of the Government's contribution to facilitating continued growth. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has carried out a survey showing that Norwegian enterprises use about 2,6 pst each year. of gross domestic product to comply with the information requirements of public legislation. On the basis of this monitoring, the departments responsible for legislation will see whether the objectives of the legislation can be achieved in a less costly way. The results of that work are aimed at launching a simplification plan. In particular, the question refers to depreciation rates. Such rates shall be determined on the basis that they correspond as closely as possible to actual economic impairment. This is important for the tax base to reflect economic realities and to ensure stable and predictable tax rules for business. If there is no clear anchoring of the depreciation rates, this opens up frequent assessments of whether to increase or decrease rates, depending on, for example, the level of depreciation. cyclical considerations, the need for budgetary containment, etc. Under this principle, the Government will assess whether new information indicates that the depreciation rates and the breakdown into balancing groups should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1173	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As the article also shows, there are a number of enterprises that are either closed or are going to be closed, and it affects many communities. For us who remember a few years back, there was an enormous commitment in the 2005 election campaign, among other things. from the red-green lots, to bring Union into the Ski. There was no way how many torches were held to save those jobs -- even if there were other alternative jobs in that region. Then it was a strong red-green commitment. I have to say that I miss the same commitment now, because here it is the community that is being affected. Now Norway is a high-cost country, and we're not going to do anything about it right now, but what we're going to do is make sure that the level of expenditure for the companies is reduced. Wages and salaries are, of course, costly in this way. Does the Council see any possibility of reducing the level of taxation in the future to ensure that a moderate wage settlement is achieved without losing purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1184	With regard to the overall level of taxation and taxation, this Government has done exactly what it has said it should do. Taxes and taxes should be at the level of 2004, and they do. Within it it is possible to redistribute, so that those who have much pay more, and those who have little, pay less - but thus within the overall framework of the tax regime. Otherwise, I have to say I'm happy for the representative's commitment in terms of closure problems in the companies. Now it's going to be constant conversion. That's why we have a healthy business life -- we have adaptability. However, precisely in view of the challenges some communities face if an enterprise is closed, this government has made sure that we have reintroduced the differentiated employer fee in order perhaps to help the least nutritious parts of the country. And through the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, we have introduced a new regulatory framework to allow state aid to be granted in the event of closures of enterprises above a certain level of importance for a community. If it is below that level, we will provide money to the county council in question, which can contribute to conversion. For the same reason, we have also submitted a conversion law which is now being dealt with in Stortinget. I welcome the commitment of the representative, Mr Korsberg, and I count on support for our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1193	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Conversion is quite natural. The closure of farms is also quite natural. That's how business works. With regard to the differentiated employer’s fee, there was a unanimous increase in pressure on both the previous government and this government to obtain solutions compatible with the EEA Agreement and approved by ESA. I think there are a lot of people who are going to be allowed to share the honor. As regards the conversion law, I would like to ask the question: How many of these companies would have been avoided if the conversion law had been applied?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1204	Such conversion law, which is now under discussion in Stortinget, is not such as to require the public to decide whether or not to reduce an enterprise. What it does is to ensure that if an enterprise has problems - either to be laid down or has other significant reductions in staffing - is able, first of all, to enter into a discussion in which they have the opportunity to establish a new ownership and, where appropriate, to take over. I would also like to remind you, since the Union case was mentioned, that the position there was that someone else should be taken over. It was not a mandate for the Union to move on. Secondly, the local community in question - the municipality - and the county municipality will be notified at an early stage, so that if the company is not able to save, the whole instrument will have to be in place immediately to make good changes. That's the idea behind the law on conversion. It is right, as the representative says, and as I have so far said many times, that we never get into a situation where there are no business changes, but we can contribute politically to making the transitions good rather than difficulties in local communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1216	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘On the traffic-laden route Storenes-Tangvall on the E39 through Søgne municipality, work is started on middle parts. The work will be completed in October/November 2008, but now it turns out that the middle part will cover only half of the distance. The most accident-affected part will then be left. The promise of the middle parts of the section came when it became clear that a new four-field road did not arrive until 2020. Is this in line with the Government's wish for road safety, and what will the Council of State do in this matter?"
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1225	I am aware of the serious accident situation on this part of the E39. Pending major expansion, the State Road Administration has seen progress in targeted road safety work in the form of the establishment of midway and midpointings. On the 2 km distance between Rosseland and Storenes, a pilot project with a slight centre line was opened in 2007. The experience after six months of operation is positive. It is now possible to set up a steel truck on the next 1.8 km west of Storenes, and the work will be completed until the fall. It would then be that the installation of a steel truck of 1.2 km up to Tingvall, and I see the need for repair also of this stretch. The need is expected to cost just under 20 million. kr. The line is not a priority in the action programme until 2009, which was established in 2005 on the basis of the 2004 Stortinget NTP Decision, where the red-green parts were seven for one billion dollars more annually than the existing government entered. According to the plan, this is due to start-up in the period from 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1232	I thank you for your answer. Search is a municipality with a high population growth. And it's Tangvall and not Tingvall that's close there. But it's a nice place in the South, which is worth visiting. The challenge for Search is that there is a lot of commuting in terms of job and school against Kristiansand along this route, and especially that distance has had a very large traffic increase. In 2001, we could count 11,400 cars, in 2007 we could count 15,800. The work started will make the last part, which is the most accident-affected, now stand without the middle parts. The local population feels incredibly uncertain about this. Does the Council of State understand the desperate feeling that this pitfall stops before the most accident-affected part of the road, and that it does not get railings?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1241	It is not difficult for the Council of State to understand that people become insecure when they are going to appear on high-traffic roads that they do not feel are sufficiently secure. I'm glad you've done what's been done, and for what's being done on this route. It is one of the routes that both the State Road Service and I as State Council have planned in relation to the further planning. Of course, if there are possibilities for starting up this route before 2010, the budget for 2009 will depend on what framework it will have. But, as I said, according to the plans, it will start from 2010. I feel that it is right to be honest about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1248	I thank you for your answer. This is not about a lot of money, and we in the South have been used to our road being built in pieces, and that one has taken one now and then. It was the previous government that started building out quite a number of pieces of the southern road. But the middle part doesn't have to reach Tangvall. This is $20 million. NOK, if we calculate the costs of the project for the middle part that is being built now, and I think it will be a very pressure from South Africa to get it, when we don't get the quadruple road that we want, for quite a long time. The NTP numbers are not clear reading in that case. The part that we're talking about is 1.2 kilometers. It's about an incredibly unfortunate road, and I'm asking the Council of State to look at this again with the last part, preferably in connection with the revised national budget, but at least in connection with next year's budget. Traffic safety is one of the most important things we can work with in relation to the road, and this will be an incredibly good tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1257	I note the representative's commitment both to road safety and to this special route from Tangvall to Storenes. I'm very pleased with the commitment that Dagrun Eriksen shows in this matter, because it's important that we have engaged both big-time politicians and local and regional politicians who can breathe us in the back. So, of course, I also want us to complete this distance as fast as possible, as well as some other sections that are also waiting and going to be carried out. The government has a strong focus on road safety. We have increased the permissions in line with NTP. Fortunately, we have had more road safety done than we could have done, and I will, of course, take Eriksen's commitment and remind myself of it in the forthcoming budgetary procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1267	The question is as follows: ‘In the cities of Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim, various rail-based collective projects are being worked on. In Stavanger, the urban railway is planned to partially use the railway’s driving path. In Bergen, the city railway is built on its own highway and the NSB has plans for trains to Flesland Airport. Trondheim and Trøndelag continue to reduce travel time by train between Trondheim and Steinkjer. Is the Council of State willing to take a closer look at State project financing in a coordinated and forced development of railway-based collective schemes in these three cities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1276	In the introduction I would like to point out that the projects mentioned in the question are of a very different nature. In Stavanger, a combination path with partial use of railway and partial new track is considered. This is at an early stage, and there are currently no plans for funding. In Bergen is a separate urban railway under construction. This is funded within the Bergen programme with tolls and alternative use of rickshaws. The railway project between Trondheim and Steinkjer is a purely railway project. The government assumes that road and rail investments should continue to be cleared according to the current budgetary principle. I point out that the Government has increased the framework for railway investment in line with the NTP Decision, which represents a growth of about 50 pst. in 2007 compared to 2006. In 2008, the increase was 5.4 pst. compared to 2007. This is an historic lift and shows that the government party follows up in the position of which a decision was taken in opposition. On the other hand, the questioner’s party was united with the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party on the NTP level in 2004, but in its alternative state budget no - still in opposition - did not stand by the decision and promises of the voters, but cut railway investments with a total of approximately DKK 6 billion in 2006, 2007 and 2008. The government prioritises the funds to ensure the most rational planning, prioritisation and progress of the transport project. Otherwise, I would like to point out that the Government will return to Stortinget with an evaluation and evaluation of OPS and other proposals that have been raised by the transport bill in the plan proposal for NTP for 2010-2019. In view of this, the Ministry of Transport does not consider specific arrangements for project financing of railway-based collective schemes in cities. Such development will be based on own arrangements for financing on a case-by-case basis. The financing arrangements will include: depend on the nature of the investments and on the financing solutions that are available locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1285	Let me first complete the description of the Progress Party's policy by reminding you that we have repeatedly proposed an infrastructure fund that will provide the railway with significant investment resources. It is such that the overview of the policy of the Progress Party probably has the best of its own. So to the answer, for which I thank you, which is a very disappointing answer. I want to go back to the matter, namely to make forward-looking solutions, but that require a coordinating hand. Just what the Council of State answers, that these projects are quite different and have come a different way, shows what you lose if you don't have the coordinating hand. This is a government that says they will bet on both rail and public transport and are engaged in good solutions in the big cities. Here there is a great opportunity through state coordination and also state project funding to put in place good collective solutions, based on railway or rail cooperation in these three major cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1292	The government has a good dialogue with the towns mentioned here, both in the case of the Bergen programme, in the case of the double track in Stavanger and the city track, which is connected to that double track. The same applies, of course, to the railway line to be put in place by Trondelag. So the government definitely has a coordinating role also when it comes to funding, as a major advantage is the alternative use of national means to finance this together with local sources of funding and tolls. In the case of the note on coordination, it must of course also be stated that public transport, as defined, is initially a task for county municipalities. As you can see, it's also important for us, at a time when we're working on adding more tasks to the state, not taking away those tasks, but working closely with the cities and states about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1299	I would like to thank you again for your answer. Of course, cooperation is important, and we should. However, what is often lacking in Norwegian transport policy is that some people take a primary responsibility and a main task in order to get good, coordinated solutions in place. This applies precisely in the three cities described. It's true that the projects have not come as far and that they have different character. What is a common denominator for all three is that they can connect rail, airport and metropolitan areas in a good way, and then we're into one of the other important targets of the new national transport plan, namely to get the traffic nodal point well in place. My tip to the Council of State, if she still rejects project funding, is to try to drive this forward as environmental projects. That's what it is. It seems that the money is a lot looser for this government when it comes to environmental action. This with rail-based public transport in the big cities will be a good environmental effort that might release some money.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1306	When it comes to environmental action in the big cities, we also have very good cooperation with the cities. There is good dialogue, both from the Ministry of Transport and from other departments that have ownership of that issue. I see that time is working for what the Council of State has worked for, whether it's about cow pricing or other measures, which, together with increased efforts on public transport from both the Government and local authorities, will help us get a more environmentally friendly development of our cities. They're getting better at living in, and that's our goal. In this way, urban development is improved, which is particularly important both for urban dwellers and for those who visit cities. We're going to continue with the close cooperation, and I think that the sense is at least as well local as central, and that the governance of this field would like to continue to be local, but of course we should be responsible for contributing both financially and when it comes to planning solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1316	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, many animals, especially elk, have been killed by trains and cars this winter. This is a big problem in many ways. How will the Council of State contribute to a significant reduction in the number of such accidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1325	The large number of moose deposits in Hedmark can not only be a consequence of the animals being executed, but is also a road safety problem. In the period 1998–2005, 22 people were killed or seriously injured in electric gourmets on the roads in Hedmark. The number of elf runs increases in long winters by a lot of snow. Inductions also increase with increasing elk stock, increasing traffic volume and increasing running speed. Hedmark is the largest elk in the country and has several passageways with a lot of traffic. Therefore, there will be many conflicts between the game and traffic. The state road system has implemented many measures to reduce the size of the hatches. In the last seven to eight years, the cleared forest along 170 kilometres of highway in the most advanced municipalities on the Hedmark and in the Østerdalen. Here the vegetation is removed 10-12 meters on each side of the road. In cooperation with the Landowners’ Associations, municipalities and the Railway Agency, the State Road Administration provides annual support for feeding activities in Stor-Elvdal and Rendalen to keep the elk away from the traffic lanes. The state road system has focused this winter on the management of the elk dam in Hedmark and raised questions as to whether there is too much elk. Along rv. 3 in the Østerdalen many road users have a challenging running culture with a high speed level. Speed limit has now been reduced from 90 to 80 km/h on 80 km/h on the national road and on individual routes the winter speed limit of 70 km/h has been introduced. A programme for the evaluation of measures to reduce wild fauna and flora is also under way in the country’s road system. In this programme, they will examine the effects of a range of measures. This applies, inter alia, to: game fences, sieving, signage, game reflectors, sound, odour, feeding and information to road users. It also includes game transitions and setbacks. The programme will last in 2008 and 2009. In the case of the Railway Agency, since 2000, they have had a focus on prevention measures involving fences, breakage and removal of vegetation. There are also snowmobile loops running so that the animals can follow them instead of walking along the railway line. In addition, reflexes, game mirrors and feeding have been tried. The number of animals that were introduced decreased in the period after 2000, but has again shown an increasing trend in recent years. In the light of these developments, it is difficult to assess whether the measures taken are adequate. Weather and grazing conditions, as well as the size of the game population, are factors that are of great importance to the number of game spills and with which it is difficult for the Railway Works to do something. The railway works and the train operators, together with local authorities, have common interests and are actively delimiting the number of animals on the train and reducing the suffering of the animals on the train. Efforts to reduce animal losses, both by road and rail, will continue. It is important that all parties involved actively work to find solutions that can help reduce this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1344	I thank the Council of State for a full and good answer, where it was mentioned how much has been done, and a little about the plans ahead, which I understood. As the Council of State said, it is true that Hedmark is the largest moose state in the country. Just to explain a little bit about it: within an hour a few days ago, six moose were killed in Hedmark, four of the trains and two of the cars. It says a little bit about how big this problem is, both in the case of animals that are killed, animals that suffer, material damage and people who get involved in it. When six animals are killed in one hour--it's pretty strong-- it doesn't help so much what's done. My question is, what are we going to do to bring down this number? A number of measures were mentioned by the Council of State, but these measures must now be taken. There have never been as many accidents in January as now this year in Hedmark. What will the Council of State do now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1353	As I did well in my main response, there are a number of actions that have already been taken. I’m not talking about actions that will come up on time, but actions that are already in place and that are actively involved. That traffic is increasing, that moose population is increasing, and that speed is increasing, is probably the three main reasons why we also see that the number of hatches is increasing. Then do something with the speed. The moose file has to be evaluated. There is no such council, but it must be done as well. As I said, when it comes to speed and stock, something is done about it. Of course, we also need to look at traffic growth. To fence in all the way is impossible--and to fence in is the most effective measure to prevent these openings! But we simply can't do that along all of our roads, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1364	I thank you once again for the reply from the Council of State. This is a big problem. It's probably true, as the Council of State says, that we can't solve this just by pinching our fingers. But that we have to do something, and that we have to do it quickly, is quite clear, because there are many sufferings here -- in many different ways. The council did not mention anything about this in terms of tightening up the responsibilities of road users - at least I did not see it that way. It's a duty to report, and there's a lot of animals that are hit that are not reported. Here I think the council must be a little bit stronger. I also think she needs to be stronger when it comes to contacting local people and acquaintances. And also: I think you have to train staff to kill the animals that are being damaged. A while ago, the weapons on trains for train crew were removed. Looks like they're going to get them back. That's good. There are many measures, such as: feeding grounds - so that in order to obtain food the animals do not have to move towards where it is broken - more transitions, signs and information campaigns. Some people talk about that it might not be good to salt so much, because salt attracts animals, etc. We have a big job here in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1377	In my main response I include both game hunters, sidings, signage, game reflector, sound, odor and feeding stations - and better information to road users. These are actions that have already been initiated. Despite these measures, we still see that the number of accidents is increasing. Of course, it is important that you give a message about it when the accident first occurs. Bilistane is obliged to do that -- it's going to tell each of us when we get into such a situation. I myself have been in the unfortunate situation of driving in a deer calf - in the West we have deer, which is a very increasing problem - and the first thing I did was to contact wild animals. This is something that we may of course have an information case about, so that you can clarify the more clearly, but it is in the law that we as drivers should have learned when we take a certificate. I am very open to a dialogue - including with Bredvold - about how we can get down the oeuvre. It is important both for the animals and, not least, for all the human beings involved, with the human costs it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1388	Question 12 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1395	It is a pleasure to be able to ask the Minister for Children and Gender Equality the following questions: ‘The rescue measure.no is a network of professionals, politicians and individuals from different social arenas that supports the requirement that child response to violence, abuse and care failure should be intensified and expanded radically. The action also requires governments to provide significantly increased resources for this work. Will the Council of State comply with the demands of the rescue operation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1404	I am pleased with the commitment that lies behind the establishment of the website, and I agree with the objectives outlined. There is no doubt that we need and will need to increase further efforts to prevent, detect, report on, protect and help children and young people who are exposed to violence, abuse and care failures. That's what the Government has stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. We need to get to know those who directly meet the children, whether they're in kindergarten, at school, in child protection, in health centres or in other facilities. Increased knowledge gives ability, courage and willingness to reveal and help. The government’s new action plan against violence in close relations, ‘turning point’, has several competences. One such measure is the project ‘Children living with violence in the family’, in which one of the website’s promoters is employed. The aim of the project is to strengthen skills and develop methods and measures in the field of child protection and in other services with which child protection cooperates. I have also set ‘violence against children’ as one of several themes at nine regional conferences on child protection in 2008. Several family protection offices currently have the competence to assist with, inter alia: traumatisation of children and siblings who have witnessed/exposed violence and who may provide group treatment for children. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress has launched a study on the testing of an American treatment model for children exposed to sexual abuse and violence. Last but not least, we must reach the children and young people themselves, their parents and the general public through various instruments. I'll mention a few: The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice in 2008, will establish an emergency telephone for children and adults. This will give children and young people the opportunity to tell about their situation. In addition, it will provide adults with an opportunity to report their concerns to children. Reported concerns shall then be followed up locally by the ordinary auxiliaries. I look forward to getting this measure in place. I would also like to mention that we are going to open three children's houses during 2008. In 2007 two children's homes were opened. I would like to strengthen the prevention of parents with a minority background through parental guidance in the reception of asylum and in other municipalities. I would like to mention that the Children's Convention Forum, such as is composed of Red Barna and Norway’s Red Cross, which has recently received funding from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality for an information and awareness campaign in 2008. This is aimed at both the auxiliaries and the general public. In conclusion, I will, of course, follow this area carefully and assess what measures are necessary and at the same time appropriate to strengthen the provision of services to children. Further strengthening of the area will be addressed in future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1427	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There are many good measures today, and that is good. But at the same time, I want to develop some of the experiences I've had myself. I have visited many municipalities. Last week I visited the Psychological Prevention Team in Asker, which focuses on helping children and young people with complex and mental problems. I've visited Kristiansund Municipality and Child Protection there, and they describe some of the challenges of child protection. And I know that many people who work in child protection want to do a good job, and they help a lot. But the challenges are that there are too few resources. The reality description is given about the measures that exist, which sounds very good, but for those who work at the health centre, and for those who work with child protection and various measures in the municipalities, everyday life means that resources do not go to help the most disadvantaged children. They feel that there's too little attention around it. What will the Council of State do with the lack of resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1436	I'm closely monitoring what's going on in child protection in different areas. We don't deal with budgetary issues through this exchange of words, but I'm very aware that we have to follow closely what's going on at the municipal level. The measures we have outlined are not a strengthening of the economy, although they are also in relation to the children's homes. However, they will help to increase the attention at municipal level, in view of the need for extended child protection measures for children. I follow that closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1443	I thank the Council of State again. I also hope that the Council of State will cooperate with the various departments, because when it comes to building up knowledge, for example. in the training of pre-school teachers, in the training of child protection educators and for those who are teachers, it is important that one exploits the resources that are available, also in order to strengthen knowledge. There are many who are involved in kindergartens and in schools that are insecure when it comes to statements of concern, which are uncertain about the procedure and which also seem to be very burdensome. This means that children who might have been notified will not. It is very good that one has many plans, but it is very important that one of the practical policies makes the interaction work, and that one listens to grassroots, because both foster parents and child protection workers provide direct firsthand knowledge of what can be better. We still have a big job to do there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1452	I'm not interpreting this as a direct question, but as a sign that me and the representative Molvær Grimstad have exactly the same sense of reality. As regards anchoring and including these themes in continuing education, this will require a legislative change. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge. Otherwise, I can assure the representative that I work closely together, among other things. with the Ministry of Health and Welfare and with the Ministry of Knowledge in view of looking at what can be done specifically to contribute to, for example: the number of messages is increasing. So I have full attention in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1459	Question 14 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1465	I have a question to the Council of State Sylvia Brustad: «The hospital Østfold is now cutting into positions in the diabetes team, which means that the offers in Halden and Moss are closed. Patients are transferred to Sarpsborg, where manning is also reduced. The order document says that the diabetes teams need to be strengthened, but at the Hospital Østfold it is cut by 25 pst. This will undoubtedly affect the patients. Prevention, guidance and treatment of latecomplications are some of the tasks that are being reduced. Will the Council of State ask the hospital to maintain this well-functioning department?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1474	Sickness about the hospital budget this year is far better than it has been in many years -- in fact, the best that has been given for a single year -- is no doubt that many of the health care businesses are facing significant migration challenges in order to get the economy organized, in order to use a very simple expression. In that process, changes in patient provision may occur. As a rule, there is a change in the division of tasks or in the organisation of the offer, without making the offer to patients worse for that reason. I am aware that the balance requirement set by the Stortinget also poses major challenges for health companies, but I assume that the necessary adjustments are made in line with the overall leadership and requirements of quality, activity and economy through the order document and business meeting. Health South-East RHF informs us that the Sjukehuset Østfold has a well-developed offer to the diabetic patients in its county. The supply to adults with diabetes includes a multidisciplinary team in Sarpsborg, as the interviewer also knows. Currently there are 4.4 positions for diabetes nurses in this team. In addition, two supervisors specialising in endocrinology and two clinical nutrition physiologists participate in the team. They cooperate with the car surgeon, orthoped and orthopaedic engineer as necessary. In addition, there is a separate offer for children. From Health South-East I have been informed that the Sjukehuset Østfold has reduced the number of jobs for diabetic nurses at the Sarpsborg team to 3.4, i.e. with one - this as part of the work to adapt the operation to the framework. The offer in Halden ceases and will be continued through the team in Sarpsborg. The hospital in Moss does not have their own diabetes nurse, and they have received services from the team in Sarpsborg. I have been informed that patients with diabetes from all over the county will still receive a sound medical offer, but that some patients will have a slightly longer route. Employees affected by this conversion will be offered vacancies at the Sjukehuset Østfold, where their competence in the field of diabetes could be fully or partially exploited. In the follow-up to the 2008 Mission Document, Health South-East will assess the need to review the supply of diabetes patients to all health professionals, in order to ensure an equivalent offer to patients throughout the region and – as a matter of principle – in all counties. I assume that the Board of Directors of the Hospital Eastfold and the Board of Health South-East will continue the work of developing the supply of diabetic patients in line with the Soria-Moria Declaration and National Strategy for the Diabetes Area 2006-2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1487	It wasn't something I didn't know about, that was revealed in the answer from the Council of State. What I was very concerned about was whether the council thought her assignment was done, when you cut a diabetic team instead of strengthening it. The hospital says this is a very good team. That's right, that's right, but that's not good enough. When it's a year waiting for patients to get in, it's too long waiting. Many of the patients have already waited two to three years before applying to come in. It is not that the offer is too good. Destruction of this team by removing one position now means that patients will receive a reduced offer. Communication director Erlandsen says the offer is good enough. Those who need it the most are treated. That's right, treatment -- but that's the prevention thing to bet on, and it's been repeated many times by the Council of State. Does the Council of State not believe that the prevention of late complications is really becoming important in the future? Isn't it important to take care of that role, not just to deal with late complications?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1496	I believe it is essential to prevent so many people from becoming ill with diabetes 2. We know that a good part of this is related to the way we live. That's why we also have everything to do with trying to get more people moving, eating healthier and trying other preventive measures to prevent people from getting sick. Today, about 120,000 people have diabetes 2. That's why we have to try to prevent so many people from getting sick. That's point number. 1st@item: inlistbox Secondly, it is said that regardless of whether you live in Eastfold, Hedmark or elsewhere, you should have a good deal of treatment - it is the treatment you need there and then, but it is also seaworthy to prevent late complications. I have received insurance from Health South-East that diabetes patients in Eastfold too will have a proper medical offer - it should just be lacking - but that the situation is that someone will get a little longer travel route. The government is very serious about its diabetes strategy, and I remind you again that the board of Health South-East along with the board of the Hospital Eastfold will go through it to ensure equivalent offers throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1505	I thank you for your answer. I want to remind the Council of State that we spend $10 billion on diabetes every year. Seven of these billions are going to treat late complications. We aim to expose all the undiagnosed, and the goal of revealing them is to provide them with good information and teach them how to live with the disease in order to avoid late complication. This group will always come in the last row if you're going to take care of those who need it the most, those who are sickest, and those who have already developed complications. If this is done with undiagnosed findings, is it not important that they receive competent guidance so that they can avoid late complications? Does the Council of State mean that it should be up to the hospitals to assess all the time? Does the Council of State think that there will be good diabetic teams that can catch up with them, which can fulfill that role, without there being earmarked grants or clear guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1517	I have no information to suggest that the diabetes team in Sarpsborg will be destroyed because if there is a position less right there - it will be used for the Eastfold Hospital for the benefit of diabetes patients in other ways. The most important thing about prevention is to get access to people before they come to the specialist health service, to make sure that we detect them in the school health service or in the health centre, i.e. in different types of lowthreshold services. And I also want to say, I'm not a stranger to try out new models to get access to the undiagnosed even earlier. I fully agree with the representative that this is a major challenge. All should receive good treatment, whether in Eastfold or in other counties. It is of great importance to avoid late complications, which the representative is concerned about. There is a lot of this that can be prevented by the learning and mastering centres that we are now building up in all parts of the country. Also advice, tips, guidance and follow-up on how to deal with the situation is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1529	I have this question to the Council of State: ‘We have many serious and shocking examples of elderly and sick people who have been expelled from Ullevål University Hospital without being fully investigated. This is what the Nordre Aker City Supervisor said. The reality of such a description does not contribute to ensuring the dignity of the elderly with complex disease images. What will the Council of State do to improve cooperation between state and local health services for sick elderly people in the final phase of life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1538	Sick elderly people will need health care and help from many. Local and specialist health services must together form a treatment network around the individual user, so interaction must work. The situation described in Nordre Aker Budstikke, about the interaction between Ullevål University Hospital and the city of Nordre Aker in Oslo, is not what we want it to be. Sick elderly people have exactly the same health care rights as everyone else. It is a very important goal to facilitate a comprehensive offer, so that sick elderly people can live a good life with the best possible function for as long as possible. That's why it's getting a better interaction between the primary health service and the specialist health service that's one of the most important things we should do in the future, as I see it. That is why the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Municipal Council of the Municipalities signed last June a three-year national framework agreement on health and care interaction. An important purpose of this agreement is that it should lead to the conclusion of local cooperation agreements between all municipalities and all health care establishments. How are we going to deal with the situation when a person is going out of a hospital, back to the municipality, and can't go to his own home right away? In that framework agreement, we have highlighted two areas where there is a particular need for good interaction. This applies to maritime health services, and to recording and printing practices, where we see that there are challenges. We strongly recommend that procedures for recording and printing practices between municipalities and specialist health services be described in the local agreements - i.e. that agreements be concluded on how this should be done. Who's responsible for the hospital? Who in the municipality is responsible for going out and out of the hospital? In this way, we can ensure both good information flows, which are good and essential for good quality of treatment, and predictable and good treatment processes for those concerned. Strengthening interaction with primary health services has always been one of my most important governance messages to regional health businesses. It now begins to bear fruit in parts of the country. Interactions are being developed across the country, for example: in the fields of competence development, health care provision where primary and specialist health services cooperate, so-called intermediate units, with good results, and mobile teams, the fact that a person goes from hospital to hospital or where the elderly are - to mention some of the measures that are important to the sick and elderly who need it. I would also like to mention a system called the practical consultation system, which simply means that a regular or other health professional from the primary health service is working closely together, is in a hospital department in a hospital. There has been a great success, because the main task of this coordinator is to help the patient through healthcare, so that he or she just experiences a continuous treatment chain. The vast majority of hospitals have now set up such posts for practical consultants. I recently received feedback from the regional health companies that 133 people are now working in this way. It's impressive, and I think it's a great example of a good interaction action - and we're expanding it by 20 more during this year. With regard to the concrete cooperation between Ullevål University Hospitals and the urban areas in particular, Health South-East has informed me that there are several measures in progress to strengthen interaction. There are now established permanent cooperation forums between the hospital and the urban areas: a cooperation forum at administrative level, and one at professional level. I am informed that the forum that meets at administrative level is now to meet more frequently, precisely because there is a great need to discuss how to find common arrangements. It has also been decided to organise a joint professional day to discuss how this should be resolved for selected patient groups. On that academic day, the goal is to create standard patient profiles for patients who are soaking up the hospital, and who need services from Ullevål University Hospital, the hospitals and home care. The cooperation work is well anchored in overall agreements between the Municipality of Oslo and the sectoral hospitals. It is also the subject of a wide-ranging work group dealing with the provision of local hospitals in the capital area. And it's also, of course, part of the big process that is now in progress in terms of the capital and in connection with the merger of Health South-East. I can assure you that interaction will be a very central area in the future. I fully agree with Mr Dørum that this is essential. To a large extent, it is about supporting local partners so that they can agree on good practices and joint interaction actions. Sick elderly people are particularly dependent on this working well. Sense if it's still easy to point to improvement possibilities -- and there are many places in the country -- it's also nice to see that in many places the interaction work begins to bear fruit. It is of great benefit and joy to the patients, and we must do so throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1555	I would like to thank you for a thorough answer. It's now approx. 16 years ago, a former state physicist in Oslo Fredrik Mellbye and a colleague of the former county-level player in Hedmark stopped me and said, "There is an age apartheid practice in Norway. With this aim in mind, older people often become statistics, and because the disease picture is complex, it is not met in the way it should. Now the state council has shown different ways to do it. Let me ask this one question like this: What will the Council of State do with what she said in her post, that she will follow with particular regard to entry and printing, that there are fixed forums in Oslo? What will she do to make us not feel that someone should be able to say that we are practicing age apartheid in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1562	It shouldn't be like that. Sick elderly people are to be treated in the same way as absolutely all other people in our country. Just let me make it clear! Today I come from a two-day seminar with all my directors in the regional health companies throughout the country and the top leaders at administrative level. One of the issues we've spent quite a lot of time on is how we're going to get into this interaction that many people have been talking about for years. I just want to give another good example of how it can be done with very simple grip. Ahus, the University Hospital in Akershus, has established a contact telephone to which all hospitals in Akershus can call. When e.g. Harry Hansen, 89 years old, is in the hospital and needs help, and they call the hospital for help and help. Then Harry Hansen very often escapes being sent to the hospital, but can get help where he is, either because the staff is getting professionally filled up, or because doctors can move out. This is also a very good way to interact, which we have to have more of. We're on it, but we're not on it. I will promise the representative that I will follow this very closely, and the government will also come back with further proposals over not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1571	I see the involvement of the Council of State. Then I have to be specific. Let me now take from what's the situation in a big city like Oslo. There are not always people in Oslo who have a network. It may be that they are actually all alone. That means that the pressures and challenges for those to deal with will increase. I know it well through different parts of my life. Now the Council of State has shown that, for example, between Ullevål University Hospital and Cities are fixed forums, both administratively and professionally. Does the Council of State see any kind of reporting, some kind of checkout, some kind of supervision, to see what can happen through these forums so that we won't get close to what I've described as age apartheid? As I said in my question to the Council of State, we must not get into the situation that there is no dignity for the elderly with complex disease images in the final phase of life. Does the Council of State see a way in which an active person can check out these patients? I ask the question because other government councils in other contexts have just chosen this slightly active form of supervision, so that we are faced with the questions that we are now dealing with in this questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1578	Yes, I can assure the representative, Dørum, that I am on the verge of this too. It's probably right, as the representative says, that there are a lot of people who are lonely, alone, who don't have networks. Unfortunately, we also see part of the overview of drugs and neuromedicines, that many older people also use it. I think it might be related to some of the representatives that Mr. Dørum brings up here. So there are many warning signals that we should take seriously. I don't like the form of supervision. We have a health reform that is the way it is, and I am an avid defender of it. What I can assure the representative is that I have a good dialogue with Health South-East. We have regular meetings, not least now in connection with the capital process, and there will be interaction as a central theme - it is a central theme. I'm also going to have a meeting with the management of the Municipality of Oslo, where this will be a topic, within not very long time. I can also inform you that follow-up of cooperation agreements, strengthening the use of individual plans, the day of the epi-crisis discharge, and strengthening the practice consultancy system is one of the things Health South-East is now working on to do even better for people living in this part of the country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1588	‘Norwegian Agricultural Cooperation recently announced that there is a significant shortage of beef, sheep and lamb meat in the Norwegian food market to meet demand. It is estimated that this deficit will increase further in the coming years, and that once again you will have the same situation in milk. Will the Council of State ensure that legislation is simplified so that Norwegian food producers themselves can have access to their own production and use the production capacity on the farm?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1595	First of all, I would like to point out that I am wondering about the representative's claim that milk could be subverted in Norway. There is no under-covering of milk in Norway, nor is there anything to suggest that it will be. The measures taken in the last half of 2007 have worked as intended and stocks for white cheese have been built up. As regards consumption in 2007, and preliminary figures for 2008, we see that demand for human milk is stabilising and that consumption of cheese and other dairy products is on the way up, but there is, as I said, a highly manageable situation on the milk market. In order to avoid overproduction and to achieve a regional distribution of production, it is necessary to continue the quota system for milk. However, I am prepared to take a discussion on how we can increase the flexibility of the milk quota system, strengthen individual farms and increase the equal treatment of single farms in milk production with co-farms. In the case of meat of bovine animals and sheep/lam, the forecasts show that Norwegian production in 2008 will remain stable with 2007. The normal increase in consumption has been 2-3 pst in the last few years. per 1 % years for cattle, which is in and on a large scale an increase, but nevertheless for 2007 we see a much higher increase - a sales increase of 6 pst. This means that production needs to increase significantly in the coming years, because demand is increasing. Bovine and ovine animal husbandry are biological productions where it takes time to extend the production base. The success of the rough-feed productions by meeting domestic demand is crucial for me - not least in a district policy context. Both in terms of housing and employment objectives and in order to maintain the cultural landscape around the country, it is important to be able to use the grazing animals for that purpose. I therefore take the market situation for cattle and sheep/lam very seriously. That is exactly why I also gave these sectors so much priority in the previous agricultural settlement that the gross income of cattle and sheep producers was increased by about 25 000 and 35 000 kroner per year respectively. annual work. This is an increase far beyond what has been achieved in the last few years' agricultural agreements. The difference in the production and consumption of meat that we have seen develop in recent years, I believe, has three main explanations: Norwegian cows milk more than before. That means there are fewer cows, which in turn means that fewer calves are born, which in turn provides the basis for fewer meat animals. Consumption has increased significantly. Only in the last year has the consumption of beef in Norway increased by 6 pst., pigmeat has increased by 7 pst., and poultry meat has increased by 13 pst. in the last year. It's formidable numbers. We've had a weak income development in the industry. From 1995 to 2005, the average income growth was 2.75 p.m. annual. It has, among other things, led to a lack of investment in the meat sector. As I said in my reply last Wednesday to the representative Foster violence regarding recruitment, the most important measure for us to have farmers here in the country is to contribute to good framework conditions in the industry through income opportunities, capital access and good welfare arrangements. It was important for me to prioritize it when I started my work, precisely because we have had a ten-year period of extremely low income development in agriculture. It was then necessary to facilitate a forward trend in income that points in a different direction and is better than what was the case before we took over. I am therefore very pleased that the forecasts for production in 2008 look better than for a long time. At the same time, as I said, demand is increasing even more than production. This growth in demand must be seen by agriculture as a major opportunity to increase the volume of production and the income base of industry. Demand growth from 2006 to 2008 has a gross value of DKK 1.3 billion at the target price point. It is therefore safer than in the long term to increase production, the risk of price losses is smaller, and the competitiveness of the outside world has improved due to price developments. With regard to the structure of cattle and sheep/lam production, a number of measures to stimulate production in both small and large uses were implemented during the last year’s agricultural settlement. Developments in production suggest that these instruments are now in the process of functioning. However, I would like to consider further adaptations to the instruments in the context of the spring agricultural settlement. The objective will be to stimulate production while ensuring balanced development between districts and between major and minor uses. This is an objective which cannot be achieved with the agricultural policy priorities of the representative Fostervold. In its draft budget for 2008, the representative Fostervold and the Progress Party proposed to reduce the agricultural agreement by DKK 7.1 billion. That would have weakened the economy by $122,000 per year. agricultural mills. If it had happened so wrong that the Progress Party had received a majority for its budget proposal in Stortingen last autumn, we would now have a crisis in cattle and sheep meat industry in Norway. Production would have fallen, and the willingness to invest would have been gone. Yes, at the moment Norwegian meat producers believe that the agricultural policy of the Progress Party can be implemented, we will see that investments and production will be greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1629	The Council of State is once again trying the trick of taking action on the policy of the Progress Party. But now the Center Party in different governments has been in position for very, very many years, and we see that developments in agriculture are worrying in many areas. The situation on the world market makes it a positive averaging and opportunities for Norwegian agriculture, but I don't think that's because of the politics of the Council of State. But when you charge Norwegian consumers with a kind of state contract that involves costs of over 20 billion kroner per person. years, one would think that one would be able to get to a production that would make sure that we are seamount perhaps especially on the meat side. So we haven't done that. But in the posts of the Council of State, I think I heard a kind of guarantee that we should be able to be marine-supplied in meat production. Therefore, I just want to ask the Council of State: can he explain the Government's objective according to the agricultural settlement, and whether we are going to get self-produced meat in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1636	In fact, unlike the Progress Party, this government and I have the ambition to cover up the Norwegian consumption of meat with domestic production. As far as I know, the Progress Party wants to reduce border protection around Norwegian production. This leads to a reduction in Norwegian production, a reduction in the proportion of Norwegian goods to Norwegian consumers. Then I used approx. 10 pst. of my post to refer to the Advance Party. I find that the representative Fostervold thinks it is too much to use 10 pst. by an article on it. I'll take note of it. As regards guarantees in relation to further production, I said that in the case of milk, I am absolutely sure that we will not have any undercoverage in Norway in the future. We have production capacity to cover any increase in consumption, if it comes. As far as meat is concerned, we have had a sub-coverage that has evolved over very many years. We now see that the curves are turning around that way, that the will to increase production is greater than what it has been before, and we see that the downward curve, for example. in the case of sheep/lam, now flattening. That's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1645	The representative does not suggest that there is a positive trend in agriculture, but the question is, how long do we have to correct that deficit? What is the concern if we have a permanent import into Norwegian shops is that the Norwegian consumer is going to be so used to buying imported meat that the argument that Norwegian meat is the best, and Norwegian meat is the best quality, is being diluted. That's the background for me to address this question. When can we expect to take in the gap between Norwegian meat production and consumer demand for meat? We are in a trend that will lead to more and more permanent imports of meat, i.e. consumers are used to seeing foreign meat in Norwegian shops. This may lead to dilution of the agricultural objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1652	I understand the question, but I do not understand why the question comes from the representative Fostervold. I think point one should be that the representative Fostervold is making sure to rewrite his batch program and not aim to reduce border protection around Norwegian food production and thus to facilitate the strengthening of these import channels, that there has just been an increase in imports of meat coming. The agricultural policy of the Progress Party is a recipe for an increase in the proportion of foreign meat in Norwegian shops, and Fostervold is on the floor of the Stortinget and is concerned about what will be the consequences of the Progress Party's policy. It's completely impossible to understand that context. But my concern is significant in relation to just this. The most important thing we can do, and as I also said in my first post, is to increase the profitability of meat production -- supply and demand, how profitable it is to produce a product. I believe that will lead to an increase in the offer. Now that we have put more money into meat production, it is an incentive to increase production in the future. I have also said that the agricultural settlement this year is going to be a continuation of the agricultural settlement that was last year. This still means increasing focus on incentives to increase meat production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-13.ana.ud1703e1661	So the last question has been answered. Today's map is also processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
