ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e22	The representatives Jan Petersen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Hans Olav Syversen, Tore Nordtun and Per Ove Width, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e48	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral Question Time. Representatives who, in addition to the pre-announcers, would like to ask their main questions will be asked to stand up. AscendingSort order for mail groups We will then start with the first main question, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e57	I want to read a quote that I expect the Prime Minister to remember: ‘Recently, the price of crude oil has increased sharply. This has led to a record price of petrol and diesel. It is particularly marked in a country such as Norway. The government believes that the price of petrol and diesel must be lower. It is necessary to reduce transport costs for both families and businesses. The fuel tax is therefore not adjusted in the new year, as is usual. On the contrary, the fee is reduced by 50 cents on 1 January. With effect from 1 July, the fee shall be reduced by a further 32 ears.’;» This was then said by Minister of Finance Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen of the Workers' Party when he presented the State budget for 2001. Then the crude oil price was significantly lower than it is now. What has happened to Prime Minister Stoltenberg from he led Stoltenberg's first government, to Stoltenberg's second government? Now the argument has turned around. Now that the crude oil price is at a record level and many, both business and ordinary people, have problems meeting this sky-high price increase on petrol and diesel, so the Government's response is to increase the tax on both petrol and diesel from 1 July. Why, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e67	I understand that many people think that petrol and fuel prices are now high, because they are at a higher level than what we have had in recent years. It is also true that the previous government I managed reduced the fuel charges. We did so, among other things. as a result of a major tax reform, VAT reform. We didn't reduce the total tax revenue, but we changed the charging system. It gave rum, among other things, for a reduced fuel charge. We are not adding up to that now, partly because we are not planning any major tax reform. There are three reasons why we are not adding up to reduce the fees, although I understand that people think that fuel prices are high. One is that we're busy making choices. If we spend money on reducing taxes, we have less money for care for the elderly, for school, for roads, for other Community tasks. We simply believe it is more important to spend money on the large fissure layer called the welfare community, rather than reducing taxes. Although it is always nice to promise lower taxes, we believe it is more important to care for the elderly and school. The second is that it has an environmental impact, and the consideration and commitment of the increased emissions of greenhouse gases is very important to us. So, like other European countries, we do not want to be in favour of reduced taxes, simply because it would be contrary to the climate policy that the vast majority of people in this House are in favour of. The third reason is that it's part of the climate agreement. It says quite explicitly what the taxes on petrol and diesel should be. And of course, that's the climate deal we're putting behind, like the other parties. In addition, the Right has guaranteed that the climate agreement is firm, even if they would cooperate with the Progress Party. This debate is actually over, because the Progress Party has had to bend to ensure that the Right guarantees the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e78	Right may neither cancel nor guarantee any part of the policy of the Progress Party. It's just the Progress Party that does, so the Prime Minister has to stop saying that. There are two faults in what the Prime Minister says. It is not the case that there is a need to maintain the high level of taxes and taxes in Norway in order to solve the large fission layer, which the Prime Minister always talks about. The truth is, it's estimated that the state will go with 450 billion dollars in profit for the current year. It's not like the Prime Minister's lack of money. The problem arises for the individual because it is now necessary to leave at a point between NOK 6000 and NOK 10000 more per year only because of higher fuel costs. I wonder what the Prime Minister's answer is to people who have half of his own salary and who have to pay for their own fuel - as opposed to the Prime Minister. The second error is the environmental effect. The Transport Economics Institute has calculated that you have to double the fee, that you have to have a price of up to NOK 25 before it has an environmental impact at all. What's the answer to that, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e87	The President will allow four follow-up questions - from Erna Solberg, Hans Olav Syversen, Lars Sponheim and Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e90	I would like to answer the question, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e95	Yes, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e98	Thank you very much, President! So it's not the state's income that determines how much money the state can spend. That's how much space there is in the economy. We don't get any more room to spend more money even if the oil price is high. I'm prepared that later in this Questionnaire I'm going to have questions about interest rates. Just in the interests of interest, which should not increase, we are committed to being responsible for economic policy. Therefore, we have to choose between either spending money on reducing taxes or spending money on school, health and care for the elderly. Then we choose to spend money on school, health and care for the elderly. Then I can't guarantee anything on behalf of the Progress Party. I just notice that the Right guarantees on behalf of the Advance Party. First of all, they have guaranteed that the climate agreement is solid. That is to say, the Advance Party must vote for 5 cents higher fuel tax, which I am pleased to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e108	So let's do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e113	Then I'll take a line of experience and joy. The second is that they have guaranteed not to increase the use of money. So the Right Party and the Advance Party must soon clear up what they really mean in these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e118	I understand that the Prime Minister has already announced his resignation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e123	Then let's try to move on. Once again, we get four follow-up questions-- first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e126	I understand that the Prime Minister is most concerned with other parties and little of his own policy. I still guarantee that we will vote for 5 cents in an increased petrol charge. But I also believe that the situation we have today calls for a little more thinking than the Prime Minister did now. We have a situation where the fishing industry is getting significantly increased costs, at the top of a fee that we have not guaranteed, as this government has introduced. We see that public transport - and that should interest a prime minister who is going to invest more in public transport, in accordance with the climate agreement - is getting more money because buses are actually going on that type of fuel. We see that the truck industry and companies in District Norway are getting more competitive. Then I think the Prime Minister should meet this debate with a slightly different attitude, thinking about how we can ensure that these industries and public transport now do not experience being undermined, but that there are other parts of the tax burden that can be eased, so that we do not, for example. stop the collective offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e137	I believe that there is no reason for the Right now to be wrong. What I did was give three reasons for the government's policy. One was that we believe that health, care, education and roads are more important than reducing taxes. The other was environmental considerations. The third was that we're at a settlement, and so does the Right -- a settlement where the Right was proud that they got pressure from the Government, as they said, a settlement where the Right got a pass to increase the charges both on diesel and on petrol. They have even guaranteed that it will stand by, even if they should cooperate with the Progress Party. That's what I'm justifying. I really justified what the Right believes, and you should be grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e142	Hans Olav Syversen - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e145	I realized the answer to Siv Jensen that the Prime Minister was looking forward to the opposition situation, but I expect him to endure another year in the current position. Otherwise I look forward to a clarification in that way. This is because some people want to have challenges with increased fuel taxes, and that is what we are going to take seriously. At the same time, it is perhaps those who need a handshake - those who can't afford a car at all - who should have the most attention. The revised budget was presented, and we must quite simply say that, in the fight against poverty, it was largely cleaned up for new proposals from the Government to combat poverty, a poverty which it turns out to be increasing. So my question is, what will the Prime Minister and the Government do for those who can't even afford a car?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e152	This government is very concerned about reducing social inequality, helping those who have it economically difficult. It's about a lot of different people in different situations, so we have to do a lot of different things. First of all, we've raised the minimum pensions. We have also raised some other minimum benefits around the social security system, increased social assistance rates and some other benefits in the social security system. Secondly, we have contributed to the halving of unemployment. Never before have more people been at work. The fact that more people are at work, that fewer people are out of work, helps reduce social inequality. Then we have raised the unemployment rate for those who are still unemployed, while the previous government cut the unemployment rate. In addition to that, we have made sure that we now have a completely new programme - and that is perhaps the most important one - the qualification programme, which is about getting long-term beneficiaries into work. These are many measures, all of which go in one direction: less social inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e165	Lars Sponheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e168	It is clear that for many people the joy over the summer heat can be broken by the numbers of the petrol and diesel pumps. I agree with the Prime Minister that it is important to keep your head cold. There is a forward-looking recipe for reducing fuel costs, namely following the race that has now taken place through the climate agreement, bringing forward the good engine options that provide lower consumption, producing attractive collective offers that allow more people to leave the car at home, and thus in some cases lower fuel costs than they would otherwise have. That recipe is sustainable, and it carries. The government has chosen to advance one element of the climate agreement, i.e. a few cents on the fuel tax. We will take note of that and, of course, support in the spirit of the climate agreement, but we are eagerly waiting for the government to follow up the other elements that bring down the fuel costs, in the budget of the harvest, and are happy to be inspired by this situation to come up with other and new measures. I think I should alert the table to support those measures too, which can give us more public transport, better engine options and less emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e176	Firstly, I would like to say that I fully agree with the representative Sponheim now says about how to deal with the increased fuel prices, that it is important that we stand by the climate agreement, that there is a broad majority on the Stortinget for that, and that getting more environmentally friendly cars is also a way to reduce people's fuel costs. We have also followed up other elements of the climate agreement in the revised version. I believe that, among other things: have increased the appropriations for environmental research, as we promised. I also think there are a few other points that have come under review. So we've started implementing the climate deal, and we're going to follow on in the state budget. Because we are at all parts of the climate agreement, it is important that we do more to reduce emissions both in Norway and in other countries. That is why we have also revised the increased appropriations for measures to reduce deforestation, which can contribute to really large reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e183	Ulf Leirstein - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e186	I can reassure the Prime Minister that the Progress Party is very comfortable with the role of the only party that is actually interested in cutting fuel charges quite dramatically, because it will actually give voters a very clear alternative when they are going to go to the urns in September next year. So to what I want to ask questions about. Thus, in the revised state budget, the Government chose to propose further increases in fuel taxes. The backbone of this, the argument of the Government itself, is climate policy. You're concerned that people are going to use a car less, and you think that with increased fuel charges, people are going to use a car less. The problem is that this revised state budget states that this whole increase in diesel and petrol taxes should be introduced into the state budget as an increase in income. Ergo you don't think people should drive less. You take as a starting point for the proceeds that people are going to drive a car just as much, and ergo take these 135 million into the state treasury. In other words, this is simply a bluff. Does this mean that the government doesn't believe in its own rhetoric that people are going to drive a car less?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e193	Before the Prime Minister responds, the President will note that 'bluff' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e196	Firstly, I would like to say that it is not a clear alternative for voters to vote in the Progress Party. It is very unclear what the option will be given to voters if they vote in the Advance Party. This is because the Progress Party says they should reduce the fuel taxes, the petrol taxes. At the same time, the Progress Party tells them to cooperate with the Right. And the right guarantees that the fuel taxes, the fuel taxes, are going up. So the question is, what can the Advance Party and the Right say together about the petrol charges? That's what's interesting, and it's very unclear. Secondly, there is the consideration of interest rates and the Norwegian economy that means that we do not further increase the use of oil money to reduce petrol taxes. And the purchasing power of people is increasing. It's a pay growth of 5-6 pst. And a price increase of about 3 pst. So it's going to be 3 pst. improvement in purchasing power also this year, even after we have taken into account the prices of petrol. That means that the vast majority of people are going to have more to route with this year as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e203	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e206	Let me first comment on a previous answer given by the Prime Minister. That's probably not the way he gave the impression that the right hand side of the climate deal has been fighting to get the gas price up by 5 cents. We have said that we are not going to stop a climate settlement because if the government is fighting to get up the gas tax. That's two different things. It costs NOK 1.92 more to drive Bergen-Oslo with the five-eye increase, calculated from my petrol consumption after Christmas! What I thought I would ask questions about was something the Prime Minister raised last week. President, it's not working. - Fine, I'll start now! Last week the Prime Minister said that the next election was going to be a referendum on the welfare model in Norway. For me, it was a clear sign that the Prime Minister again is going to start a long electoral campaign where he concentrates on talking about other parties and not about his own policy. So instead of being concerned with your own visions, your own affairs and why you're going to vote in the Labour Party, you're going to have to use the time to go into individual matters and what other parties have to stand for, in a false way. You've just been in the penitentiary with Party Secretary Kolberg and you've come up with a new rhetoric. But if you go in and look at what's the historical fact in Norway, over the last 30 years, it's been a labor party government or purely labor party government that's been running, in a little under half of the time, civil governments have been running. The welfare arrangements have passed - yes, they have been developed and expanded under bourgeois governments and right-wing governments. The current debate on welfare schemes in Norway is not about whether they should be financed by public or tax finance, but above all about whether it should be such that freedom of choice in public funded schemes should be for the few, for example: private health services for government councils with a good salary, or whether it should be for the many, namely everyone else who wants to choose a little more privately within the system. The Prime Minister's description of our history is wrong. Does the Prime Minister think that's what we're going to do next year? Or does he think we should talk about what political issues we are going to meet the voters with over the next four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e221	First of all, I would like to stress the following: All parties on the Stortinget think I should have the starting point that it's not night or day if one or the other party rules, that it doesn't kind of smell - that's that it goes completely wrong, or everything goes well, depending on who rules. There's a lot in common, and there's a lot that's good anyway. But what is crucial is that the direction and course of social development be changed if there is a centre-left-cooperation and today's government that governs, or if there is a right-front party-dominated government option. It's about whether what we call the Norwegian model, the belief that we're solving things together, and that the most important tasks in society -- care, education, security -- are to be taken care of together, or whether it's going to be left to the individual. It's a choice and a question of values, where we choose community. I could mention some examples of what that means. First of all, this government chooses welfare rather than taxation. That's a real difference. Because we have chosen to cancel the large tax reliefs of the previous government and choose welfare over tax havens, we have more money for hospitals, for care for the elderly, for school, but also for the right one in the last period. It's a choice. We choose common rather than privatization. We believe that, for example: the privatisation of the school or the privatisation of the supplementary pension in the social security system, for which the Progress Party is in favour, undermines the Norwegian model. And then we're committed to safeguarding employees' rights, not weakening employees' rights, as the previous government did, among other things. by weakening the protection against dismissal, cutting unemployment and doing other things. These are concrete choices, value choices, where there are differences. So we stand on the Community idea, the idea of justice, against tax havens and increased social inequality, resulting from a right-wing party option.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e230	The revised national budget shows that this government has received over NOK 150 billion more into tax revenue. It shows one basic thing: what is needed to ensure the well-being of this country is that value creation is increasing, that we have businesses, that people are at work, and that is a result of both international relations and the policies of the previous government. Because we turned around a development where companies moved out of this country. We reversed development, which gave us a much better basis for future well-being. That means we have more than ten times as much to dispose of, because the value creation has increased, than the tax relief you have taken. It's probably an example that the Prime Minister's explanation is not right. But I'm recording that the Prime Minister is considerably calmer now. It didn't sound like a referendum on welfare in the future, this. The big choice in welfare policy in the future is the question: are we going to make some freedom reforms that mean that we do not have an allergy to private solutions, that care is strengthened, and that we are going to use all the forces in our society in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e237	I fully agree that value creation is important. That's why the Government's message -- it says in the Soria Moria statement -- is that we are to create and share. But unlike many Right-wing people, we believe that there is actually no contradiction between creating and sharing. First of all, we think you have to create to have something to share, but we also think that if you're good at sharing, you're also better at creating. For a society where everyone is involved, where people are involved and not excluded, where we have social justice, where everyone has access to good education, where there is security in a public pension system, is also a society with less conflicts, high professional participation and more value creation. And that's why we're actually quite proud that in this period we've had the strongest economic growth since the 1960s. They startled from the right that a red-green government would lead to less value creation, but it is an SV finance minister who manages the strongest growth in several decades, and it is an expression that we have a good government, which is concerned with both creating and sharing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e242	The President will allow four follow-up questions - first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e246	I'm trying to figure out what the Norwegian model, as Stoltenberg calls it, is, because it can look more and more like it's a most well-filled state fund and emptyest possible boxes in both state companies, private-owned businesses and so far also in the homes of most people. So now the NSB has been critical of the dividend policy that the state has. They do not understand why the State takes out all the profits the company can recover, so that they cannot reinvest and buy new wagons, etc., that they need. We see the same thing in private-sector businesses. Dividend taxes, property taxes and a number of other taxes leave one with a minimum of surplus on reinvestment. The same is true of most people, an ever-increasing tax burden, which makes it difficult for most private households to profit at all. Then the question is, why is it so great to sit with a state fund that now, just in 2008, probably goes with 450 billion dollars in surplus, when we see an ever-increasing decline in the society that the prime minister is responsible for governing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e253	It's completely wrong that it's an ever-increasing decay. You have to be a member of the Progress Party to believe that there is an ever-increasing decline in Norwegian society. In fact, everyone else who looks at Norway sees Norway moving in the right direction, because we have chosen the Norwegian model. The Norwegian model is a model where we're trying to do things together, where we believe in the community, where we believe in what I call the big split layer, namely that education, health and well-being we organize and pay for together. It's an incredibly good model, because we're contributing to social justice -- we're not in goal, we're not satisfied, but we've come further than most other countries in terms of equalizing living conditions. And the other thing that's amazing about that model is that it's proven incredibly capable of creating values as well. We have higher productivity growth, stronger adaptability in the Norwegian economy and in the public sector than in most other countries. This is because safe people are awake, safe people are at risk, and that is why we want both to convert and to distribute in Norway. That's the Norwegian model.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e258	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e261	I suppose it was a mistake for the Prime Minister to forget that the popular fear, the very bearer of well-being, was introduced by the Christian People's Party Social Minister Egil Aarvik, in a non-socialist government in 1967. The 2009 election will focus on the Workers' Party's welfare variant, where the country will decide what is best for the individual and the opposition's alternative, where the individual can decide for himself. Take the cash support: it guarantees the freedom of the individual family to choose between being at home while the children are young, or to send them to kindergarten. Does the Prime Minister see that the possibility of choosing is an important value in the welfare community, and that many are concerned that a continued red-green government will be the first in modern times to abolish an important welfare system that has a broad population upturn and has a large distribution effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e268	It's a very important property, a characteristic of the values I believe in, by what we also call the Norwegian model, that people should be given freedom of choice, and it's precisely the good, safe welfare arrangements that give people freedom of choice. Either that now is that we have a good school, or that we have, for example, a good school. That's what gives people freedom of choice. When this government has so massively invested in the expansion of kindergartens, it is precisely because we know that the biggest obstacle to freedom of choice for families with children is that those who want kindergartens cannot choose to have kindergartens. In the case of cash support, the problem is not that you give support to families with children - that is for this government - but we are against providing support on one condition that you do not have children in kindergarten. Paying people not to use an important well-being means we're a wrong principle, and that's what we're criticising for cash support. We are in favour of freedom of choice. That's why, like the Christian People's Party, we are opposed to spending the huge amount of money on new major tax reliefs, as the Right Party and the Advance Party promise, but rather we want to use them to renovate the care of the elderly and combat social inequalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e275	Lars Sponheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e278	There will be an election campaign on the Norwegian and Nordic welfare model. I am sure that the Prime Minister is neither so unscrupulous nor so ignorant that he attributes the Left, in history, or in the present, to countering the Nordic welfare model. Although this is not the place for any of the four-eye talks between the leader of the Labour Party and the Left, we must at least be able to share the knowledge that we should be able to share equally on important contributions in order to get the good society that we have in the Nordic welfare model, which is just able to get to the solidarity solutions and attract exchange rates across different sectors of society. The Nordic welfare model, the Norwegian welfare model, also has the ability to address the challenges in bad times. The Stoltenberg II government will have four years in a year's time with the Norwegian economy's bonanza. But the model also stands in bad times, and then there will be a need to encourage collective reason, moderation and above all to use private solutions where it is more effective, for example. voluntary sector. Community is much more than a state and municipality. Unfortunately, this government has not been included in the Nordic welfare model.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e285	There are certainly some things that are best suited under four eyes, but if the representative Sponheim promises not to tell anyone, I would say to him that the Left has had a significant role in the construction of the Norwegian welfare society. Historically, the Left has been responsible for a lot of the same values, the belief in community. Castberg and Knudsen are important architects of the Norwegian welfare model. The left shall be honored for that. What I am concerned about on the Left is the times when the Left cooperates with the Right and the Advance Party, because they stand for other values, which break in important areas with the Community concept of the Norwegian model. I believe that private people have a place, and that said, for example. Harlem Brundtland government in the long-term programme in 1993. Then we had a mention of the importance of private as a supplement and also as an important cooperation partner for the public. This means that we cooperate with private, both the ideal private, the Salvation Army, the Diakon home, the Lovisenberg Hospital, but also non-ideal private, such as. in the primary health service and the fixed medical device.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e294	Per-Kristian Foss - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e297	After listening to the Prime Minister now in this spontaneous Question Time and a number of others, I understand those who say that we have a Prime Minister who is currently without political visions about what the Government will do in the future. Because what obviously entertains the Prime Minister most now are two things: one is to tease the Advancement Party -- it gets to be -- the other is to look forward to coming in opposition and continue to tease the then government parties. But more importantly, perhaps the Prime Minister now, including in this spontaneous questioning session, has cancelled what he proclaimed from Sørmarka, namely that the 2009 elections would be a referendum on the welfare state. Perhaps the Prime Minister then found out that the Nordic welfare state, of which the Norwegian is part, is currently largely defended by right-wing governments in the Nordic region. Perhaps the Prime Minister has also come to the conclusion that it is actually more private in a number of our neighbouring countries, promoted by social democratic governments. In Sweden, there are far more private schools, promoted by social democracy in former governments, than in Norway. It's the same in the health sector. It is far more private in Sweden and Denmark, promoted by social democrats, than in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e304	First, when it comes to teasing political opponents, I would say that over the years, I've taken a lot of inspiration from Per-Kristian Foss to develop that property, and thank you for the inspiration. Secondly, I would like to say that I must probably take it as a compliment that Per-Christian Foss now says that I «now» do not have visions, because that means that at some point I have had it. It is also more than he tends to give me of compliments. Then it is that I believe that the Norwegian welfare society is characterised by public responsibility. But there's room for private. And as I tried to explain instead, it's like that, for example. The whole of the solid game reform is based on our having private games. The decision-makers are mainly private doctors. We have extensive cooperation with private, non-profit institutions serving health, care, etc. We also have commercial ones, like Volvat. The current Vice President of the Workers' Party explained that it was important that we also cooperate with Volvat, as early as 1993.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e314	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e317	This spring the Prime Minister has been both generous and generous. In the settlement of wages, the prime minister spent 100 billion dollars in future additional payments on the state budget. LOS Per Østvold has said he is surprised at how much money the Labour Party has put on the table, but claims that this was something the party had to do, because the Labour Party knew that the critics in the LO had to get their own, in order to avoid conflict. East-violence says that LO has never spent so much money on a payroll settlement in the past. I'm not going to ask about salary making, but I'm going to ask about political priorities. This government says it will spend the big money on the most important questions. For the Christian People's Party, it is vital that we build a society with room for all. Unfortunately, despite the fine slogans that the Prime Minister has repeated here today, we have to note that developments are going in the wrong direction in the case of the poor. The development is in the wrong direction of including workers with disabilities in the labour market. There have been several, not fewer poor, and the number of new recipients of disability benefits is growing as much as before. Now the Prime Minister is probably already standing and seems to tell how much more money this government has spent than the previous government has done in targeting poverty. It should really be lacking, as many extra billions as this government has had at its disposal in this period, that it has not spent any money, and more money, on measures to prevent poverty. But now we are at the end of this process and we must note that it does not work, Prime Minister! The question is, when we see this development going in the wrong direction, does the Prime Minister see the need now to go to the Storting and invite to work together to take some new steps, to put in place new targeted measures for institutions for drug care, the debt regime for victims and the capacity for child protection, and targeted measures for people with major poverty problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e328	Let me first just add a few comments to the payroll, since the representative addressed it in the introduction to his question. It is right that we negotiated an agreement on pensions in the private sector, where the state also made a lot of money. We did that because it was right of us to do that, to ensure a good contractual pension of 62 years. We've always said that we're concerned about having a good 62-year-old AFP scheme. We've now put that in place in the private sector. The second thing was that we saw early on that what's called lifestyle adjustment had a big impact on the population's security, and that's why we had a milder phase-in of the system. It's in the pension agreement. This means that we have a very good pension reform in place, such as: makes it possible for people to retire from 62 years of age with a good pension and still work freely alongside without any curtailment. It's a pension reform we're very pleased with. I don't think anyone else had negotiated a better deal, to say it this way, than what the government achieved through those negotiations. So when it comes to poverty: poverty is about a lot of different types of people, and of course we want to cooperate with the Stortingen both to improve existing measures and to develop new measures. But precisely because it's about so many different people, it's so many goals of whether we succeed or not. In some areas we succeed. For example, halving unemployment is an enormous victory in the fight against social inequality. The fact that we have improved some social welfare schemes, for example. The unemployment rate, which was cut under the previous government, is a contribution to reducing poverty. The most important thing we do now is to implement the qualification programme, which is to provide a good offer to those who are long-term recipients of social assistance, through training and qualification that avoids being recipients of long-term social assistance. The minimum pension has been raised by nearly NOK 11000, and we have put in place other measures to improve the conditions for those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e339	The Prime Minister now repeats many good things that this government has done in this period. But he does not answer the question. The problem is that this government, which was to eliminate poverty, has fought poverty throughout this period, and poverty has won. That's the situation. And then the question is, What new grip does the government have on combating and abolishing poverty? In the revised national budget we have lighted with light and light, and we find nothing. My question to the Prime Minister is: will the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, in the context of the revised national budget, be involved in taking new action against, among other things. the special groups he mentioned? The problem is that we do not include these groups in the labour market, despite the fact that we have the strongest labour market of our time, as the Prime Minister himself said. We have to go back to the 1960s to find a better labour market. And then the question is, Will the Prime Minister take the initiative that we in Stortinget can take new steps to combat poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e348	I would like to take initiatives on new approaches to reduce social inequality, to combat poverty. The government is constantly working on it. We're working on it in these days. We are going to put forward new proposals, and we are also making proposals in the State budget. So we work continuously, continuously with suggestions that can help those who have little from before. We've already done something, as I've said. We've increased the pension by about NOK 11,000 for lone minimum pensioners. We look at further measures to help reduce poverty. We're always going to have goals we're going to stretch towards. For example, it has been in all the programmes I have been involved in adopting in my political life: work for everyone. That doesn't mean that we reach the goal of work for everyone literally, by absolutely everyone has work. Even today, there are about 40,000 people who go to the employment office and do not get a job. But we still have the goal of working for everyone. The goal of abolishing poverty is a goal we're always going to reach, even if we don't necessarily reach 100 pst. Just like we don't reach the goal of work to all 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e357	There will be three follow-up questions - first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e360	I understand that the Prime Minister has challenges in the fight against poverty, because the truth is that never has the pay gap been bigger, never have we had so many minimum pensioners below the poverty line. In its entirety, we have never had so many below the poverty line. We have 700,000 who are almost out of work. There is a significant reserve of labour, which the Government does nothing to exploit. Earlier in the Question Time today, I think the Prime Minister revealed himself, because the Government defends increased taxes and taxes with an increase in purchasing power of 3 p.m. because of the salary structure. All of these people we're talking about in the context of poverty will not be part of the kind of pay increases that we now have, and they won't achieve the increased purchasing power. Thus, the increase in taxes and charges from the Government will negatively affect only one group, and it is these 700,000 people who are out of work. So here I think the Prime Minister can try to clear his conscience with regard to these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e367	There is a lot of truth in the matter of social injustice in Norway, but what is common to what we should do when it comes to combating social injustice, giving more to those who have little from before, is that we need to focus more on community, more on social cohesion. And it is this government that stands on those values, while the right parties have traditionally made other choices when they have had power and influence - such as the Progress Party. When they cooperated with the Right in the previous magnification period, they chose to cut the social security for those who had the least, cut the unemployment gap to finance tax breaks for those who have the most. That is the result when the Right Party and the Advance Party cooperate. We're going to make sure not only that those who have wages get more purchasing power this year. We're going to make sure that even those who live on social benefits and social security get more purchasing power. That's why we're now in the middle of a retirement stoppage, where we're just going to get a growth in social security, which also makes the insured better in purchasing power, gets a good income development. We're dedicated to getting solutions that also reduce social inequality and raise those that have the least. [[The President announces the next speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e374	Erna Solberg - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e377	Sometimes I think the Prime Minister is going on an autopilot when he answers these kinds of questions. One of the most interesting things that has happened to this government is that it has become a little bit more sober in the complex and difficult poverty problem. But when the Prime Minister later acts as if he has given priority to those who are weakest, that is not the right thing. The growth in income has been spent less on targeted poverty measures than the previous government did on the growth they had. So there's a lot of small measures that help us do something about the big challenges. One is to make sure that social assistance is not inherited. That is why we need to take action for young people and children at risk. The other thing is to make sure that young people who get outside and are on their way into social assistance are turned in the door right away, so that we make sure they don't make friends to go on social assistance, but are in activity. They are not reached with the qualification programme. They are not reached by the measures taken by the Government. We propose to do something about that in the revised national budget. Will the Prime Minister support us in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e386	I've been stressing for many years that poverty is a complicated problem. It doesn't make it less serious. It makes it more serious in many ways, because we know, for example, that very much of the poverty in Norway is related to drug use. Combating drug problems is a demanding and difficult task. We know it's related to psychiatry. This means, for example, that when we now spend considerable extra amounts on rehabilitating psychiatric treatment in this country, it is a health measure, but it is also an important measure of poverty. So we know that the main cause of social inequality in Norway is related to the labour market. Therefore, halving unemployment and a record in the number of new jobs are a contribution to reducing social inequalities in Norway. So the representative of Solberg is absolutely right that there's an extra problem that many people who go to social assistance become permanent recipients of social assistance. Either you have to live on your own income from work, or you have to have a social security fund. These social assistance schemes are only temporary schemes. That's why we've made the qualification program, and that's why we put everything on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e394	Laila Bavøy--to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e397	As the prime minister just said, drug abuse often brings with it poverty. Nevertheless, the government is failing in its care. There is a tendering policy with non-commercial institutions in the care of rural areas today that threatens the offer to hundreds of users, despite the fact that the EEA Agreement provides for derogations from the tendering requirement. The Christian People's Party invited to consult on this last week. The feedback was unique from more than 20 institutions. Health care in the South-East is in disintegration, patients are rejected, the queues are growing, institutions that have been running well for many decades are on their way to liquidation, and many employees have already received their resignation - all due to government tendering policies and aversion to private non-profit institutions. In the Questionnaire one month ago, the Prime Minister expressed understanding and promised to look into this. The situation is much worse now. Did he get a look at the matter? Will he now intervene? It's actually too late for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e406	First of all, I notice -- and that's in and out of control -- that the signals from different parts of the opposition are very cracking. From the Right and Advance Party we have heard the desire for more privatisation, more competition and more offers in welfare production. If there are tenders and competitions, it is clear that there will be a few tenders, and they will have something to do with them. Others will not be offered, and then they will not have anything to do with it. That is the case in the case of competition and tenders. Right and the Progress Party will have more of that. The Christian People's Party is calling for some other model, namely that one should have tenders and competition, not for the private commercial ones, but only for the ideals. Now, if it's possible to do that kind of delimitation, we're going to look at it. There has been a proposal from the Storting that the Government is going through. But even if you limit the tenders and the contract negotiations only to the ideals, there will be some who get, and some who don't get. So that someone doesn't get will be the result of a choice between multiple providers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e413	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e416	The Prime Minister has trotted a little over the entire questioning period to get to grips with questions about interest rate developments and the wage settlement we hopefully have soon behind us. I had the pleasure of, I suppose I must say, waking up to the news at noon. 06 today early and already then could hear the Prime Minister's voice, where he expressed irritation at the NHO Chief's statements, which yesterday had prompted traditional-style moderation: we have to be careful and think about the competitive sector, and spend more money in one area of the state budget, then we have to spend less on other areas, etc. I shuddered a little by the Prime Minister using as strong words as he did. It's important, but also a little bit ritually, that someone has the task of promoting moderation and caution. At least it's not my business here to have any idea who should be the winners and losers in a payroll settlement. I have a great deal of understanding that public employees, who do a great job, have completely legitimate demands. It's the parties that decide the result and who becomes winners and losers. My concern as a politician is to take responsibility for the whole thing. What does this whole thing do to all of us? Do we all get hurt? In that case, we must act in politics. That's why, with a little surprise, I heard the Prime Minister with a little broad pen saying that there's no danger that this situation could put some pressure on interest rates, in fact he suggested that it was moaning to moderation, as I felt the NHO boss did, in itself could help to raise interest rates. I wonder very much about this. I'll therefore use this opportunity to elaborate on it. I also want to bring along quotes from the governor, who met in Stortinget for a hearing just before the weekend. He said, ‘Never before has Norwegian labour force been so expensive in relation to labour in other countries.’ And he answered questions from the undersigned: ‘When we are concerned that the use of capacity in the economy must decrease, it is also linked to our already being at a nominal wage growth rate that is not sustainable over time.’ Stronger warnings are hard to come up with: now we all have to moderate and hold back, otherwise we can do more harm than good. Does the Prime Minister agree that from now on we need a line of moderation in wage formation in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e437	What I reacted to from the NHO side was that the NHO chose to go out and criticize the state and the state settlement. First of all, I believe that a good and proper settlement has been reached. I believe that government employees who work in hospitals, in research institutions, in defense, in the police and with many other important tasks in society deserve the wage increases they have now received. I find it strange that the head of the NHO chooses to criticize all the thousands of employees who work with well-being, research, public sector knowledge. That's one reason why I chose to answer the criticism from the NHO chief, who criticized the settlement that the state had made with the state employees. The second reason is that I find it strange to hear him criticise us for the settlement we have made, with a frame of about 6 p.m., when the top managers of the largest Norwegian companies have had pay growth of over 20 p.m. You have to be very careful to represent leaders who have over 20 pst. average wage growth on high wages, and then be critical to employees of health enterprises, universities and colleges, police, defence and other places receiving 6 pst. wage growth. I reacted to that, and therefore I responded to the criticism from the NHO Chief when he chose to go out against the Government. The third was that I believe that when this payroll is within the limits envisaged - Norway's Bank calculates about this salary growth in its projections - there is no basis for saying that wagerolling increases the pressure on interest rates or provides new information that suggests an increase in interest rates. And when he still says that, I believe that he is speaking in a way that Norwegian economy is not worthy of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e446	In addition, Norway’s Bank’s chief executive has also told Stortinget that the type of wage growth we have now had through this payroll cannot be continued. Then we will do collective damage to our economy. That's why, in my opinion, it's also important that the country has a prime minister who, in this situation, although it may not be the most popular one can do, manners of moderation. Then I agree that we need moderation, which I think we need in the future to take care of the values of the Norwegian economy, they have to moderate most that has the most. It is in a way the solidarity line in Norwegian wage formation that I believe we need to strengthen back to, for example. at the time of the settlement of the following year, some of which are also covered. But then it's like we've had an expensive paycheck, even though it might be within the forecast. It's not sustainable, says the governor. We have been given a revised national budget that is on the expansive side. And the Prime Minister has so far in his reign that there have been 14 interest increases. Does the Prime Minister see that some of what is happening this spring, although it is not wanted by him, can contribute to us getting, in isolation, a Norwegian interest rate increase that is not desirable?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e457	I think it's important that we have responsible paychecks, and that there is restraint and moderation. I think that is important, because over time the wage growth in Norway must reflect productivity developments in industry. That's the Norwegian wage-fixing model. I think that is a good model, which we must continue. That is why I also think it is interesting that some researchers have now suggested that we should try to re-establish a form of solidarity option, where we have a new and more committed cooperation between the social partners, in order to ensure responsible wage settlement in the future. My only point was that when we have a payroll settlement in line with what is foreseen both from the Bank of Norway and from others who have estimated the salary increase - it's included in the interest calculations - it's wrong to say that the payroll now provides new information that suggests an increase in interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e464	There will be four follow-up questions - first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e467	As a little side comment, I have to say I notice the touching flirt that is going on between Sponheim and the Prime Minister at the moment. This suggests that Sponheim is looking for a new partnership, and we can take note of that. So for the paycheck. I notice the principles that the Prime Minister is now drawing up, which are going to be the pillar of wage making. A lot of that you can agree with. But why not apply the agricultural policy, which is also a wage settlement? There we see that the government sends the bill directly to consumers - to most people, to taxpayers - who can therefore risk increasing food prices as a result of the government operating with a total discharge in this area. Is it not soon to find other means and methods of farming than those we have had through all time - which do not provide improved development for farmers, and which only lead to problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e476	The agricultural settlement is not a pay bill. It is a settlement of the framework conditions for self-employed farmers. And they don't receive wages, they receive entrepreneurial income. Secondly, what this government is concerned about is ensuring good agricultural conditions - it says in the Soria Moria Declaration. Farmers have had a much worse development than foreseen this year. So they're getting a good settlement for next year that's been negotiated this year. What I think is very important is that, as part of the agricultural settlement, we also implement quite extensive structural measures, the modernisation of agriculture, the management of milk quotas, of co-operation and of other things, which enable us to achieve more conversion, a more competitive Norwegian agriculture. It is an important element of agricultural management.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e489	Jan Tore Sanner - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e492	There is no reason why the Prime Minister needs to raise himself to the fact that the NHO has pointed out that we are at risk of even more interest rate increases. When Stoltenberg was in opposition, he believed that the one interest rate increase, which came in spring 2002, was the government's sole responsibility, while he is now responsible for 14 interest increases. It's obviously not the government's responsibility at all. We've got a paycheck in the public sector that's beyond the government's control, which is also above what the market expected. My question is in the extension of what Sponheim raised, namely the competitive industry situation, for which the Labour Party, like LO, was once concerned, and for which the governor has now pointed out, will meet challenges due to the strong wage increase, a strengthened crown and the government's lack of structural policy. What will the Government do in the future to help the competitive industry to strengthen its competitiveness, so as to avoid the bankruptcy and deflagration of Norwegian businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e501	Firstly, in the spring of 2005, in good time before the 2005 elections, Norway’s Bank predicted an increase in interest rates through several interest rates, because we had an abnormally low level of interest rates. They already announced, before the election, that we had to be prepared to bring interest back to more normal levels. So what I think we have to admit is something that was announced long before the election -- and which is also a backside of the medal, by the fact that unemployment has gone down much faster and employment has risen much faster than what we thought a short time ago. The second is that I am very concerned about facilitating conditions for the competitive industry. That's why I think we need to have income policy cooperation that makes us responsible for wage settlements, and I believe in income policy cooperation. That is also why we are implementing important structural reforms. Perhaps pension reform is the biggest and most important thing we do, because it helps us increase the supply of labour, we make it much easier to combine work and social security. It is the largest structural reform to improve the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy that has been implemented in Norway for many decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e508	Hans Olav Syversen - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e511	As the representative Sponheim was about, the governor touched on the question of productivity growth in the Norwegian economy. The pay gap between Norwegian workers and non-resident workers is higher than ever. We have been rescued by a strong productivity growth, but the governor stressed that it was now falling. And that gives cause for concern. Then we see little of what the Prime Minister and the Government want to do in the public sector. What we have seen is, in reality, a headless attack on non-governmental organisations in the care of drugs, in the form of a completely headless tendering policy that is going to create more expenditure than the income you expect to save. It should be put away and bet on something else. That's why it was interesting to hear the Prime Minister talk about the solidarity option. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: will he take any initiative with the social partners in order to have a new solidarity option?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e518	I will at least discuss with the parties how we will facilitate a responsible salary settlement next year. It's then a so-called interim settlement. I think it's important that I discuss it with the parties first, before the government goes out and declares some specific intentions regarding how this should best be done - in respect of the parties, because it's a tripartite collaboration. I am strongly in favour of political conviction that we have a cooperation. I believe that the well-organised labour market, the strong, responsible employee organisations we have in Norway, have enabled us to have lower unemployment and higher employment and yet more responsible wage developments than most other countries. When you travel to other countries and say that the number of registered unemployed is 38 000 and the wage growth is no more than 5-6 pst, they are very impressed by that. We have to take care of it and make sure that we do not repeat errors from the past, where the salary growth has come out of control altogether. So I'd like to talk to the parties. But what we're going to talk about, I think we need to talk to them about first.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e527	Step Skei Grande - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e530	First, I would like to point out that if Siv Jensen perceived what happened between the Prime Minister and Lars Sponheim as a flirt, she cannot be particularly romantic. I want to ask a question to the Prime Minister. I have only a small basic subject of social economy, and the Prime Minister has probably many more weights to write with, but high interest rates may be what makes it transfer the most money from poor to rich, from poor generations to rich generations, from poor municipalities to rich municipalities. There's nothing that redistributes as much money as high interest rates-- in the opposite direction of what most of the parties here would say you want to do. Nevertheless, the Minister of Finance acts as if we've only reached a normalized level of interest now. It is not, as it were, a desire to come down to the level that the bourgeois parties succeeded in their time. It's actually so that now it's normalized, and the interest rate is no longer so careful for redistribution. I wonder if the Prime Minister has the same opinion, with his background.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e537	Firstly, I think that the reason why the Minister of Finance pointed out that we have returned to a normal level of interest rates is that it announced Norway's Bank before the 2005 elections. So there was something we had to be prepared for anyway. That doesn't mean we don't see that there are problems associated with increasing interest rates. That's why we're holding back and being careful about money usage, precisely because we're busy with all of them like that. are in the start-up phase, which weighs heavily when interest rates rise. If the real interest rate, i.e. the interest rate after you've deducted from the price rise, increases, then you distribute money from those who have debts to those who have receivables. It's to some extent taking from those who have little, and giving to those who have much. But we also know that the poorest in Norway have no debt, so they are not affected by increased interest rates. On the contrary, we know that some of them actually have wealth and that makes sense. In any case, increased real interest rates have very arbitrary and partly unfair distribution effects. That's why we have to keep going and be careful to avoid further interest rate increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e544	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e547	When the flirt and any partnership between Stoltenberg and Sponheim have already been a topic, there may be reason to mention that next week the majority in this Chamber will vote for a new marriage law, against the votes of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. Then it might be real that Stoltenberg and Sponheim enter into marriage quite quickly, so that the voters can clarify the situation before the elections in September next year. But my question goes in the direction that it's ours, and it's strike. My challenge to the Prime Minister is, of course, not that he should comment on the conflict between the employer and the employee. Nor do I want the Prime Minister to take up the challenge of his friends in the trade unions who are now fighting, but to comment more on the conflict on a general basis. There is a cross-political consensus that the strike should be maintained, and there is a cross-political consensus that health and life should be at risk before forced pay. But what characterizes the strikes this spring is that it's the monopoly that strikes. That means that it's almost just the strikers who serve on it, and the innocent are losing. The employer does not lose it and the employee does not lose it. To take the example of the teachers who are now fighting: they have full pay, while the municipalities are actually cheering because they are saving 17 million. Every day. There are some municipalities that will actually save the budgetary situation through the strike now. Then the strike has a completely different dimension. When the monopoly becomes so large and difficult that it hits wider and wider, the strike weapon will become so strong that someone gets a stronger weapon than others. The same thing we saw during the strike in Avinor. It was just innocent people who were hit. The employer and the employees were not hit at all. I would like the Prime Minister's comment on this development - when the monopoly strikes in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e561	First, I want to say that the new marriage law is for me. I believe that regardless of sex, love will win, and people will be allowed to marry even if they are of the same sex. I believe that this is a modernisation of Norway that I am proud that this government has taken the initiative. I notice that the Progress Party will vote against it. I think it's good that the Left is in favour. It is a good tradition in the Left to show tolerance and respect for diversity. It's a tradition I'd like to share in supporting uplifting. When it comes to the monopoly that strikes, I'm a little uncertain about what the Sandberg representative means. The Party Party's programme states that trade unions are'monopoly-like' organisations and that they are negative for the labour market. It is not my assessment of trade unions. My assessment of trade unions is that they have actually been an important tool to provide people with security, to provide people with income and to provide them with social security. That is why I am in favour of having a well-organised working life with strong, responsible trade unions. It's not just me who means it. There are also quite a number of researchers who have looked at Norwegian society and found that one reason why we have managed to distribute income more fairly, or less unfairly than other countries, is that we have strong trade unions. So I simply disagree that trade unions are monopolistic organizations. If the individual worker were to negotiate wages himself, we would have far greater pay differentials, much greater social insecurity, and this would lead to a severe weakening of employees' rights. The party of progress is against strong trade unions. I'm for. There's a big difference between this government and the Progress Party. Then it's always tragic when it's a strike. I think everyone means that. Third parties are affected, but also municipalities that want to give their people a good offer, because we run the municipalities for people to have schools. And when schools strike, it's a problem for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e570	I don't know if the Prime Minister deliberately misunderstood, or if I was a little unclear. I'm not talking about the trade unions as monopoly, it's not the Progress Party. We're talking about the professionals. That's like 95 pst. by teachers in Norway working in the public sector. That's why they get a dimension and a force that no other worker has. The same applies to Avinor, who has staff at 46 airports. Then you have monopoly. Professions here have a monopoly on operating airports. And when these go to strike, they get a completely different impact force than other people who use strikes like guns. And it is in such a situation that the government should perhaps look at the striker's rights in relation to what arises in monopoly situations. This leads me to believe that the Government, perhaps, like the Progress Party, should look more closely at modernising the public sector. In the case of Avinor, if one splits up Avinor, it will have a separate unit at the airports, so that there will be competition between the airports and the employees. The same can be done with teachers, with a higher proportion of private schools, among other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e577	I refer to what is also in the Progress Party programme. It says that trade unions are'monopoly-like' organisations and that it is not good for the labour market to have that kind of organisation. I think it is good, and I believe that trade unions play a very important role in Norway in ensuring employees' rights and wages. Then I understand that when there is a strike in the public sector, the third party is affected, and so it is often not possible to choose an alternative solution. I am in favour of modernising the public sector. I am in favour of a reorganization of the public sector. But I am not going to do that with the intention of weakening the employees. I believe that teachers, carers, health workers, policemen and many others are entitled to good pay, and I believe that they have a right to organisations speaking their case. Then we have rules of play and systems for how it is handled. I intend to respect those rules, not attack them, as the Progress Party has done on many occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e584	There will be two follow-up questions - first Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e587	Of course, I will not go into the ongoing wage negotiations. But in May 21, we could read that the head of the Federation of Education, Helga Hjetland, suspected Prime Minister Stoltenberg to think more about financing his own election campaign than about creating the world's best school. The Netherlands refers to the tight ties between the Workers' Party and the LO, and she says: “It’s amazing that people don’t respond. They sit down in the closing mediation and discuss the election strategy. In the middle of the conciliation, he travels to the South to get money for his own election campaign. It wasn't very clever. LO got to be there, while half the trade movement is not allowed to join.» I'm not going to judge who's right. My question to the Prime Minister is simply: why is he in a situation where there is suspicion that this is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e597	I have a very good conscience in relation to how we have managed the settlement, both in the municipal sector and in the state sector. In the state sector, we reached agreement with all the organisations, including those representing the educational groups. Earlier today, I have been criticised for the fact that there has been too shy a settlement in the state sector. I disagree with that, but it's a responsible settlement. In the municipal sector, agreement has been reached with many, but not with everyone - among others. are the teachers of that group. Then I would say the following: What is a little strange to notice, is that the right now addresses that question after the Right transferred the negotiating responsibility from the state to the municipalities. It was the right that did in 2003 or 2004. You might think that what you want about, you might have different opinions about it, but then coming back and being critical of the way the state deals with the settlement with the teachers becomes a little weird -- when you've given yourself the opportunity to be the negotiator for the teachers. The second is that the last time teachers got a paylift [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e606	Sive Jensen - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e609	The truth is that many of those who are now in conflict are groups who have contributed heavily to the Workers' Party election campaign, because they believed in the Workers' Party's promises that only they were given power and influence, would also increase wages. Per Sandberg’s questions are most relevant, as they show that in almost all areas of society subject to public monopoly, wages are consistently lower than in professions exposed to more competition and diversity. That is why it would be to do both teachers, nurses and others who are currently in a situation of public monopoly, a service if more diversity and competition were created, because in all other areas it has proven to be doing something about wage developments. I understand that it's not this government's policy, and that's a shame. But we are now in a situation where the teachers, through this strike, actively put their own customers, i.e. the students, a major challenge, by striking in the middle of the exam and thereby giving students great challenges for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e616	I think we all recognize that it's a problem when it's a strike, and I don't think anyone appreciates getting in that situation. But it's part of a pay-fixing system, where we have to respect the rules of the game. That's what this government does, and I do. Secondly, I am quite sorry that the Workers' Party is constantly being suspected of the party's cooperation with trade unions - with LO and with other organisations. It's a cooperation I'm proud of, it's a cooperation that makes us committed to upholding workers' rights here in the country. It's an important part of our policy, and that's what we stand up for - whether it's sick pay, work environment law or other things. It must be a much bigger problem for the Progress Party that they cooperate with the richest people in Norway, who give them millions of support, and then the Progress Party promises millions in tax credits back to exactly the same people. I do not intend to campaign at that level, but when the Progress Party repeatedly suspects that we are working with ordinary Norwegian employees, it is allowed to remember that the absolute richest people in Norway receive huge tax relief from the Progress Party, and then they give great support to the Advance Party election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e625	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e628	We have a situation in school where fewer and fewer people are applying for teacher training. We have many young teachers who end up in the profession. We have many older teachers who are about to retire pretty soon. On several occasions, the right has made concrete proposals to create recruitment plans for teachers. In addition, we have made proposals for senior measures for older teachers to maintain their school skills longer. The presentation of the PISA and PIRLS surveys in the autumn of 2007 led to a very large debate, and subsequently even the Prime Minister took part in the debate and was to create the world’s best school. But then we know at the same time that the most important tool for creating a good school is committed and competent teachers. Fortunately, we have many of them in school, but we need more of them. Then it is the case that the Education Association has made calculations that indicate that we will be missing approximately every year. 1000 qualified teachers for years to come. In the last two years, showing NAV figures, there have been 3 500 new vacancies in the education sector. In VG 21, May 21, Helga Hjetland says: "I experience that the schoolwork is confused around Jens Stoltenberg and that he is sitting and seeing it fall. We have a very large teaching shortage, we have more and more unskilled students in school and applications for teacher training have fallen by 50 percent in ten years." When the Right raised this question in the questionnaire last Wednesday, the State Council, Solhjell, felt that this was not a current issue, and that today we have enough qualified teachers. Then my question becomes: Who does the Prime Minister think is wrong here? Is it the Association of Education and the Municipalities, that notices the lack of teachers on the body, or is it the Council of State Solhjell that has the wrong perception of reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e647	I think it's very good that the Right is involved in these questions. It's kind of typical that you come up with a lot of suggestions -- it's cleaning up Document No. Eight proposals in this area -- and you didn't think about any of this while you were in government. Secondly, I think we have to recognise the following: when we now have record high employment, when we have the lowest unemployment in very, very many years and very many businesses lack labour and do a lot to get labour, then we are struggling with recruitment to very many professions. It's the back of the medal that's about us having very high growth, a lot of people working. Then it's hard to get an extra employee, whether it's in private companies, in industry or in the school sector. The answer to this is not increased unemployment. The answer is to mobilise more labour. It works with this government, whether it's pension reform, qualification measures, labour immigration or other things. That's the basic, what's a framework for what we're going to do in school. When it comes to school, we do more things. Firstly, we have significantly strengthened the finances of the municipalities. They are the ones who finance the school - that's why more teachers are employed, and the local government's economy has enabled them to do so. We have announced that there will be a big message about quality in education and also about teacher training. Although we have not submitted the messages, I can mention that some of the things we do, among other things. the content of teacher training - e.g. the need for more practice, more deepening and continuing training in relation to the need for perhaps longer and more qualified and competent courses rather than many short courses. I believe it is also an element in terms of recruiting the teaching profession that we should recognise that there are problems, challenges and a lot that do not work well enough in the Norwegian school. We've given an expression for that. But it's also very important not to paint black, so we make the situation worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e658	In normal circumstances, I would have thanked the Prime Minister for the answer, but it assumes that he responded to what I asked for. Neither did the Prime Minister this time. In fact, the teacher's density is falling, and the group size is increasing in the municipalities. This has happened while Jens Stoltenberg has been Prime Minister. We also know that the big message about teacher training that the Prime Minister is now talking about, where it may be possible to find many measures that we can agree on, has been waiting for the Stortinget since the autumn of 2006. Then came the evaluation of general teacher training. State Council Øystein Djupedal did nothing to get that message up to Stortinget; he did nothing to increase recruitment to general teacher training. But I think I have to repeat what was my question. State Council Solhjell stood here in the questionnaire last Wednesday and said it was not a current issue that we have a major recruitment challenge in terms of the teaching profession. Helga Hjetland says in VG 21 May that it is a major recruitment challenge, she also says that the schoolwork is getting confused, while Jens Stoltenberg is watching it happen. It cannot be so very difficult for the Prime Minister to assess whether it is the Council of State for Solhjell or whether it is Helga Hjetland who is right in his description. [[The President tries to interrupt the speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e667	School doesn't get confused. We invest considerable money, and significantly more than Right, in school. If this is the case that the school is going very badly, it must have been very miserable under the right. This government has provided significantly more money for school than the previous government, with the Right in the head, is doing. In addition, they made arrangements for the negotiations to be held for the teachers, so that the municipalities took over that negotiating responsibility. We have provided more money, and we are going to provide more money. There's no confusion in Norwegian school. One of the purposes of the communication we are about to present is to provide an overall presentation of evidence, of analyses, and of the extent of the recruitment challenges in the teaching profession. We've got a little bit of different reports and a little bit of different research results. We're going to go through it and present a complete presentation of it. In any case, we need to do more to strengthen the recruitment of the teaching profession, to improve teacher training and to strengthen the continuing training of teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e674	There will be four follow-up questions - first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e677	This government has become very good at talking about what to do in the future, what kind of assessments they will make in the future, and says very little about what actions are actually carried out. Recruiting teachers is about being taken seriously and seeing the whole thing. The Prime Minister made a big point in his own New Year's speech of how important school was, and made great expectations in School-Norway. The challenges lie ahead: our kids get sick of bad indoor climate in school, the government removes the interest compensation scheme. The Norwegian school results are getting worse, the government is legislating the right to bananas and carrots. The school screams for quality and qualified teachers, the government opposes any proposal for recruitment measures for teachers. Teachers ask for a level of professional competence, the Government accepts proposals on the basis of proposals for continuing training for teachers. The student's special education needs are increasing, the government kittens 7 million. kr in the national special education centre. Crime and unrest are a major problem in Norwegian school, and the Government is opposed to all measures. When does the Prime Minister plan to stop talking about school bets, and start acting in line with what he is talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e688	This government has rusted up and is going to continue to rust up Norwegian school. It's both about what we're going to do in the future, and about what we've actually done. Perhaps the most important thing we've done is to enable the municipalities to spend more money in school. Therefore, more money is now allocated than ever to Norwegian school, and more money is allocated to Norwegian schools than when the Progress Party made a budgetary agreement with the Right and the other bourgeois parties in the previous enlargement period. We have provided more money for the school than the Advance Party and Right provided in the previous period. That's point one. Point two, we've increased the number of hours in school. We've done that both because we think it's a point that we get more hours and also because it's enabled us to strengthen some of the subjects where we know that students in Norwegian school are struggling most -- language, real science, mathematics. It comes into place, the money is granted, and more teachers are employed. That's something we've already done. We've notified that it's going to be done more too early, because we see that the problems often come early in school. Many more measures are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e699	Dagrun Eriksen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e702	It's not the first time we're talking about school and quality in the questionnaire, and we're definitely going to do that again. The Prime Minister has said in the past, and he also said today, that several hours were a simple and safe solution to create quality and more learning in school. This will create an increased need for teachers, teachers who we do not have and who we do not have in the future. For the Christian People's Party, the answer to creating a good school is simply. We agree with students, teachers and parents who say that the teacher is an important resource and perhaps the most important one, to be able to create a good school. Then it will be the wrong answer to have a difficult discussion with a very engaged minister of knowledge who has the greatest desire to have a system of legislation on fruit and vegetables in schools. There are many teaching positions in several schools. It's going to be a completely wrong answer to talk about several hours instead of talking about more teachers. There will be the wrong answer, as someone wants, to sneak a new coal with kids in school, and it will also be quite wrong to say no to continuing the further training, as the opposition has suggested. Do you really think that this is the right approach to creating a good school for teachers in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e711	The quality committee, a separate selection of experts, was set up to assess what we can do to strengthen Norwegian school, and it was Trond Giske that reduced it in 2000. Then there was a desire to raise the quality of Norwegian school, they made many suggestions, and many of them were followed up in the Knowledge Lift. I think, like the selection and what the then Bondevik II government said, that increasing the number of hours is one of several ways to improve Norwegian school. It's not the only tool, but it's one important tool, because it gives us more time and more opportunity to teach more students, especially in high school, where school day is quite short. A side effect of spending several hours in school knowledge is that the need for the school leisure system is decreasing. I also think some people appreciate that because, among other things, have reduced expenditure. Then I believe that the system of fruit and vegetables is a measure primarily to improve nutrition. I think it's important for kids, but that's not the whole answer, of course. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e718	Odd Einar Doorroom - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e721	The Nordic welfare model that the Prime Minister has talked about is based on a school of sparkling good teachers - it is based on knowledge being power. In this area, there are once again similarities between the Prime Minister and his Minister of Knowledge, they do words, but not actions. They have so many expressions of love for teachers that you can see why you are frustrated as a teacher. Because: proposals from the Left, and later the opposition, on recruitment - down, down, down, down. Proposals to impose competence requirements for teaching - downgraded. Proposals to improve teacher training - downgraded. Proposals for systematic further training for teachers, experts, which are now being implemented in Sweden - downgraded. And then the top of all last week, when we know that Norwegian municipalities, even under this government, must give priority: when people locally want to give priority to teachers and not bananas, this government has made sure that bananas are more important than teachers. Are teachers really most important to the Prime Minister in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e733	I believe it is important to bet on the school, so we have provided more money for the school. We're not saying that's enough, we're not saying that we're in the goal, but we're saying that when this government makes sure that there's more to school now than under the previous government, it's a step in the right direction. The second is that it's typical of -- what to say -- parties that have been in government, that suddenly, when they come out of government offices, they come up with a lot of suggestions. We do not reject all the proposals on recruitment plans and other measures, but we have said that we should now present a comprehensive document. In a few months' time, we will be able to decide on both large and small measures to strengthen the teacher's role in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e740	Gunnar Gundersen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e743	School students are confused, says Helga Hjetland, and there is no one in the school system. I note that there will be a lot of talk in the answers. The Prime Minister attacked this with negotiating responsibility. There was a cross-political agreement on which the bourgeois government conducted, and which the Workers' Party did not dare to take hold. I think it's more of a reality. Then it was the local economy. When you've got NOK 158 billion more at your disposal, you'd just be missing that you can't boast about spending a little more money. I also record that the Prime Minister says that it is counting on Document No. Eight proposals. They're pretty concrete, and they're following up the line that we had in the previous government. At the same time, we record that most things are being downgraded. Then the question becomes to the Prime Minister: When will he realize that through the New Year's Eve he is actually linked to the fact that there are some challenges in school that have to be addressed quite quickly in order to produce results?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e754	As I mentioned earlier, we have already done a lot: introduced several hours, strengthened the economy of schools, etc. - I won't repeat it. But there are two important documents about school from the Government during this year. One is a big message about quality in school. There comes the proposal where we address, among other things. what we face in relation to the PISA studies, concerns, non-responses, etc. We also provide a separate document on the teaching profession and teacher recruitment. That's where we're going to sign out our assessments of many of the big and small proposals that have come here in Stortinget about how we can improve teacher recruitment. I believe that, among other things, is about more time for immersion and more systematic continuing training of teachers. As far as the negotiating responsibility was concerned, my point was not to raise it, except that I was criticized from the Right, or it was opened for me to take responsibility for being dissatisfied with the settlement in relation to the teachers. Then I say that it is a little strange to hear it from the Right, when the Right chose to move the negotiating responsibility of the teachers from the state to the municipalities. That's what I'm asking myself, to be criticized for what happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e761	The oral question time is over, and we're going to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e766	There will be some changes in the set question list, and the President will show in that context the overview of the representatives' seats in the room. The President proposed that the proposed changes in today's Question Time be approved. - It's a note. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is taken up by the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark. Question 6, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance as appropriate. Question 10, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Justice, has been transferred to the Minister of Culture and the Church as the appropriate representative. Following a call from the Minister of Culture and the Church, this question is moved and answered after question 14, i.e. at the end of the Question Time. Question 14, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Health on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e784	My question goes to the Minister of Finance: ‘NRK Sportsrevyen reported on Sunday 18 May that the County Tax Director of Hedmark wishes to tax the Birkebeiner companies. The Birkebeiner events are big, but they are run largely by volunteering. The AS form is selected because it makes sense. Owner sports laws are paid out their share of the profits. Taxing will hard hit the volunteers around the Birkebeiner events. Does the Council see this as a problem, and will it do something to prevent the tax code from accidentally affecting it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e793	Initially, companies operating economic activities are taxable for their profits. This follows from the tax law § 2-2 in conjunction with § 5-1. From this point of view, Section 2-32 of the Tax Act sets out one important exception. However, companies or organisations which do not have «objectives» are exempt from tax liability. A concrete overall assessment is carried out on a case-by-case basis, including: emphasis is placed on the structure of the organisation, on whether the statutes reflect a non-profit-making purpose and on whether the activities carried out are of a non-reverential nature. Such organisations are what we call non-profit institutions. The tax exemption also includes revenues generated by NPISHs from economic activities, if the income goes directly to realise the ideal purpose. This applies even if revenue is high, because the events themselves are large, and therefore they may appear to be more commercial than smaller events. The current rule of the tax law, § 2-32, provides that sports laws and sporting events are largely exempt from tax liability. I believe that the rule constitutes an important and correct exception, which helps to ensure that income from events based on volunteering and good spirit of virtue is not taxed, but instead can go unabated for the ideal purpose. In general, I see good reason to accept that those parts of the sports sector in Norway that run some events with profits, and some with a deficit, will retain the profits tax-free to cover other deficit events and other operating costs of the ideal sport activity. It is the Equation Authorities, with the Tax Directorate as their top administrative body, that assess whether a company or an organisation complies with the conditions of these exemption rules. They have previously concluded that the two limited liability companies that arrange Birkebeinerrennet and Birkebeinerritt are liable for tax from 2007. In dialogue with the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Directorate is now reviewing the question of whether the profits of the two limited liability companies can be covered by the exemption provided for in the Tax Act § 2-32. The companies are owned by local sports teams at Rena and Lillehammer, and the profits contribute to the financing of the ordinary, non-profit activities of these sports teams. I will therefore wait until the Tax Directorate has re-examined the matter before assessing whether it is necessary to propose amendments that ensure tax exemptions from this type of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e815	I thank you for what I see as a very positive answer. I think the Minister of Finance could also have taken into account that these businesses actually received tax exemptions in 1993, so that is a quite new assessment by the tax authorities. These are individual events, not regular activities, and it is obvious that both ownership and the payment of dividends are ideal. I feel that the Minister of Finance has covered in very well. What's special here, I think, is that it seems like the tax authorities have gone in and assessed that the businesses are now becoming so big that there are so many values that it has suddenly become the basis for taxation. There I also noticed that the Minister of Finance was reasonably clear, that there is really no assessment that the tax authorities should make. It's purpose and recipient, whether it's ideal purpose, that's what's important here. It's really just asking for a confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e824	The representative of Gundersen is right in saying that this is such a positive answer that it is at all possible to give, without me taking over the treatment that is in the Tax Directorate, and I have no intention of doing so. It's about having an exception in the tax law that's just about non-profit organisations. Even if you go with a profit, even if there should be a significant profit, there is an opening in the tax law to make exceptions for that type of activity as long as it goes back to other non-profit activities. I want this case to be dealt with normally, as matters should be dealt with, and that means that it is the Tax Directorate who is now dealing with the handling done locally. But I also open the door to assess the outcome of this case, possibly come back with changes to the law if the intention is not followed, as I believe there is a broad consensus in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e833	I've seen the Minister of Finance just as positive. I hope that the Tax Directorate will also read the reports from Stortinget. What's a little bit special here is that the voluntary effort is actually taken into account with an hourly salary of 70 kroner. So, the AS form has been chosen simply on the assumption that you have to have a protection in case you are going really badly. Then the layers that are behind them shall have a protection. 70 kroner per hour would in many cases be called social dumping in some contexts, so it would be quite unreasonable if the state went in and took its share of the profit when distributing what has become the result of the voluntary effort. I see that the answer is so positive that I really just want to end with it as a comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e842	The tax law we have today is managed by the Equation Authorities and by the Tax Directorate. It is treated in such a way that there are appeals. I am not going into the procedure that is now in progress. But I fully understand what I believe there is a broad political consensus about, namely that when non-profit institutions, even though they are organised as AS, have large sporting events and go with profits that are used for other ideal events that can go with deficits, or for other activities, there is an opening in the tax law for a handling that Birkebeinernet has had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e852	It is clear that the Minister of Finance is in a positive mode today. I will therefore ask the following questions: ‘The Ministry of Finance has, at the hearing, sent a proposal for specific provisions on name-use in the financial industry which will have a major impact on banks that are forced to change their names. Competition supervision points out that brand names are an important part of banks’ strategy and that the proposal may limit the possibility for foreign banks to set up in Norway. The credit supervision considers the proposal to be disproportionate and may be contrary to the EEA Agreement. Does the Council of State not see that it is time to scrape this proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e861	It is possible that this answer is 1 or 2 minutes longer than the rule of law, but I hope to receive a favourable treatment. The Ministry of Finance has carried out a consultation on a draft new legal framework on the naming of financial institutions, on which the representative is located. However, it is not correct that the draft would force banks to change their names, as the representative Hansen uses his question. By contrast, the legal rules that have been consulted prohibit banks and other financial institutions from using names other than the formal company name in their activities. Secondary business characteristics shall be available only in addition to, and not in place of, the business name. Furthermore, such characteristics may not contain the words «bank» and «insurance». This is a consumer policy matter of great importance. Banking and financial services are important for people's everyday lives, and it is necessary to clean up in this area, so as to avoid concealment of market conditions and confusion between banking and insurance customers. When buying a financial service, it is important to know who is actually the counterparty to the contract. These are relationships that have a significant impact on the customer's economy. Information on where one has placed its deposits and which institution undertakes to pay future retirement benefits is essential information for a customer. The current name practices of financial institutions contribute to confusion as to which financial institution is actually a customer. For deposit customers in banks, this is important in relation to the deposit coverage. Misguided name usage may obscure it. For example, a customer who has placed 4 million will. NOK 2 million. kr in the part of DnB NOR Bank marketed as the Postbank and SEK 2 million. kr in the part marketed as DnB NOR Bank only have deposit cover in the Banks Insurance Fund for 2 million. kr, because both deposits are in one bank. If non-resident financial institutions use brand names in Norway that give the impression that they are a Norwegian institution, this would also give a lack of clarity as to the applicable hedging scheme. The purpose of the bill is to prevent misunderstandings and to prevent the use of names of financial institutions that no longer exist as brand names. The confusion in this area is very great, despite the attention that has been around the matter after I sent this bill to the hearing. Even insightful business journalists have major problems describing the situation correctly. It works, for example. as if many believe that the Postbank and Focus Bank respectively are independent banks. However, the reality is that these banks ceased to exist in 1999 and 2007 respectively. The postal bank was purchased by, and merged into, DnB in l999. All activities in Focus Bank were transferred to Danske Bank in 2007. There is therefore no longer anything in the Norwegian banking system called Postbanken or Focus Bank. The consultation of the Ministry’s draft directive on the use of the company name has shown that there is a broad consensus that current brand usage is, in many cases, unfortunate, but some hearing bodies want instead of a general ban new rules to facilitate the supervision and approval of each financial institution’s own name usage guidelines. However, the Consumer Council and the Consumer Ombudsman, who are to take care of customer interests, fully adhere to the draft new legal framework. The Consumer Council suggests that there is a growing tendency for financial institutions to use specific brand names for parts of their activities. I believe there is a need for clear rules to avoid customers being misled about which financial institution they are actually dealing with. I now consider the consultation recordings, but sees no need to tighten up the naming of financial institutions, based on a clear regulatory framework. Finally, I would like to point out that I read with some wonder that the representative Hansen in Bergen's Official Journal on 20 May compared the use of names in financial institutions with beer brands. At present, it is probably easier to get an overview of the sample in the local store than in the banking market. Furthermore, I would like to stress that the conditions of the insurance schemes and the access to personal data are of particular importance in our assessment and place the financial industry in a different situation than the beverage industry, or the beer industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e882	The President will point out to the Minister of Finance that it is absolutely right that the last paragraph of Section 53 states: ‘The response of the Council of State in the Question Time should not exceed three minutes’.» As it stands ‘should’ not, the President found that the Minister of Finance was able to complete the full answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e890	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e895	I still remember what it says there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e898	I think that the hearing opinions of both the Banking Authority and the Competition Authority clearly show that this proposal lacks a professional foundation and that it is an easy proposal, promoted by political leadership. I also think the proposal bears the impression that the government has little contact with business, and that it has little understanding of how business works. Take, for example: State Secretary Ole Morten Geving, who says to the Official Journal of Bergen on 21 May regarding Focus Bank's protests against being forced to change his name: «Focus Bank significantly exaggerates both the costs and effects of the change». This I think is quite incredible. Brand names are fundamental to almost all business. This applies not only to the beer industry, as Kristin Halvorsen did here a little fun out of it, but it also applies to all other types of business, whether it's consulting services, chocolate brands or for that part of the bank -- so brand names in the banking sector are fundamental. The Council of State does not see that changing brand names is a major cost to banks, for example. in relation to customer relationships, because of which they are directly imposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e910	My approach to this issue is to ensure that consumers have an overview of the market to which they are going to relate. What is the case today is that many customers in the Postbanken believe that DnB NOR is a competing bank to the Postbank. It's not the same bank. Many customers in Focus Bank believe that Danske Bank is a competing bank for Focus Bank. It's not the same bank. It has an impact on the hedging arrangements. So they have a worse fuse because they have a frame of 2 million. kr, and not a frame of 2 mill. kr in each bank they would otherwise have had. It is important for personal data that flows freely between DnB NOR and Postbanken, because it is the same bank, while many customers live in the error that they have personal data in one of these brands that does not flow to the other. I believe that there are major challenges in this area, that there is not enough competition and that there are not enough transparent conditions for consumers to address in this market.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e917	I think it is very strange that we have a finance minister who here expresses his opinion on competitive issues, while the Competition Authority has clearly rejected the proposal made by the Minister of Finance. I would recommend that the government actually deal with the professional advice you get on such matters. However, I note that many of the hearing bodies, including the industry itself, see separately the intentions of the case. The reality of this proposal is that we are going too far and that it affects banks that have made the necessary adjustments in an unnecessarily costly way. The best example is Focus Bank, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance: what is confusing with the brand name «Fokus Bank branch of Danske Bank»? I can see nothing but that this is a name usage that undoubtedly confirms that this bank is a branch of Danske Bank. Would it not be natural in this case, in the light of the clear professional recommendations made by the Competition Authority and the Banking Authority, to choose a more moderate solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e924	In many areas of society, conflicting interests are difficult to reconcile. I see well that the business interests in this area can indicate that a bank that has bought up and implemented another bank in itself wants to keep a brand. But it's confusing for customers, and it's hard for customers to get into this market. I have many, many examples that you don't understand that you're dealing with the same bank when you compare this. So it's possible that this can be solved in another way. But the consumer considerations in these cases are very clear, professionally justified, and suggest that one is very strict in relation to what kind of brand name one should be able to use on brands that are, in fact, one and the same bank. Then there may be some other professional considerations that go the other way, but my political line in all of these issues that concern consumer issues on the financial market has been to emphasize consumer concerns very strongly. And I'm going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e934	My question to the Minister of Finance is: ‘In the opinion of Dr. Juris Kyrre Egg of the law firm Wiersholm, one of the conclusions is that the publication of tax lists under today’s rules, where there are no restrictions on the electronic publication of the complete lists, could constitute an infringement of the nature of the European Convention on Human Rights. Eight. What will the Council of State do to avoid doubting the rights of taxpayers according to the nature of the EMK? 8 is infringed by the continuation of the current form of publication?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e943	The publication of tax lists is important in order to strengthen the critical debate on fiscal matters and can contribute to the social control of the equality authorities. Confidentiality of the result of the equation may provide the basis for speculations about the work of equations in general and on the determinations for individuals or groups of taxpayers. It is primarily the press that can contribute to critical debate on differences between real and tax values. It is therefore important that the press have easy access to the tax lists. The previous government strongly tightened the regulatory framework for the publication of the tax lists. Following the amendments to the law last June, this is partially reversed and the press has access to these lists in electronic form. In my opinion, it is important to stimulate the debate on fiscal matters that it is. Information on income and tax conditions is important in the societal debate. From time to time, questions arise from different quarters about the appropriateness of the publication of the tax lists. Sometimes questions arise as to whether the publication of the tax lists is contrary to our obligations under international law. There may be concerns about the relationship with the EEA rules or the European Convention on Human Rights. The existence of such a dispute has not been established. In the opinion of Dr. Juris Kyrre Egg, it is concluded that the publication of tax lists could in itself comply with Article 8 of the ECHR. Furthermore, it is concluded that publication under the applicable rules, with extensive electronic publication, could constitute an infringement of Article 8 of the ECHR. However, it underlines that it is not possible to reach a safe conclusion. Today’s rules on the publication of tax lists are justified for overriding societal reasons. I therefore do not see any reason to propose amendments to the existing legislation in the light of the conclusion in the thinking of the Kyrre Egg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e956	I thank you for the answer, which is not surprising at all. The reason why I address the question is that the development of electronic communications, things that are posted online, etc., changes greatly. It is a fact that when the Minister of Finance says that this should strengthen social control, strengthen the debate, and that the press has a role, I fully agree, and that was also the previous government. But evolution means that now, through the press, you can put this out for a year and with very simple search methods, you can always figure out what's in these numbers. I think it's a little strange that the Minister of Finance doesn't think that there's any doubt that parts of this matter to the Convention on Human Rights, there's a little doubt that something might need to be changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e963	No, I think we've found a good balance in this. It is also true that it is part of the personal data that was previously public, which we have now removed. This applies, for example: date of birth, in the case of street address, and in the case of tax class. Now the name, postal address, year of birth, wealth, income and tax compensation are shown. With this balance, I believe that a system has been found that makes it possible to hold a qualified social debate on how the tax system actually works, but where one withholds personal data in order just to be able to take privacy considerations as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e968	It is interesting to note that at least the Minister of Finance does not use these search methods any particular way, because she would have found that even if no addresses and birth numbers are there, you can use what is out there - actually a whole year in the press - just by name figure this out. And addresses are very easy to get. That's what this question is going on, and it's what this statement from Wiersholm, ordered by the Tax Payer Association, goes on. There are concerns about the development of electronics, about which cross-search can be done, regardless of whether there are any limitations. The question is: do we perhaps have to restrict even more in order to safeguard the rights of individuals, while we are still going to have the public that gives the debate around this? That's what I was hoping that maybe the finance minister might think about it a little bit. I have been told that she does not want to, and I may not think that my additional questions change anything in particular about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e975	We have had many rounds on this issue in Stortinget and in the Questionnaire in the past as well. I believe that we have found a balance that ensures both public and privacy. I don't know what specific information the fleet representative would like now was provided by the information published, and I find it difficult to see that we find that balance better than what we have done, so per. Today we have no plans to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e983	This question, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the oil and energy minister, will be raised by the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e986	I hope the Council of State found out that the Minister of Finance answered the first question positively. So I have the following question: ‘Icelandic authorities have decided to announce their first round of concessions for petroleum activities on the Jan Mayen ridge between Iceland and Norway, bordering on Norwegian cap. Norway and Iceland have an agreement on the joint exploitation of, where appropriate. occurrences and mutual participation on both sides within a significant area. Will the Council of State initiate a process aimed at opening up the Norwegian part of the Jan Mayen back, and how will the Agreement on Mutual Participation with Iceland be followed up in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e995	The Agreement of 22 October 1981 between Norway and Iceland on the continental shelf in the area between Iceland and Jan Mayen lays down the dividing line between the parties’ respective continental sockets in that area. The agreement was submitted to the Stortinget in St.prp. No 61 for 1981-1982. Furthermore, the agreement establishes a framework for cooperation between the two countries in the possible exploration and exploitation of petroleum deposits in a specified area between Iceland and Jan Mayen, on both sides of the divider line. In the cooperation area, the parties may participate with a share of 25 pst. in petroleum activities which take place in the part of the area lying on the base of the other party. The Agreement lays down detailed rules for this and how and when such participation is to be resolved. In the respective parts of this area of cooperation, the law of the party concerned shall apply, including provisions on control, safety and environmental protection. Iceland is now planning to announce its first concession round in January 2009 and plans to grant late summer/harvest in the same year. In the area of the envisaged Icelandic concession round, that part of the cooperation area lying on the Icelandic side of the split line is included. This updates the regulation contained in that Agreement between Norway and Iceland. There are therefore discussions between Norway and Iceland on this matter and how, if appropriate, the Norwegian right of participation can be exercised in accordance with the 1981 Agreement. These discussions aim, in particular, at clarifying the conditions relating to any occurrences extending on both sides of the divider line. We require regular cooperation arrangements for cross-border occurrences similar to those we have in the North Sea. I want to follow up on the Norwegian interests in this area. We are in the process of assessing how to increase our knowledge of the conditions on the Norwegian side of the border with Iceland. It is important to ensure that the Norwegian authorities have sufficient knowledge to manage properly any Norwegian oil and gas resources in this area. The area is not open to petroleum activities on the Norwegian side of the divider line. An assessment of the area's opening will need to be taken after an ordinary process, such as: include thorough impact assessments. Any such decision must, as a matter of fact, be taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1008	Norwegian interests can be significant. Studies indicate that geology is similar on both sides of the border and that several prospectuses may contain significant oil and gas deposits that extend far into the Norwegian side. Norway and Iceland have an agreement, to which the Council of State also aims, which ensures common exploitation of such occurrences and mutual participation on both sides within a much wider area. The area here is demanding both technologically and environmentally, and Icelanders could need Norwegian competence, which is considerable. So the follow-up question is, what kind of readiness does the government have to meet any situation where Icelandic findings also extend into Norwegian soil, in addition to what the Council of State has already announced?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1017	The question raised by the representative is an important one. It may also be shown that there is a question that may have significant consequences for Norway, precisely because there may be important oil and gas deposits in the area. Now, at first, we're busy getting knowledge of what resources can be available in the area, and we're doing a process to make sure that we get this done. Then there's another important side of this that relates to how we're going to handle this 25 pst. understanding that's in the agreement. It is not obvious how it should be followed up. We're talking to the Icelandics about it, and we have a national process related to it. So we're dealing with the issue from two perspectives: the short-term management approach in the case that Iceland finds occurrences that are drifting in the area, and, in the long term, for an increase in our own knowledge base on the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1026	I thank you once again for your answer. There are three main points that are fixed. One is the time aspect, it is very important that Norway does not fall asleep in this process. The second is that the Stortinget must be involved, because it may be about significant Norwegian values. The last thing, as the Council of State also says, is that we need to increase our competence on what is also on the Norwegian side. In the 1980s, there was cooperation on seismic surveys between Norway and Iceland. After that it has been very small. Norway is far behind Iceland in terms of knowledge in this area. The Jan Mayen Back is not part of the Barents Sea Management Plan and can therefore be opened up as soon as it is sound. Usually, decisions on opening require years of preparation, so the question is: will the Council of State in any way try to enforce this, so that we get moving faster and can take a natural part of the riches that can be found on the Norwegian side?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1033	Let me first answer by saying that I fully agree with the three issues raised first in the supplementary question. The time aspect, the involvement of the Storting and the build-up of skills and knowledge are three factors that we fully agree on need to be addressed. In order for us to manage this in a good way, we follow the Icelandic process closely, and we have good dialogue with the Icelanders. If urgent needs arise, we will ensure that we have a handle on what has been said that we are pulling the Storting in. As far as further work on the Norwegian side is concerned, the first thing we need to do is to get a better overview of geology and to increase knowledge. Then we have to see if it's natural to initiate the long and demanding process that it is to make an assessment of opening.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1044	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘It is claimed by some in the Defense that there is a hysj culture. More trusted people feel that people don't dare speak out for fear of reprisals. You're also afraid that if you say so, the military career can be destroyed. Does the Council share this view, and in that case what will she do to help us get a defence where transparency is respected without having negative consequences for the individual?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1053	Freedom of expression is a fundamental right and a very central principle in Norwegian democracy and in all parts of Norwegian society, of course also in Defence. Let me therefore state that the government wants openness around the defense and the defence business. We are working systematically to underpin a culture of transparency for all defence employees, at all levels, where any critical issues are addressed, discussed and resolved without fear of reprisals. These ideals and principles have been central. working on the long-term proposal for the defence. Here, the Government has set up a broad process in which there has been considerable participation and wide-ranging debate among actors both inside and outside the defence sector. Through the Defence Manager’s study, the Defence Policy Selection, the Defence Dialogue.no website, as well as a series of meetings with local politicians and defence-related organisations, a broad and involved defence policy debate has just been created. The experience of working on the long-term proposition underpins my view that we have a culture of transparency, dialogue and dissent in the Defence today. At the same time, I record that someone has experienced it differently, and of course I take that seriously. This is why I have, among other things: launched a dialogue with employee organisations on how to further strengthen efforts to create good conditions for transparency and freedom of expression in defence. This is also a matter I discuss with the elected representatives, who I always meet on my many visits to the defence departments. I can assure you that the work to facilitate a good opinion climate and a good working environment for all defence employees is a high priority task. Through, inter alia: an action plan on attitudes, ethics and leadership in the defence sector, we have put in place important measures to strengthen the work of the opinion climate and the transparency of defence. However, this is a continuous process. Therefore, in future, in dialogue with all key actors in the defence sector, we will continue to work to further strengthen this effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1064	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the May 8, 2008, U.S.A., we read: ‘Strøm-Erichsen contributes to hyss culture.’ That's where Pia Fjärli, she's a major and a trusted man, says that the leadership of the Council of State contributes to a hish culture. “We, who are elected to trust, feel that people dare not speak out, for fear of represals from the top management of the Defence.” What is perhaps even more serious is that the Ombudsman of the defence of Stortinget, Kjell Arne Bratli - it says in the same article - writes in a recent report that: ‘fear of reprisals, harassment and bullying means that defence employees refuse to make public statements’. This is very serious. I hear that the Council of State will help this to go away, but she is the one who is being criticized. In the evening post of 9 May, it says, ‘She is crushing the generals,’ and it refers to the Council of State in this case as well. I think this is very serious. Now the Council of State has said a lot about what she will do, but I want to hear more about what the Council of State will contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1088	I think I'm going to start with the action plan on attitudes, ethics and management. I am very concerned that employees at all levels should have an impact on their own job. To have an impact on one's own job requires transparency as a fundamental value. It also requires focusing both on attitudes, ethics and, not least, on the rules of the game you want to have at work. This action plan addresses precisely these issues, while also addressing ways of improving dialogue, communication and creating ethical advice, which should be able to address difficult issues in both freedom of expression and other issues. As I said, I am concerned that we are going to have a good working environment and a good opinion climate in Defence, and have therefore taken up and implemented measures in many fields to improve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1093	My last question today about this matter is then the following: Can the Council of State guarantee - guarantee - that employees in the Defense, regardless of military uniform or civil clothing, i.e. Everyone in the Defense, can say their opinion, even about things that can be perceived as criticism of the Defense, without being punished or that it will hinder the rise or change of job?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1098	I can guarantee that I will do everything I can, even further, to help us have a good working environment, that we will have democratic rights, that there will be transparency and a good climate of opinion at all levels for all employees in the defence, and that all employees will be respected, even if they say their opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1106	This question, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1109	The question is: ‘The company EcoFuel produces alternative natural gas fuel. The fuel is claimed to be nearly free of NOx and particulate emissions and gives relatively low CO2 emissions. According to VG 21 May, the fuel is charged as mineral diesel, while other producers of environmentally friendly fuels are subject to reduced fees. Manufacturers have been waiting for a clarification around this for 2 years, which harms the government's offensive environmental rhetoric. Will the Council of State contribute to a rapid and positive clarification of the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1124	The CO2 tax on mineral products, or fossil fuels, is intended as a measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions of CO2. The fee was introduced in 1991 and includes mineral oil, petrol and the combustion of oil and gas on the petroleum cap. Biofuels, such as: biodiesel or alcohol does not lead to an increase in the net emissions of CO2 because it is part of a closed CO2 cycle. Therefore, such fuels are not subject to charging. To the extent that biodiesel is incorporated into ordinary mineral oil, the proportion of biodiesel used is exempted. EcoPar is based on natural gas and is therefore a fossil fuel that is not climate neutral. So it's going to get rid of CO2. The Customs and Taxation Directorate has established that the product is to be regarded as mineral oil and subject to the CO2 tax for that reason. It currently accounts for 0.55 øre per. liters. The rate applies to all products defined as mineral oil. According to EcoFuel, the use of EcoPar results in lower emissions of CO2 than normal diesel. If it is correct and measurable, it could suggest that the CO2 tax should be somewhat lower for EcoPar, but it would not be good environmental policy to exempt EcoPar from the CO2 tax in its entirety. Mineral oil used on cars is also subject to a car diesel charge. Since EcoPar is considered to be mineral oil, this product is also subject to this charge. All road users should, in principle, pay a charge equivalent to the costs incurred by society in the form of accidents, queues, noise, emissions to air and road wear. Most of the costs of using a passenger car are related to accidents, queues and noise, and there are costs that vary slightly with the choice of fuel. So even though EcoPar has low NOx and particulate emissions, the costs it imposes on society will be roughly the same as the other fuel. In St. prp. No 1 for 2006-2007, Tax, Tax and Customs Decisions, it appears that it may be necessary over time to charge alternative fuels in line with petrol and diesel. Its aim is to include the part of the car-diesel charge that does not currently apply to biodiesel and alcohol. The background to not being covered by this part of the charge, despite the fact that even cars on biodiesel, of course, are involved in accident statistics and cold and noise statistics, is that through the tax exemption we have wanted to stimulate the increased use of climate-neutral fuels, so that climate emissions from the transport sector can be reduced. That's the reason. Income from fossil fuels, which are currently subject to excise duty, cannot be taken into account in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1165	I thank you for the answer, which I experience as very little positive, really surprisingly little positive, in a case where it should be easy to cut through. In St. prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, Tax and Customs Decisions, alternative fuels are mentioned on pages 74 and 75. Natural gas is mentioned as an alternative fuel. On page 75, the Government ends the Alternative Fuel Section by writing: ‘The government wants to stimulate the increased use of alternative fuels to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. Therefore, the government does not propose to tax alternative fuels from 2008. The same was true the year before. So here the government itself mentions natural gas and the type of fuel that I take up on this issue, as an alternative fuel that is not to be charged. In her reply from the Council of State, she has put in the restriction that only biofuels should be free of charge. When did this change come in, which was not part of last autumn when the State budget was presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1179	Throughout this effort to get a more environmentally friendly car park, which we have had a lot of focus on in our government period, we have succeeded a long way through the conversion of one-off taxes and ways we support the introduction of new fuels, getting a movement on this, and emissions per year. new car has fallen significantly. But we have a lot left to pick up. The question then is, how do you stimulate the use of new fuels? We don't want to stimulate the use of new fuels that actually emit CO2 in such a way that through the charging system we do it significantly cheaper, because there are other types of fuels that net do not emit CO2 and for which it is important to stimulate its use. Then you could say it's not on the CO2 side this EcoPar fuel has its advantage over ordinary diesel; it's relative to the local emissions and the particulate emissions. That's the same difference we also have in terms of petrol and diesel, because petrol has less NOx and particulate emissions and is less local polluting than diesel. We don't have a charging component that takes that into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1198	I wonder about the answers I get. Ask people who have built their cars to go on natural gas, they will boast that natural gas is free of charge. This fuel for EcoFuel is based on methane. If you had rebuilt the car, you would have got it free of charge. When you rebuild and get a very environmentally friendly diesel-like product, you suddenly have to pay a fee. I also refer to my quotation in the previous question. The government itself says that alternative fuels should not be taxed from 2008. In preparation for a conclusion, the Government itself writes that natural gas and the type of fuel that this company has are alternative fuels. The restriction that the Minister of Finance is now subject to is not in the St.prp. No 1 from the Government. It is quite possible that SV believes this, but I, as a major representative, relate to what is being submitted to Stortinget. Then I ask the Council of State to think again: is it not unfair that if you “rebuild” natural gas and get an environmentally friendly fuel, it should be charged, and that instead you have to rebuild the car so that you can drive on free natural gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1205	It is not unfair that the fuel that emits CO2 is subject to a CO2 tax. It is also not unfair that fuels are taxed in relation to the costs they incur to society. That's what's described, and that's what our government's policy is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1219	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Since the Gjøvik Railway was put at a competitive disadvantage under the previous government, the operation of the passenger service has improved and we have experienced significant growth in travellers, up to 30 pst. at certain stops. The Kongswingerbahn is a track that could also have enjoyed a similar lift as the Gjøvikbahn. Is the Council of State willing to open up competition on the Kongswingerbahn?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1228	The Gjøvik track, similar to other sections of the track, has developed well in recent years. The number of travelers has increased. I am very pleased about this. The representative tends to say that the increase in passenger traffic on Gjøvikbana comes from the competition launched by the previous government. NSB Anbod, who is now operating passenger services on Gjøvikbana, has made several changes to attract new travelers. They include: insert new material and change the routes so that they can now accommodate multiple departures to and from Oslo S. Travelers appreciate several departures and place slightly less emphasis on the possibility of being on board. That one needs to launch sections of the track in order to improve the planning and innovation process, I do not agree. I think there's a lot to think about, but there's no reason to think about it. By providing a comprehensive and integrated operation of passenger services, a synergistic and network benefits can be obtained that will benefit the country as a buyer and the travellers as users. So I'm not going to work to launch the Kongswingerbahn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1237	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It wasn't surprising, because this government went to the elections to stop the competition. So to a central party council, a party claiming to be a center party: the council sees that the Gjøvik course has become a success, even though the council has put something different into it than the other would have done. They have a capable director, and they have proud employees. Is there only ideological reasons why not also the Kongswingerbahn can get a similar lift to the Gjøvik track, and thus get more collective travellers and that people travel in an environmentally friendly way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1244	I don't think you can draw the general conclusions from the competition at Gjøvikbana that Tenden represents. Important reasons for increased production and reduced costs on Gjøvikbana are the increase in production at the time of day when materials and personnel were not used. There are many advantages to rigid routes, and this principle has been used as a basis for the development of the route supply that will now come on other routes, not least when the West Corridor is ready. Description of productivity improvements where the State has negotiated the framework agreement with the NSB, gives about 15 pst. increase output at the same price as before when the NSB is up on its production. I do not see that postponing competition on Gjövikbana has led to the resulting productivity improvements. I'm planning a trip with Gjøvikbana in the near future to see for myself how the path works.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1255	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. We disagree a little about the reason why the Gjøvik Railway has worked so well. The Council of State itself has said in this Chamber that she has good dialogue with the Executive Director of Gjøvikbanen. Now the Executive Director of the NSB Gjøvikbanen AS is calling for a new organisation of operations and maintenance, with greater emphasis on ownership of the track, where it is organised as a project, a business unit in the Railway Agency. Is the Council of State willing - after having had a test drive with the Gjøvik Railway - to try out a new organisational model on the operation and maintenance as well, so that the NSB Gjøvik Railway AS can gain an even greater ownership of the track, and as the director says will be a success factor?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1262	On this tour with Gjøvikbana, I'm also going to talk to the leaders of the course, and then this is a theme that we're going to discuss there, and possibly afterwards. I don't have anything special to report about it today, because there's a question that hasn't been up on my table. I am not going to chat directly over the table in that type of question. What is important for people is that there is enough capacity and good enough frequency, and then it becomes important what this government has done, simply to keep full pressure on the development of the West Corridor, so that the NSB, when this corridor is finished, can put in place its ambitious route offer, which will mean an enormous impact, almost a revolution, compared to what one has been used to when the debts of trains in the Oslo area. So I focus first and foremost on it. Secondly, I am surprised that Borghild Tenden from the Left – my predecessor, Skogsholm, was the driver of competition for larger packages and train offers – now calls for a competitive launch of the Kongswingerbana. In the 2004-2005 budget, the Bondevik II government briefed that the next traffic packages were the Bergensbane package and the Southern Railway package. So at least this isn't entirely in line with previous thinking in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1274	‘Proposals for NTP 2010-2019 cover a number of key areas under the auspices of individual trade unions and also point to the need for coordination of key areas. An area which has not been dealt with in the context of a coordinated strategy is national road haulage. In this area, the country purchases annual services for 1.5 billion. kr in addition to the road user’s own payment. What will the Council of State do to achieve a forward-looking strategy for quality in ferry services on national roads that contribute to housing and value creation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1281	I think of the national ferry service as part of the road network. In the same way as in the current national transport plan, transport policy will reflect this in national transport plan 2010-2019. The government will define long-term objectives for the ferry service with regard to the number of departures, frequency, opening time and attribution. I believe that a good ferry offer contributed to reducing distance costs and ensuring the emergence of the transport network. This will promote the competitiveness of industry and regional development. I will return to the ferry service by submitting the National Transport Plan 2010-2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1286	Thanks for the answer. That's a standard answer. Most of the time you have to come back to this kind of monumental rolling. Riksveferer is an important part of a robust national transport network. The main road network has ten ferries, though important ferries, but this means that most national road links are on the other national roads of the day. This means that with the proposed regional reform some 93 pst. the funds for the purchase of ferry services are transferred to the Framework Fund of the regions. Whether it is stated in the plan proposal: ‘It will be up to the new regions to assess the offer of regional ferries.’ Are state councils satisfied with regional ferry standards in the ferries Norway as part of a robust national transport network?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1298	In the national transport plan referred to, the Government will present a view on the standard ferry and ferry services in the coming decade. For other tasks that the county is responsible for, we see national objectives and, in this way, we set guidelines for the objectives to be pursued by the county. Then, of course, it will be up to the individual states to prioritise resources for this purpose towards other purposes. I can't see that one should be less interested and less eager to provide a good ferry service when deciding locally than when to set it in the staging room and in the government office. It is precisely those who have been set to manage regional development in the counties, who, above all, would like to see good conditions for business, that the bus fare should be given good conditions, and that a plan should be made in relation to the growth and development of ownership. It is important, of course, to ensure that the counties are able, through a good local economy and resources, to prioritise the important area of transport for the municipalities' work in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1305	Thank you again for your new reply. Nevertheless, it is the country which has the primary responsibility for a national transport network and which is not least on the main payment voucher. We see a fresh example in the revised national budget. In order to cover the increase in costs and the improvement of offers in only two counties, this government allocates EUR 105 million. kr. It is important to obtain government funding that is clear, generally earmarked, in order to ensure national standards on holiday offers across the country, regardless of the region in which you are travelling. In addition, there is an important clarification that is totally missing. There are mentions and treatment of free vacations that this Council of State and the party of the Council of State are as concerned as the Progress Party is. You know, the fare is an disguised toll payment. We also need a clarification of free travel in the forthcoming rolling of the plan. Can we get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1314	There will be a few, and there is a question that you will come back to in your national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1322	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: «According to an article in Sunnmørsposten 7 May d.o.a. It says that it is very difficult to get the police department to take on overtime work all the time when you are simply exhausted. There may be several reasons why this is becoming a growing problem, but the main reason is most likely to be attributed to the fact that a number of positions, both at Ålesund Police Station and in Sunnmøre Police District, are unaccompanied. What will the Council of State do in this case so that the positions are filled?"
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1336	I thank you for the question. It is a very topical and good problem that the questioner addresses. I hope I can give a good answer. At least I think we have good cards on our hands. Firstly, it is absolutely essential that we now be able to train more police students to fill the vacancies we have in Police Norway. That's why, in 2007, we increased the admission to Police College to record 432 students, and we're continuing the same high number this year. We have not ruled out that there could be further increases in the coming years. In addition, we have asked the Norwegian Police Directorate to draw up a crewing plan for the Norwegian police until 2015. It will be given to us in the next month and will form the basis for the government's work on staffing in a longer perspective. I also add that the government has increased the police budgets over these two years by 600 million. kr, which has meant that Sunnmøre police districts, among others. has increased its budget from 112 million. SEK in 2005 to SEK 128 million. kr in year. I was in another police district yesterday, Sunnhordland Police District. There they have enough money, but vacant homes, and they're looking for people. We need more people, and that's the background for educating more people. The Police Directorate reports that Sunnmøre police districts today have ten unoccupied posts, but that through active recruitment and personnel policy measures, the police district has been able to occupy seven of the vacancies, with accession in the coming months. I'm very happy about that. Then you're going a long way to manning the homes you need, or you've got plans to man. Finally, I would like to point out that Sunnmøre police district has been through a tiring period. There has been great preparedness in the city, especially in connection with the disaster that hit the city when the housing block collapsed. The police made a very good effort along with the other auxiliaries. The police district is also number three in the country in terms of the length of proceedings. You work fast and well, which is important in the field of criminal law. Sunny police districts have in the last year an increase in the clearance rate from 43.1 p.m. to 44.7 pst. In this sense, there is a district that delivers very well, and that we're going to take good care of. That's why I'm glad you're getting filled with vacant vacations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1355	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would also like to thank the Council of State for the efforts and rapid reaction of the Ministry in connection with the racial accident in Mountain Thun Road 31. That was very much appreciated by the people. Of course, the accident has caused very many people to wear out, and it took a long time to bring down the emergency section in this area. One of the issues is that in order to get what we call the ends to meet economically, you have actually had some unoccupied jobs, because you haven't had enough money for the so-called variable unit costs, that is, costs that come from overtime because something extraordinary happens. This is why we have used what we have to do with undisclosed jobs. Will the Council of State ensure that the pot, which is aimed in particular at variable unit costs, is increased in the time to come, so that it can be taken away from the tops and from unforeseen things that happen, without having to go beyond the number of posts?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1364	Now I don't want to prejudge future budgets. It's no secret that the government has chosen to strengthen the police at every budgetary round. I believe it has been important to take the tops that the representative points to, not just in terms of staffing, but it has been important to get the investment needed in the police, both in terms of protective equipment, weapons and cars. There we have more. Once we've chosen to spend as much extra money to the Norwegian police as we've done in recent years, also to the Sunnmore police district, it's because we see that there's a need for it. But I would like to stress very much: now we are in a very critical manning situation, not only in Sunnmore police districts, but also elsewhere. This is about the fact that there are no available policemen in Norway. When we hire seven more on Sunnmare, we risk taking them from other districts, so that there will be vacations there. Then we have to do what we do: educate more. But at the same time, we have to try to make the seniors stand longer. There we put action in place. We will also help to ensure that more police officers do not carry out many civilian tasks, but carry out police tasks, and that civilians take over the civil duties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1373	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Obviously, the Minister of Justice, the Government and the Advancement Party stand together on most of what it refers to here, and which it is important to put in place. We also look forward to a staffing plan that shows both the size of the district and the type of staffing and service we should have in the districts. What is also a problem here is the cost of extraordinary situations and how to deal with them. Of course, you can apply for a refund and get extra appropriations. But at least in some situations it has proved very difficult to get extra funds, because the budget itself has a hard economy. In this regard, I would like to ask a question to the Council of State. I do not expect the Council of State to be very specific, but I still allow myself to ask the question because we now see that the very high, extraordinary costs of the racial accident are expenses that have to be covered by the police district: will the Council of State contribute so that this does not go beyond the daily operation of the time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1380	This is a current issue which I discussed with the police officer at Sunnmøre when I was there. I take the invitation from the representative to have a review of the post-racial settlement to see how this has been handled in relation to the Sunnmore police district. I can't answer on the stand for what has been the process there, but there's a point when there's such extraordinary events like that in Ålesund, that you may need external assistance with funds, but at the same time, in the budgets of the police districts, it's taken into account that things can happen. That's what the police are there for, but sometimes there's a limit. I want to include the challenge from the representative, go through this with the police director and see how the resettlement is, so that Sunnmore police districts can continue the good development the district is actually in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1387	Question 10 will be answered for question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1393	I will ask the Minister for Health and Welfare the following questions: ‘In order to ensure the quality and safety of the most critically ill patients in hospital treatment, it is essential that nurses have adequate competence. Over many years, the so-called AIO training has made it possible for qualified nurses to specialize in anaesthesia, surgery and intensive care. Now this education is at risk of disappearing from Eastfold because the University of Eastfold wants to complete this education offer. What will the Council of State do on the occasion of the case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1402	The so-called ABIOK training courses - anaesthetic, child care, intensive, surgical and cancer care - were former occupational further training courses, where hospitals had administrative, professional and financial responsibility. Towards the end of the 1990s, the administrative and professional responsibilities known to be transferred to higher education were transferred to the law of universities and higher education institutions. The schools got framework plans and weights, and the students got student status. However, funding was still the responsibility of hospitals. Such commission funding proved to be administratively demanding and provided little predictability for higher education institutions. Therefore, as of 1 January 2007, this continuing training was changed from being mission-funded education in the regional health establishments to becoming regular university studies. This meant that the colleges were also given financial responsibility for the education. The Ministry of Knowledge received 65 million. kr from the basic allocation to regional health enterprises to finance this study. It is the Ministry of Knowledge that lays down annually the activity requirements for all ABIOK training courses throughout the country, in consultation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. For the University of Eastfold, the activity requirement is set at 17 places for both 2007 and 2008. In the past, the University of Eastfold, known as 20 places for the further training of nurses, was divided into ten places for intensive nurses, five for anaesthetic nurses, and five for surgical nurses. In order to ensure large enough student groups and competent teachers, it is now appropriate to concentrate the offer of one group at a time. That's what's behind it. Further training in intensive care is justified by the need for this group of nurses in Eastfold. I have assured myself that the regional health company considers this decision as part of expected adaptations. The conversion is also necessary to maintain good quality in the long term. A reduction of 5+5 places in anaesthesia and surgery care is likely to be covered by other colleges with similar offers in the eastern region. Thus, the training provision for specialised nurses at the College in Eastfold is not at risk of disappearing, whether they concentrate on the offer of intensive care this autumn. However, I would like to follow up, so that the needs within ABIOK training are not reduced in the new funding system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1417	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When I have chosen to raise this question in the Stortinges Question Time, it is precisely because I am seriously concerned that this will contribute to a serious deterioration in the quality of hospital services in Østfold. Highly competent nurses are essential for the quality and safety of patient treatment. So now the University of Eastfold has decided to abolish important parts of this education offer, and the reason they themselves state is lack of money. Thus, the government’s starvation and rest cutting of higher education have consequences. The University of Eastfold has lost 10.3 million. kr on this famous rest cutting. How in the world will the Hospital Østfold be able to recruit a sufficient number of specialist nurses in the future if this decentralised education offer disappears?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1426	Let me first say that I totally disagree with the description of Engese -- that there is a starvation of this sector. I also disagree that this conversion should lead to poorer quality. The conversion is necessary to maintain good quality in the long term. A small reduction in anaesthetic and surgical care education could be covered by other higher education institutions in the eastern region. For this reason, the provision of training for specialised nurses at the College in Eastfold is not in danger of disappearing. But it is clear that I am following these developments closely, and I am doing so in close contact with the Minister of Knowledge, who is primarily responsible for this now, after the conversion from 1 January 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1431	It is now the case that the provision of training in the field of surgical and anaesthetic care is disappearing. At the next crossroads, there is great fear that the last part, namely intensive training, will disappear. In the long run, we now see the outlines of a framework for a completely unique education offer. I have to remind the Council of State that this is a one-two-year specialisation which occurs after completion of basic training in hospital care and after several years of practice in hospital, where education and specialisation take place in close cooperation with local practice sites. The vast majority of those starting this education are well established, with family, children and obligations. The proximity of training places and places of practice is crucial if applicants for this training offer are to become at all in the future. Will the Council of State take this up with its colleague, the Minister of Education, to make sure that this continues to be a decentralised offer also in Eastfold?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1438	Again, I disagree with Engese's use of words when he says "framework". I understand, on the other hand, that there is commitment around getting enough both surgical nurses and anaesthetic nurses, but I don't think there's any reason to use the term "framework" if any of them have to take their training elsewhere in the Eastern region. I would like to have close dialogue with the Minister of Knowledge, but I would remind you once again that this autumn one concentrates on the offer to intensive nurses, does not mean that the education offer at the University of Eastfold is at risk with regard to the general education offer of specialised nurses, which we need in Eastfold and in many other places in the country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1448	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The evanreading unit has been allocated 19 million. kr in year. Last year they got $25 million. kr. There is uncertainty about additional grants this year. The Gospel Centre has followed up the review reports and corrected all pointed conditions. Changes made also increase the fixed costs of the Gospel Centre. It is therefore dramatic if the allocation is reduced this year. Can the Council of State explain the reason why the Gospel Centre does not receive full support this year, considering that they have corrected the circumstances that have been pointed out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1457	As you know, the Gospel Centre has received a grant of 19 million. kr. The amount is - correctly - reduced in relation to the 2007 allocation, which was just over 25 million. kr. The justification is - as indicated in the Health DG’s 2008 letter of commitment - that there are still issues that have not been properly followed up after the 2007 review. The Gospel Centre has appealed this decision, and it is now under discussion in the Health Directorate. Because the department may be the appeal body, I will not pre-empt the proceedings. But I can tell you that the Gospel Centre's audit report for 2007 had significant observations on the Foundation's financial control procedures, and the auditor has pointed out that the Foundation has several operational challenges. The Health Directorate and the Foundation are in dialogue on several issues, including: that the Gospel centres, like public and other private actors, must also adapt operations and activities to the budget that is in place. I'm aware that the foundation is reorganizing, so that there will be fewer units and better use of resources. It seems, among other things, that to be a rational use of capital. I would also like to point out that it is the responsibility of the municipality to provide follow-up and rehabilitation services for users - and refer to specialist health services or other services when necessary. I refer in particular to the right to draw up an individual plan for people with complex needs. Health authorities have pointed out that many people with drug problems do not have an individual plan. Therefore, the grant scheme requires activities providing services to conclude cooperation agreements with municipalities. After what the Health Directorate has been informed, it's only 39 pst. of the stays of the Evangelical Centre which have received a municipal guarantee. It appears that the foundation has to organize its activities to a far greater extent than at present in order to provide its services in cooperation with the municipalities. This means that the centre should not include people without the municipality being included in the scheme, as required by other treatment and rehabilitation schemes. We have a long and good tradition of activity and services from voluntary and ideal forces, not least in the rural area of Norway. There are, as the questioner is well aware, grants for a number of activities, and this should continue to be done. The escalation plan for the drug field provides for good cooperation with the voluntary sector. We need to ensure that voluntary and non-profit activities take place within the same framework as for public services. It concerns the legal certainty of users, the employment of employees and the quality of the offer. We need, as I see it, more knowledge of the activity taking place in the voluntary sector. That is why I have asked the Health Directorate for a comprehensive evaluation of the grant scheme for voluntary drug use. This evaluation will be an important input into strengthening cooperation between the voluntary sector and the authorities in the field of drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1470	I thank you for the answer, and I have a follow-up question related to what the Council of State says that there are still conditions that make it possible to have a commitment of only 19 million. kr in year. I myself have had a meeting with the Gospel Centre not long ago, and they say that they have received very positive feedback from the Department and the Directorate about the cleanups they have done. They have also increased the cost of collective agreements, and they have introduced pension schemes for employees, which they had not before. I think that's very positive. The question is whether the Gospel Center is fully aware of what is missing now, or whether the Council of State can point out specific issues that remain. As we understand it, they've cleaned up what they were supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1477	After the information I have just received from the Health Directorate, there is no doubt that there are still some things to clean up after the inspection in 2007. This is now a dialogue between the Health Directorate and the Gospel Center. The Gospel Center has also, I am aware, appealed against the decision that they have been reduced in their current year. I do not think it is right to go into it, as the department is the Board of Appeal if the case should be there. But there's a dialogue about what this is about, but I can't go into any detail about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1482	I get to respect it, and I get hope that it gets ready, so the Gospel Center gets the opportunity to clean up quickly, so that they might also get further funding this year. It's another thing that the council said instead, that I'm responding to. The Council of State says that there should be a municipal guarantee that people can be admitted, or that they will receive a grant to operate. It seems to me very rigid and special. So my question is this: The Gospel Center is one of the centers that very early began to accept ruspacents. Even today, they use their own resources -- they don't just use the funds they get from the state, they actually use their own resources to a large extent. They don't reject patients. Does the Council of State mean, by what she says, that the Gospel Center has to switch to another practice, that of rejecting people if they don't have money with them from their own municipality? In that case, it will be even more dramatic for the Gospel Center and for the Ruspacentets first and foremost, who are actually looking for this place, and who want to be there. This must be kind and clear up by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1489	No, it's not a goal for me, of course, that patients should be rejected. The aim is to get as much help as possible, but to provide everyone with good quality help. Then we need a flora of voluntary, ideal actors along with the public. But I expect the representative Davøy to agree that we should not impose any other requirements on these institutions than what we do to everyone else. There can be no such thing as any institution running under any other system and legislation. Everyone has to deal with the same thing. So it's like that per. Today it's 39 pst. of the stays of the Evangelical Centre which have received a municipal guarantee. That's what this is about. It may happen, without I going to pre-empt it, because I am the Board of Appeal, that there must be some changes in the operation. But that's what we're talking about right now, and I can't go into it any further. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1499	I will be asked the following questions by the Minister of Health: ‘In February, the Board of Directors of Blefjell Hospital decided to close the birthplace of the Rjukan. The board decision was forwarded to Health South-East for confirmation. The reason for the closure was the strict economy and the requirement to save. Health South-East asked for an impact assessment. On 22 May, the matter was raised in the Management Board as a matter of briefing. This disclaimer must be understood as accepting tacitly the closure proposal, which is contrary to both the collapse decision and the mission document. What does the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1508	The 2001 decision of the Storting, which divided food establishments into three levels - female clinics, maternity wards and maternity wards - and the Soria Moria Declaration, which states that food supply is to be close, is the leading factor in all conversion processes. During the year, the Government, as is known, will present a major communication on how the organisation and structure of a comprehensive maternity, maternity and maternity care in the primary and specialist health services should be organised, including the maritime accompanying service. An important part of this work is how to ensure the best possible quality of birth care, with accessible and safe offers to pregnant women and birthers throughout the country. Good and holistic services depend on close interaction between municipalities and food institutions. As is known, the birthplace of Rjukan, Lykkeliten, was transferred from the municipality of Tinn to Blefjell hospital in 2004. Happiness is a midwifery maternity ward which, in addition to providing birth help to low-risk infants, provides maternity and maternity care to pregnant women. The offer before and after birth is a professional prerequisite for the overall care of the maternity centre. Other food offerings in the district are Kongsberg, Drammen and Skien. In addition to the birth of Rjukan, Lyckleten is also used by women from Vinje. Women who give birth in Kongsberg, Drammen and Skien can receive maternity care at Happiness if they want it. The birth rates of Lyckelite have varied somewhat over time, but last year there were 33 births there, according to figures from the Medical birth register. It covers about 30 pst. of the birthers in the district, while 70 pst. by the women at other births. It's the healthy pregnant women who can be born in a maternity ward. There are strict selection criteria, and the maternity ward has only the competence to treat the birthplace where cesarean cuts or complications are not expected during birth. The transfer in 2004 concluded, as is known, an operating agreement on a municipal midwife service between Blefjell hospital and the municipality of Tinn. There are employees at Blefjell Hospital, Department Rjukan, who carry out the work. This agreement includes pregnancy checks, follow-up services, post-natal home visits and health station duties. The municipality is currently paying an operating grant equivalent to one annual work for these tasks. The head of health in the municipality has medical and professional responsibility for the midwifery. Departmental Earthmother from Lyckeliten has daily responsibility for the municipal midwifery, organized under the health care service in the municipality. There were 205 maternity checks at the maternity ward in 2007. That same year, the maternity ward had 26 maternity leave for women who had been born elsewhere. As you know, the question about the closure of the Lykelite has been dealt with by the board of Blefjell Hospital. Health South-East has assessed it so that they do not want to change the decision in Blefjell hospital. I have been informed that the hatchet can accept at least 100 births a year without increasing the crew. When 70 pst. of the birthing journeys to other places of birth because they do not meet the selection criteria or because they choose to give birth elsewhere, it cannot be claimed that women with uncomplicated births must use other places of birth. Health South-East is responsible for providing a proper supply of food both for women who today and in the future could have used Happiness, and for the majority, who, on the basis of selection criteria or their own choice, give birth to other food institutions. Municipalities have - and should continue to have - responsibility for midwifery, for pregnancy checks and follow-up services throughout the year, and are also seagoing for post-natal health care services. These are important parts of a holistic, decentralised birth care. Continuity in maternity care requires interaction between municipalities and specialist health services. This must also be done in the future, regardless of where the women from Tin and surrounding municipalities give birth. I would therefore like to take initiatives towards Tin and neighbouring municipalities, the regional health company and other actors - including the midwife associations - in order to establish an interaction project. The aim is to ensure good competence in the community midwifery and to provide comprehensive maternity care for all pregnant women in the district, regardless of where the birth takes place. Here it is said that the follow-up service will be a very central issue. I believe that such an interaction project will also provide useful impetus in the light of recommendations contained in the notified wholesale notification. Like many other health care companies, Blefjell Hospital has major migration challenges. In this context, demanding prioritisation must be carried out. I know and understand that it has been and is a great commitment to Rjukan Hospital. Therefore, I would like to assure you that the decision made by the board of Blefjell Hospital on the maternity ward will not have consequences for the assessments to be made further in view of the emergency facilities at the hospital. The continuation of Rjukan as a local hospital is in line with the Soria Moria Declaration of Regeringa.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1527	This wasn't the answer I had hoped for--it was pretty much a storytime. The conclusion - an interaction project - does not sound good to me. Now it is the government council that is responsible for health policy here in the country. I have to remind you that the Council of State has previously intervened and taken responsibility, and I believe that the Council of State could well intervene and take responsibility in the case of Happiness. The Council of State has taken responsibility and intervened in relation to the much-mentioned medical hotel. Governments have stopped summer closure at the Narvik Hospital maternity ward, and government councils have said several times here on the Stortinget that no maternity ward should be closed for financial reasons. But that's exactly what we're seeing here in the case of the Lycian and the Rjukan. So the Minister of Health and the Council of State make a difference, and now the Council of State has to stop using health companies as a screenboard to hide. Will the Council of State now take another step in relation to Happiness, despite the investigation into projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1534	It is said that all pregnant women throughout the country should feel safe throughout pregnancy, during birth and afterwards. But I have to say that I'm surprised at the right a little high tone now. On the one hand, I am strongly criticized by the representative's colleague, Sonja Sjøli, who says that it is critical that I do not follow up the Storting decision to lower the number of births below what the Storing has decided. On the other hand, I get criticism from the colleague of Sonja Sjøli, the representative of Holmberg, because I do not review the decision made by the board of Health Blefjell when the figure is actually below the limit set by the Stortinget. So the Right has to decide what they really mean, and not run a game after what part of the country we're talking about. So here it's a conversion situation -- as there are many other places in the country. It's a fact that 70 pst. Of those who actually attend this birthplace, among others. because of complicated pregnancy chooses to give birth elsewhere. It's a reality we have to deal with -- there, like elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1541	‘Lyckelite’ is one of the challenges. The second challenge was that a secret report now suggests that the whole of Rjukan Hospital could be closed down. Right Ansgar Gabrielsen guaranteed that no local hospital would be closed, and that promise is now repeated in the Soria Moria Declaration. The Council of State has not been involved in the case of Rjukan until now, when she is ‘threated’ by the opposition. Will the Council of State guarantee that Rjukan will retain her local hospital, and is she willing to follow the process of dialogue and transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1546	I can guarantee that there has been a strong commitment, not least from my party traps in the Telemark Workers' Party. And that's essentially what's been important, not that the opposition is asking questions here in the Storting, which is said to be entirely legal. I said in my answer that Rjukan hospital should pass. There is no reason to try to create any uncertainty about it. I even said quite clearly that I can assure you that the decision made here by the board of Health Blefjell will not have consequences for the assessments we are going to make regarding the emergency offer at Rjukan Hospital. I'm busy looking forward. Because when so many women choose to give birth elsewhere, the question is, are we going to maintain a business that could actually receive 100 births a year, but which now accepts 30, or are we going to provide a good midwife service, and a good follow-up service, which actually ensures that women throughout the country get a good offer no matter where they live? I would also like to invite the opposition to a constructive dialogue on this in the same way as I invite the municipalities, the midwife associations and the regional health companies. And I'm positive about the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1560	This question, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Health and Care on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1563	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge who will be answered as the President has said. ‘In what way will the Council of State contribute to ensuring that the forms of examination in primary and secondary schools are based on the specific nature of each subject?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1570	The examination may be carried out either as a national test or as a local test. The tasks assigned to the national examination are tasks where the quality is particularly certain. The basis for all examination tasks is the training law and the curriculum of the Knowledge Lift. For example, Section 4-15 and Section 3-14 of the Training Act stipulate that «the examination shall be in accordance with the Education Plan of the Knowledge Plan», and the same paragraph states that «the examination shall be organised so that the student or the individual can show both the width and depth of his or her competence in the subject». The Directorate of Education is responsible for centrally conducting the basic training examination. In order to preserve the specificity of each subject, the examination in the Knowledgelift is centrally organised according to different models. In some subjects, exams can be conducted both with the use of time to prepare for exams and with the use of different tools during exams, while in other subjects it will not be allowed to use tools or time to prepare for the students to respond to the tasks. It depends entirely on the characteristics of the subject and the curriculum of the subject. The Directorate of Education sets down central examination task subjects. The subjects are composed of professional experts, and these are the ones that shape the tasks of the central exam. The task subjects are also specifically schooled by the Education Directorate. In the curricula of many subjects, it is decided that examination tasks should be designed and given locally. Here it is the school owners and the schools who are responsible for the examination based on the determination of the objectives of the curriculum. With regard to the design of professional and child test duties, it is provided for in the Regulation of the Training Act that the test should be designed in such a way that the candidate’s competence in the subject is tested as described in the curriculum for training in the enterprise. The means by which the candidate for a test has been employed in the course of his apprenticeship shall be useful during the test. A test subject composed of the social partners is responsible for the design of the test. I have no doubt that exam tasks are designed on the basis of the curriculum, and that one with it takes care of the characteristics of the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1587	I will pay attention to this comment, as it is not the professional council that is here: the answer I have received is solid and real. The reason why I ask the question is that I know about cases in this country where the Education Directorate has delegated to the states to design exams, and then you end up in that situation, for example. science like mathematics and physics, that you sit exclusively with a home degree for a project assignment. It is with respect not to declare respect for the particular nature of the subject. Because it's obvious that in real science there's something you should be able to do without using a tool, and then it's just as obvious that there's something you can do with great wisdom and great sense using a tool. My reaction is that we get into situations where you, for example. in real-life subjects where, in view of their particular nature, you should be able to do something without the aid and also be able to do something with the aid - you will end up using the aid only. It's the prevention of the kind of situations I'd really like to ask the Council of State to take along with its colleague, so that it will be consistent with the general attitudes that I felt were conveyed to me now. So that's in short the invitation I'd like to send via the Council of State Brustad to the Council of State of Solhjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1596	I guarantee that I will bring the examples and what has now been said by the representative, Mr Dørum, to the Minister of Knowledge, so that's all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1601	Let me say it with a clear example-- because I think the state council Brustad and I understand this: I've temporarily stopped at gas stations to make up for me-- and then no one is able to deal with the calculator quite correctly. And then I'll figure it out. Then this young man looks behind my desk and says, "Can you count, then?" We know that the promise of knowledge has gone on very basic skills. And in the case of some of these basic skills, a teacher told me that not all teachers like the multiplication table, so she took it as a palloon, to use an untraditional pedagogy, so that the students would join in on something that was necessary. In modern Norwegian it's no longer called pugging, it's called memory drill, and if you're really advanced, it's called quiz. So this is essentially an article that in different subjects -- I've used real science as an example -- you have test forms that test what you should be able to do, regardless of tools and tools. So this was more of a deeper part of a general discussion between Brustad and me, so I chose to use the answer this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1610	I understand what the representative Dørum is talking about, and I will promise that I will pass it on to the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1615	So we go back to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1621	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Justice, has been transferred to the Minister of Culture and the Minister of the Church who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1624	I would like to ask the Minister of Culture and the Church the following questions: ‘Toneheim public high school in Hedmark receives, after a round in court, its annual fixation fee increased from NOK 8 800 to NOK 304 300. The winner is the «State» Information Service Fund. Is the council satisfied with this development, and if not, what will he do to make Toneheim public high school a more normal party fee?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1633	As the case concerns contractual relations between Toneheim Public Higher Education School and the Information Service Fund, the matter falls within my responsibility. That's why I'm answering the question. I have obtained information about this case from the OVF, which informs me that since 1966 Toneheim public high school has attached an area of 36 dimensions of the fund. The fixed fee may be subject to the contract every 20 years. Under regulation, the attachment fee remains unchanged for the next 20 years. Toneheim public high school did not accept the increase in the fasting fee that would apply from 2005. Under the fastening contract, a regulated fastening charge is to be fixed ‘in accordance with the general price level for land on site’. As negotiations between the parties were not conducted, the fund requested the discretion of the courts to have an independent body decide on the issue of a fixed fee. Without such a request within the prescribed period, the fixation fee fixed in 1985 would continue to run for 20 years. The hedmark court ruled on 16 May 2008 discretion, where the annual fixation fee was set at NOK 304 300 per person. years. The decision is not enforceable, as the time limit for requesting an overview of Eidsivating Lawyers' Rights is one month from the date of service, and the time limit has not expired. The case is therefore still pending before the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1644	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The answer did not provide a solution to this question. When a school, in this case Toneheim public high school, gets an increase of approx. 300,000 kroner, it's clear that it's dramatic. It's dramatic for a school to get such a huge financial cost. What I had thought, and wanted, was that the state could have looked at whether one could have gone down towards a slightly more normal increase. The information service's fund has great values - and as the school's principal Krognes says: “We had hoped for an index adjustment, and then we would have ended up at approximately NOK 19 000 a year.” Does the Council of State think that it might have been a solution that we had received indexation of this, so that the school had received a fixation fee that had been living with - a fixation fee that had been indexed, and that the state, in this case the fund of the Information Society, could have lived very well with?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1658	It's a very interesting discussion, and it's very special that it's the Progress Party that's now taking it up. In the last period, and in so far as this is concerned, the issue of the fixation fee and indexation of the strong political issues has been the issue. In the last period, the Workers' Party wanted much better conditions for people who have been partying than is the situation today. It was voted down, thanks to the Progress Party. That's why not only Toneheim, but also a lot of housing owners around the country, who, thanks to the Progress Party, have experienced a dramatic increase in their party fees. Now we actually have a bill in Stortinget that we should be able to make an instruction to the OVF on how to behave with regard to residential properties attached to their property. It also fights the Progress Party with beaks and claws against the Stortinget now - so it would have been an advantage if the Progress Party representatives might coordinate themselves, for here, in relation to Hedmark, the Group of the Progressive Party believes the very opposite of the representative Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1667	The party takes care of both parties and the owner. Maybe that's what's the big difference between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. That being said, the Council of State says that the Workers' Party fought too much better conditions. You won the election. You have been in government for nearly three years, and why can't you do anything about this matter? So you get an increase from $8,800 to $304,300, which is $300,000 in increase. You're in power. Why can't you do anything about it? What we mean is really uninteresting. You have the power.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1672	Yes, it could almost be heard that the representative Bredvold is happy that we are in power, because then such party fees under the Information Service's fund can be resolved. One of the major issues of discussion in the Storting around the law we are now proposing, which can give right to instruction to the OVF, is that the Progress Party claims that the OVF is not State. It is an independent fund that belongs to the Church, considers the Progress Party group otherwise. But here in the question of Bredvold, one has suddenly decided that this is a state fund. I see this as a greeting home to Hedmark, but I think Bredvold would be wise to take along that greeting that thanks to the resistance we are now facing in Stortinget, we can risk that the whole matter is delayed. Our goal is to get an instruction in place until 1 July, so that at least those who have a dwelling on a fixed land under the OVF can get reasonable redemption conditions. So we'll see what we're doing with Toneheim. There we contribute a lot of public money, and it's easier to do something about Toneheim's economy through it than through an instruction to OVF.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-28.ana.ud1834e1683	The map of the day is then finished. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
