ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e55	The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Unn Therese O. Sørensen, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative Hill-Marta Solberg from 18 November onwards and until further notice from the Socialist Left Group on sick leave for the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo from 18 November onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Kirsti SaxiFor Nordland County: Knut Petter Torgersen
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e98	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that today, Friday 14 November, a very short meeting is held at the Odelstinget after the end of the Grand Meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e112	There is a unanimous financial committee in favour of the Storting agreeing that the State guarantees the proportion of the deposits in the Norwegian branch of Kaupthing, which is secured by the Icelandic deposit insurance scheme. So that's going to mean deposits up to the equivalent of EUR 20,887. This matter is one of several issues on which the Financial Committee in the autumn, in the light of the financial crisis, has dealt with very quickly and also unanimously. I therefore recommend this setting on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e119	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e135	This case has the history that it was problematic to obtain insurance cover for the responsibility that the Board of Directors of Kaupthing Banki Hf's branch under public administration could incur. There has been some uncertainty during the treatment as to whether an insurance cover could nevertheless be obtained. That question is far from clear. It comes from a letter from the Ministry of Finance to the Presidentship of the Stortinge. The Financial Committee has now examined the Government’s proposal on the requested coverage and has added any insurance cover. There is also no disagreement in this matter in the committee about joining the proposal that comes from the Government. Also, this matter has been dealt with very quickly and effectively and in the light of the situation that exists. I want to say – probably on behalf of the opposition, at least on behalf of my own party – that is how we can also deal with other issues that may come from the Government in connection with the financial crisis that exists. We have invited the Government to make proposals for solutions. I perceive that it has been rejected so far. But if you were to come to the conclusion that the solutions that the Government itself has pointed out many times, and that are in the budget presented, would not be sufficient or good enough to deal with the times we are going into, I think all the opposition parties in the Financial Committee are prepared to move on to a rapid examination and with a positive attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e146	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e164	I want to start with something positive. There is every reason to praise the schools in Oslo and Akershus with good results in national reading and billing tests — this year as last year. Assessing students’ skills, systematics and transparency about results has been successful. This is impressive, not least because 38 pst. students in Oslo School have a minority language background. The results of the national tests show that it is useful. It's useful to work systematically, and it's useful to bet. Ten-year-old Martin explained it in his own way: it's because we've concentrated and focused more on reading. School services show that there are considerable variations between the counties and municipalities and between schools. But now everyone can look behind the numbers and see what works, what can get better, and where it should get better. With today’s situation in high school where many students choose to quit school, not only Norwegian school has a problem. The whole of Norwegian society is facing a major challenge. Therefore, it is so positive that it is useful to introduce measures. Children who are good readers will be well equipped for both education and work. Children who are seen in the school situation and get opportunities to develop positively rarely drop out of high school. What are we doing wrong when statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau show that around one in four who starts high school ends before school is completed? Research results show that parents’ views on education and their own level of education are important factors. Students who do not live with both parents also have a higher risk of discontinuing training. If students have a high level of absence at primary school, poor performance, low labour input, behavioural aberrations or generally low ambitions for education, chances are high that they will discontinue secondary education. In higher education, non-fulfilment of the first wish could also further increase the risk of interruption. Discontinuing education is often the result of a lack of schooling already from primary school. A PISA study also reveals that the Norwegian school does not seem to have equal ambitions on behalf of all students. Some of those who interrupt education find their way back to school — fortunately — but too many do not. For these, the chances of falling out of work are increasing, and it is close to thinking that the path of inaction and a criminal career can be short. An example is the group called the repeaters. A few boys practice the most serious juvenile delinquency. This is a small group that is hard to stop. They're called early starters. They experience a lot of risk in growth. They stand out early in school and come up with wild roads. Often they become criminals. The police are striving to catch them up so early that they can prevent a further and lasting criminal racetrack. These are often 15–16 years old, and then it's too late. We have to solve the problems earlier, says the police. According to violent researcher Ragnhild Bjørnebeck at the Oslo Police College, all experience shows that by entering very early you can achieve the best results – usually as early as when the boy or girl is under ten years of age. Of course, there is a clear link between school performance and the degree to which a student completes or gives up and drops out of school. On 6 November, VG Facts showed statistics on primary school credits for the counties. Not surprisingly, the counties such as Eastfold and Telemark came out poorly, and so did the national tests. Both are old industrial states, where higher education has not been required. Both have an average income in the municipalities below the national average, which means that both counties have less money to spend on schools than they do elsewhere in the country. In Telemark – which is my home country – drop-out is far too high and to great concern, precisely because we often find the drop-outs on social security statistics at a later stage. As much as 20 pst. students leave primary school each year with poor literacy skills, so weak that they may have problems with secondary education. Among these is a alarmingly high number of students with a migrant background. Research shows that the main reason why individual students do this poorly in school is their parents’ social background. If we cannot reverse this trend, we will face major social problems in a few years' time, which can cause political unrest. The dark speech of the numbers is that we can be in the process of creating a new generation of losers. The PISA number shows that 29 pst. by the Norwegian boys come in the weakest group. At the same time, young men under the age of 30 are the most vulnerable groups. The participation of men between the ages of 25 and 34 is dramatically falling, and it is definitely not just the NHO who believe that there is a link between the weak reading skills, the great decline of boys in high school and disability rates. Norwegian school must simply at right cold again! If not, we're getting a society with an extremely large social security group, because they won't be able to find their place in the world of work. Immigrant youth itself says this: First, the school relaxes kids, and when they get to high school, they don't have enough Norwegian knowledge. They say that those who know Norwegian are able to join the school. Those who can't, don't understand anything and drop out of school. And they say, all the doors are closed as long as you can't Norwegian, you can't follow them. The language is already key to it. Of course, students must have learned the basics in order to have the opportunity to go to high school. Therefore, the means of special and support education and adapted training should be directed more towards kindergarten and primary school. Children develop in the nearest development zone, and the school has so far not been able to contribute well enough to cohesion. It is more than a crossroads of thought that the higher the resource effort, the higher the education system. In order to provide each child with the necessary assistance and support, resources need to be directed to primary and pediatric schools to a far greater extent than the current system. Primary schools must be able to facilitate the development of individual students. This is best achieved by being clear on what objectives students will achieve, by making demands on them, by offering good education and by measuring the results. There is no doubt that the characteristics of primary school have the greatest impact on young people’s survival through higher education. Together with social background and gender, the characteristics of secondary school are crucial for what they achieve in higher education. Not everyone meets in high school with professionally heavy enough school bags. Norwegian 16-year-olds have such different starting points that a not insignificant proportion of annual coals lack the necessary prerequisites to meet the difficult requirements needed to achieve study or professional competence. PISA studies show that Norwegian students do not have a realistic picture of their own performance. This is what happens when you don't get good and concrete feedback. Better student assessments are therefore a very central measure. According to SSB numbers, 35 pst drops. of all first-generation migrants out of higher education. Half of the boys with an African background end in the course of their journey. By comparison, one in five ethnic Norwegian boys are dropping out, and this is a dramatic difference. I think the solution lies in a better follow-up to childhood and childhood. If the boys haven't been properly trained in primary school, they don't understand what's going on in high school. The experience is that many schools and teachers often have a low level of ambition, both in terms of self-help towards minority students and in terms of results for these students. The Somali immigrant community, for example, believes that: that it is discriminatory for their children to have their own curriculum in Norwegian. They shall have the same requirements as other Norwegian children, they say, which has been stated and proposed for a long time. Primary school must provide a very good basis for their children before they send them to high school. School owners must make sure that each school focuses on this. However, the state must enable municipalities to meet the school’s challenges. Then we can't help talking about local economy and priorities. It is unfortunately a fact that many children and young people with a different ethnic background feel alienated and neglected in Norwegian society. Even though young people are born and raised here, they don't feel accepted. At the same time, they do not extend in relation to their own home environment. This breaks down all sense of belonging. You're not accepted for who you are, you don't fit into any booth and have a feeling of being unwanted. A new statistical central agency report confirms this. Young people with Turkish and Pakistani backgrounds say that they feel discriminated against, suffer from poor mental health and have a lower sense of belonging to Norway, and so do Somalis. None of us are worthy that we do not provide the best possible school and the best possible integration. Every individual student should have the best chances of success in life in any background. This is the backbone of my interpellation and reflection around the theme, and with hope of good input from the council.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e206	I want to thank the interpellant for addressing what I want to characterize as one of today's major societal problems. We take too little into account how negative it can be in the future if we can't do anything about it. The great downfall we have in secondary school, and the fact that too many elephants leave school without learning enough to use the possibilities and get the skills they need later is dramatic. If we look at Norwegian young people between 20 and 24 years of age, it's like almost everyone who's completed further education is either in work or under education. But look at those who have dropped out of continuing school, who are between 20 and 24 years old, is one of four out of work or education, in a situation of historically low unemployment – there are numbers from last year. We also know that the decline in Norway is higher than in other Nordic countries. Both Sweden, Denmark and Finland have significantly lower declines in secondary schools. So we have a drop-out where about one in three elephants, starting in further education, have not completed after five years – not according to normal time, but after five years. I would also like to mention that both when it comes to school learning, when it comes to apostasy, and insofar as higher education is also a social problem for everyone in Norway. This is by no means an ethnic problem. If we look at second-generation immigrants in Norway, they have non-responses in line with the average in Norway. Second-generation immigrant girls in Norway have higher participation in higher education than the average in Norway. So even if we have some special Norwegian knowledge challenges, which I'm going to come back to, it's a common social problem for everyone in Norway when one of three drops out of the secondary school. We are once again looking at social security statistics, at the lack of skills and at the fact that there are too few people in the world of work. This is an area that has been one of the most important for the Red-Green government for three years, and we have put in a massive effort over the entire educational cycle to prevent apostasy and to give all equal opportunities. Key points have been exactly what the representative takes up: pre-action. Let me therefore briefly go through what we do from kindergarten and even further school – and I could go far ahead, but let's stop there today. The kindergarten revolution that we are about to finalise is the largest welfare reform in Norway in recent times, but also the biggest social smoothing reform and to give more opportunities. We have just been published the results of the new mother-child study, which clearly shows that being in kindergarten is also crucial at an early stage for young people with a minority background or young people with low education and incomes – i.e. those groups who are at risk of having higher non-responses later. We see that being in kindergarten is extremely important both linguistically and socially. Now 255,000 children are going to kindergarten in Norway. That year I was born, in 1971, it was under 3 pst. of the children who went to kindergarten. Now it's about 95 pst. Behind the 255 000 there are park suits and little kids running around, who are on a stage where they meet others, who learn to socialize with others, who learn Norwegian, who develop other skills and are better off for school and to opportunities later in life after going to kindergarten. Therefore, the investment is at a lower price, to build out tens of thousands of new kindergartens and to improve the quality of kindergartens, for example. with 400–500 new places of study next year, very important for young people’s later opportunities in the education system and as adults. Early effort is not limited to kindergarten age. This applies not least in the first years of school. That's why we first have through St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007 and now later with the Quality in School Report, addressed the problem and delivered solutions and measures that have started, which are to be launched. We introduce comprehensive monitoring tools for the first few years of school, which will provide knowledge of how students do it, and which will enable us to address the challenges immediately for those who work hard. We have invested heavily in the continuing training of teachers. We know that teachers are the most important things for students. In particular, this year and next year we will be investing in further education in the field of reading, in the next year, as well as in accounting, where it is crucial that a person should have basic knowledge at an early stage. From next year, we will start a systematic continuous training of teachers for the first time. Then we've spent $1 billion in the municipal economy next year on several teachers and other pedagogues at the first to fourth years in Norwegian and mathematics on the children's ball. We will also create a new principal training next year. All of this and many other measures have just been directed towards Norwegian schoolteachers and teachers being able to follow up on young people more closely and take on them as hard as possible from the beginning. As the representative was about to say, we know that in Norway, too much of a lot of efforts are being made to help it further in the educational cycle, while it should be quite the opposite. It should be the way some other countries do, that the greatest effort is made to provide special education and to adapt training at the beginning of the course. By doing so, we better prevent and reduce the need beyond the school run. We must start by putting more effort into resources, money and not least in the follow-up and competence of teachers and principals at an early stage. So it's that effort early in the school run is well and good, but it's never too late either. We must continue to take hold of the youth ball and the continuing school and make a significant effort there. We have. The new subject of educational choices at the level of youth, which is now mandatory, shall provide a taste of the possibilities that you have later. The increase in advisory efforts, both professionalisation and the promises we have this year, together with educational choices, will help to reduce wrong choices. We know that quite a few of the students who drop out on further, give the wrong choices as a major reason for them to stop. We're also now starting to get away from the testimonial at the high school, because we know that absence at the high school is a central indicator that can reveal the risk of failure at secondary school. When it comes to action in secondary schools, we have introduced free learning material in continuing training, and from 2009 it applies to all. We are now also introducing screening tests in Norwegian and mathematics for the first year of further education, based on the idea that continuing education must know in advance who is far from mastering the basic skills they need in order to carry out further training. We've had a trial in three states, now extended to all states, with a more practical course of training, which provides a letter of practice, for some of the students we look dropping out, striking out on subjects and not having the chance to complete. The main goal is for many more to complete the further education and do well. At the same time, we see that quite a number of elephants are far from it. A far better option than ending and not remaining with anything is that they have a shorter, more practical course and are left with a certificate of competence that they can build on to the full future. The practical letter experiment, which is currently limited, is a major success where it has been carried out. We also know from research, for example. in the district of Akershus, there is demand in the labour market for the type of competence that will often replace completely unskilled skills. This is what we've done. This has been a massive effort, but there is still a need for massive efforts over many years. Early effort is not a one-time matter, it is something we must continue to prioritise for a long time. That is why I think it is important that we present a quality report on kindergartens in the new year, and that we discuss, as I have previously suggested, a compulsory nursery provision before school start, which will provide all the basics of language and social skills that make schooling and school start easier. Then we must continue to discuss the youth ball and the passing stage. I have just started working on a big message that I call In practice, which is about how the youth school and the secondary school can be adapted better to the individual student, and how we can offer a more practical youth school and start on further. For example, we have to go through the curriculums of general education in general that probably do not meet many of the professionals, and we have to look at how we can make a further race that hits many of the students who are thinking about vocational and professional training, where the drop-out is the biggest. In addition, we have a number of challenges specifically directed at minority-speaking doctors and a number of measures that apply to them. We've got a lot of things to do. cut down a selection that starts working now and will go through the full training of a minority language doctor. We have extended the right to further training and are working to improve Norwegian education in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e242	I thank the Council of State for the article and for sketching out the measures that we already have in Norwegian school and kindergarten and in society. We agree that there are measures we need, and we also need to develop further measures. The challenges we face require that we continue to focus on the problem. We have to see the reality in our eyes. We're going to have to keep going, we're going to prevent or reduce the number of drop-outs in school, and if we're going to avoid young people starting to look at the society they live in, like hostile. It is actually important for me to say that children and young people, regardless of ethnic background, the way of life, faith, not belief, clothing, must be involved in the Norwegian community. It must be allowed to call yourself Norwegian even if you are different. If we're going to be able to avoid increased tension, distance and prejudice, we're going to have to start seeing things in context. It was a great cross of thought for me when just a few weeks ago I was in Skien at a national conference on the integration of immigrants. It went to Somalis. For three days, Skien municipality and people from all over the country focused on integration issues. When the Somalis themselves stand up and tell how they view their lives in Norwegian society, I have to say that we have no reason to be very proud of ourselves. They feel on the side of Norwegian society, they feel outside. It is quite clear that we have to look at what we are doing here in Norway. We need to create meeting places, create arenas and have dialogue. Kinderhagen and the school must be active right from the start in order to get their parents on the track and have dialogue with their parents. Politically, we need to make it possible for all parents to have the same opportunity to meet that dialogue with kindergarten and school. I would also like to mention that the Right has proposals for language mapping of all four-year-olds throughout the country. The action taken by the Government is on one project and on one group. We have a lot of projects in this country, but what's going on is taking care of the projects, continuing them and implementing them in our usual social system. We also need to focus more on getting immigrant women into language training and working, and then we need to get the children to go to kindergarten. The right has proposals for free kindergarten space for these children. So we probably have different suggestions from each of our sides. This is a challenge that concerns us all, regardless of the party, and wherever in the country you live.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e255	That it applies to us all no matter where in the country we live, I totally agree. There was a lot of wisdom in what the representative said in his post now. I am very pleased, however, that the Right now says very clearly that they support all the measures on a full scale, and that they express clear support that we have done a lot in this period. It's important. At the same time, I believe that our impatience must be great, because it is also right that we continue to struggle with major challenges in kindergarten, elementary school and further education – throughout the course. We can't be happy, as the representative also expressed it, until we get a lot further. Let me use a few words specifically on the issue of inclusion, because I also think it's extremely important. Especially if we're going to meet everyone in Norway with the same requirements, they need to know that they have the same possibilities and dishes at the bottom. It's related. I think the early childhood, that is, before the school age, is extremely important for creating equal opportunities for everyone. Societal researchers say that half of the basics of the knowledge a later person acquires, the social skills, the networks and the friends you get are created early – before the child is six years old. All young people can experience the extreme speed at which young people can acquire all kinds of knowledge and how much happens in the first few years. With the very extensive knowledge we now have, we have to get to it. For example, we now know, as I said, that about 95 pst. 5 pst. It does not have it. And we know that among the 5 pst. it is an overrepresentation of children with a minority background, and it is an overrepresentation of children with a low level of education and income. It is precisely the same groups that later prove to wear more to do well in the school and complete the further education. Then I think it is very good that one suggests language mapping for everyone. You know, it's an offer for everyone we really need. Now we've had a crazy development of just such an offer, and we've seen the price down, so that more people are going to use the offer. We have done the opposite of what the Right has previously proposed in their budget, simply to set the price. But I think that if we take this seriously, we also have to move on. We have to abolish cash support, which is a major obstacle today because many people use the nursery space – we see that the group that receives cash support increases for those with a minority background. And we have to provide for a mandatory supply under the control of the nursery. I also believe that the provision of minority language doctors in the Norwegian school should be improved. There needs to be more competence and more bilingual teachers. I agree that we need a discussion about Norwegian training in the minority language school is good enough. That's why I think that a selection that goes through the entire image and looks at how we can create a school that better meets those who are multilingual or minority-speaking will be able to come up with a lot of important suggestions in areas where we can't do a good enough job today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e272	Abductions and withdrawals in secondary schools are one of the main challenges facing Norwegian school. The interpellant shall have roses to address this theme. When one of three either drops out of school, or fails to complete successfully in all subjects, we have to do some grip. The Labour Party and the Government have done some work and want to make further efforts to meet this challenge. I'll get back to it a little bit later. First of all, I would like to say that I do not necessarily agree with the intrusion angle of the interpellant, that openness around school results itself contributes to a better school. But what I'm happy about is that the interpellant shows commitment that everyone should have equal opportunities for school. That court is formal today, but a lot indicates that it is not real. We have to take that seriously. Many of these things pointed the government at in St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 ‘... and no one was left’. It points out that there are major inequalities in education today. Social differences are reproduced; your background is important to your schooling. We have to reverse this trend, and the Government is on its way, as the Council of State pointed out in its statement. I want to draw out something that I think needs to be done to reduce the drop-off. Point 1 is early effort at all levels. In the draft State budget, the Government provides enhanced training in Norwegian and math and increased teacher density of 1–4. steps. Why is it important for higher education? Well, making sure that all early masters basic skills will increase your chances of completing your school. What you lose early in school is very difficult to pick up later. However, early intervention is also about taking early action at other levels, at high school and in higher education. You have to catch those who are in danger of falling off early, and make sure a race adapted to the individual student. This applies to students with a majority and minority background. The transition between levels needs to be improved, especially between secondary and secondary education. The advisory service plays an important role here. Many people who don't complete high school today fall off because they've chosen the wrong ones initially. Strengthening and improving the provision of counselling services in secondary schools and improving career guidance in all counties can help reduce some of the challenges. Education choices, where secondary school students can try different directions in higher education, may also help to reduce the chances of choosing a wrong choice. Then it is important to look at the content and design of higher education, especially on the professional study programmes, where we know that the dropout is the largest. It's about professionally what they call theory, that is, the common subjects. If you are going to be an electrician or a car mechanic, you need to be able to math, and you need to know English, but the training can be made more relevant to the profession in which you are trained. If you see the utility of things, the motivation could be better. The number of apprenticeship places needs to be increased. Learning time is part of the education for many, and then they have to have an apprenticeship. It is neither helpful to increase the status of the professions nor to motivate students more that they may not be given an apprenticeship. There are no simple solutions to the issue of non-response. However, a small point of light that emerges from the NIFU STEP study on disfellowshipping and non-retirement in secondary education is that of the 20 pst. who do not complete the course successfully in all the subjects, there were very many who were close. They might have struck in one or two subjects. With early effort, closer follow-up and more flexible running, many of these can get through. We know through research that background has something to say, and that social differences are reproduced. We have to do even more to make sure that everyone has a real equal opportunity for education. Earlier this autumn, the Karlsen Committee presented its report on future vocational training and vocational training. Some of the things I've pointed out now, the selection also points to, in addition to having many other suggestions. The government has announced its own big message of competence, to which the Council of State was referring, as among others. will follow up on the Karlsen Committee. I look forward to that message, and hope it will give even more answers on how to reduce the drop-off.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e295	The fact that young people choose to quit school is a symptom that not everything is as it should be in Skule-Noreg, and although this is a particularly big problem among many groups and on some levels of study, it is a general problem that is falling widely, and I therefore think it is right to focus on conditions that make many elephants not to complete the further education. There's been a expectation in Norway that all the elephants, whatever their motivation, are going on. I'm busy that one should also have respect for the young human beings who choose something other than further education. I come from Valdres, and there I know a lot of young people, often boys, who didn't finish the job, but who chose to go straight to work. They often went on for a week or a month, and then on a professional level. In meeting with professionals, they felt that the subjects were far too little adapted to the real world and the profession they wanted to train for. Who hasn't met the guy who went through ten years of school, with the only motivation to start in the profession, because there he was finally going to be able to run with what he had been looking for, whether it was meddling a car, creating a log house or programming computers? This is a human being who thought it was a gift to turn into an engine, but who didn't think it was as rewarding to have to learn about the construction of the Greatness or the court pyramid. I therefore believe that the best solution to reduce the decline in secondary education is to reduce the theory component in the professional field, and this has been suggested many times by the Progress Party. Unfortunately, the government parties have voted against our proposals. The advisory services in the Norwegian school are too poor today. Theoreticians are very often present in advisory offices, and often have little competence in professional and professional matters. I think I met a young girl who was a student in further education, who went to study-specializing. She told me that her greatest dream was to be a cook. I asked her why all the days she was still on the study-specializing, and she told her advisor on the youth ball had said to her: Well, you have such good characters, so you should look into the study-specializing. She did as the counselor said. Preventing rejection and withdrawal is ultimately about custom training – the scope everyone loves to use, but few understand what it means. Not all elephants are able, willing or able to gain study or professional competence, and society, school and politicians must take on board this. I am a lecturer who is soon finished, and I meet a lot of people who teach in a continuing school with a solid professional and pedagogical competence, and who do a great job. They really burn for what they do, and they love to impart knowledge. But they're pretty disappointed, because they're often responsible for up to 30 elephants, and all of these students aren't as dedicated to their subject, and many fall from within the year. They know, however, that all 30 students have a statutory right to appropriate training, and this must be fulfilled by the teacher or the teacher, in any case. I have often been asked: how far should the adapted training go? Is it meant that the teacher should labor on the elephant by providing them with customized teaching arrangements when the student himself is not willing to learn and to make an effort? This is a question I have good reason to get a good answer to. I've met lecturers who think the student is responsible for her own learning, and I've met those who wanted to work and toil 24 hours a day to give an unmotivated individual life all the custom training she can do, but then the student ends up in further education anyway, and the teacher ends up feeling a failure. Learning is hard work, and it requires an effort on the part of the individual student. We cannot expect a simple teacher in a secondary school with scarce resources to be able to give all the students they need, unless the students themselves are motivated to learn the subject. The most important thing to prevent further school failure is, in my opinion, to reduce the theory of many professionals, improve the advisory services and, not least, to communicate an attitude across society that knowledge is cool, that it is worth doing well, and that knowledge requires hard work. In addition, we must accept that not all people want to go to higher education, and the competence of these people must be valued on the same line as academic knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e314	The issue of waste in Norwegian school is great, and I am happy to hear that the Council of State believes this is one of the most serious problems we have. I think there's a very broad consensus that it actually is. The problem of immigration is even greater, although we all believe that this is a general challenge for the Norwegian school. It is as the interpellant said, not to be surprised that when you sit on the school bench for ten years and struggle through elementary school without getting anything special – which you must expect to have happened when you leave primary school without being able to read and write – at some point gets tired. That's maybe a lot of what the non-response statistics show. The councils were in the middle of an early effort. There is also a large and broad consensus on this. The Committee has just completed its examination of St.meld. No 31 for 2007-2008, and will debate on the next Friday. There is a great deal of agreement on early action. There is also a great deal of consensus that we need to get rid of the wait-and-see attitude described in the message about exactly these issues. But then the question is what do you do? I did not hear the council mention locally active school ownership with one single word in its post. It scares me a little bit. In fact, we are totally dependent on the municipalities or county municipalities, depending on whether we are at primary or secondary level, in order to achieve our objectives in school policy. We need to activate the local debate about what active school ownership should actually contain locally. That's what the interpellant Oslo said. Oslo is one of the municipalities that now shows us the good examples around. School issues have been addressed there. You make demands. You make demands on school managers, you make demands on the whole system, and you actually measure the results. I think that's now reflected in the performance of the national tests. It's brilliant what you get. So how do you get to the local active school ownership? Then we get to openness, and maybe the representative Kernli then understands why you actually have to have openness. A local, good school debate must start with a good knowledge of what are the challenges in school. How can you do that without actually having transparency about the results and getting good analysis of the challenges? I think that is the simple answer to the question asked by the representative of Kernli. I would also like to remind you that the Right had a proposal, Document No. 8:55 for 2006-2007, where we made twelve concrete proposals on the issue of non-response in school. Most of them were dismayed. In fact, we got in touch with a couple-tree, which has been further processed. The proposals concerned such things as openness and free homework. There was an exchange of information between primary and secondary schools, which we know is a major challenge. We proposed extended trials on the municipal operation of secondary schools, just to improve the flow between primary and secondary levels. We were in the midst of advice, which in the previous talk talked a lot about, for having competent advice on this is very important. We had suggestions about industry-driven incubators; we all know why it's stopped. I think it would have been quite so life-giving in terms of part of these challenges, if we had got business much more active in the content of vocational education. We also had a proposal on apprenticeship places, because it's not just getting apprenticeship places, we're also going to get good people for the apprentices. There are a lot of companies out there that don't know how to handle an apprentice. In fact, the state and the ministry have a role to play in getting good reception places. Non-response is a very central issue. It's going to be big too. I hope that we will gradually get a grip on the challenges, but when one third ends before the study is finished, I don't think we're going to look at it easily. Knowledge is at the heart of the future. If you don't have knowledge, you're at least at a much greater risk of falling outside. That's where I think immigrant boys are actually special -- then the road is very short to the outside closet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e331	The biggest societal challenge facing Norway is the drop-out in high school. Too many students don't complete high school. This didn't have to be a problem if the students who didn't complete high school had something to go to, had a meaningful life, had felt valuable and felt useful. But it's not like that. We know that too many of the students who don't complete high school peak the statistics on all of the negative barometers we have, and thus we have a great responsibility as politicians and as big ones. I am very pleased that this government has taken exactly this responsibility. Absence starts much earlier than in high school. It's in high school symptoms show up. That's when it turns out that the students have fallen out a lot earlier. The effort this government has made in kindergartens and full kindergarten development is a revolution and is incredibly important for how the children will be able to cope in school in the future. I started this morning with a parent conversation in the kindergarten with my two-and-a-half-year-old son. There I got a form. We went through the language development of my child. They provided good guidance and advice for better language stimulation, to follow-up, and for good cooperation between kindergarten and home to further develop the language. It's incredibly important, and that's what's going on around all the kindergartens and all the schools. Good school/home cooperation is incredibly important. We know that our children are open and very excited when they go to kindergarten and the first few years of school. They're open and educational in terms of numbers, spaces and letters. They feel happiness, they feel mastery, and this mastery feeling we have to make sure that students also have when they leave school. As I have also said before, I am very pleased with what this government has done by focusing on quality and content in school, and not on tax havens. The hours that are put into the 1st to the 4th. class steps, and more teachers at these class steps, allow us to focus on better understanding of numbers and better understanding of reading and writing. It's incredibly important. It's one of the things this government has gotten inspiration from, among other things. Finland, where you can see that you do not have what you have in Norway, namely the social inequality in relation to who succeeds at school and who does not succeed at school. That's because these students get early work done; they get caught up in problems when you see them. It's about this government being about to give the tools that teachers need to do their job. Too many teachers report problems, challenges compared to students. They ask for help, but wait too long before they get the help that both students, teachers and parents have asked for. This is turning this government around. The national tests and screening tests we have are good and important tools for teachers. The effort on the broad student assessment trials spreads like fire in dry grass around the country. You can see that the teachers have for a long time had too bad tools to assess the students and to give students a good feedback on what I am capable of, what I am mastering, what the next thing I'm going to stretch to is, and how I'm developing professionally. This is incredibly important. We've put it in system. When this project period is almost over, we're going to find a good system for the whole school. We have been committed to the counselling service – many have been involved. But I also want to highlight the efforts of school libraries and the development of school libraries. Libraries, which should really be the very heart of school, have for too long not received the attention they need. Now we're launching a school library program developing the quality of the school libraries, which is going to be incredibly important for students' learning. In addition, the Karlsen Committee has made many important proposals for vocational training, as it is in the field of vocational training that most of the students drop out, among others. that counties, municipalities and the State are responsible for undertaking to follow up and take in apprentices in the future. I am very pleased that this government has invested in quality in school, and not in tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e354	Let me also thank the interpellant for bringing up a very important topic. It was these figures that shocked me when I got into the education committee and saw how many people actually couldn't complete high school. Let me start by commenting on some of what the Council of State said. A mandatory offer for 5-year-olds may not be an offer. If you are going to make a mandatory arrangement for the 5-year-olds to equip them for school, I ask myself why you can't put all the measures in place for the 6-year-olds to equip them for school. This is a sneaking-in of the school start for the 5-year-olds, and let me say – as if it were a surprise! – that this is not the Christian People’s Party for. In the case of cash support, the discussion here sounds as if it lasts from 0 to 6 years. It doesn't! It lasts from 0 to 3 years. When pedagogues give us clear feedback that we need to get our parents on the track, it's quite scary when we now talk about non-response, that some 0-3-year-olds spend time with their parents, are viewed as a reason for the dropout. I believe this is a rhetoric that informs me that the parents are unable to take responsibility for their children. I'll warn you against that. When one of three does not complete secondary education, as a society, we have failed to give all children and young people an opportunity for education and work. Especially bad we have heard that this is for multicultural youth, especially boys. The most important thing is to remember that in these figures there are also students who for some reason have crossed a subject, or have re-elected, or have moved. The reasons can be many. Some are good, some are bad, but I think it's a fact that many of the people included in these statistics are also found in social security statistics. It is important that we take it seriously when action is to be taken to ensure that more people complete higher education. I've asked myself, when only 56 pst. Does high school finish in normal time, do we have a proper school? We should have asked ourselves about this as the educational policy officer in this country. I think we've forgotten that we've got a theorized school, which has made very many of the practically strong students who have great skills not get masters' arenas. When we put early effort in focus, I don't disagree with that. But at the same time, there is little doubt that what we've now seen in high school is one of the biggest challenges in school: theories of education, trouble-related challenges and many teachers who are afraid to work at this very stage. There's reason to believe that this continues to reproduce and leads to a dramatic high drop-out rate in high school. I'm glad there's a big message coming from high school. I don't think we need a new reform, but I think we need to think about what we do when we think about adapted training. What are you good at? Or we're like, what are you bad at? I think we have to think more of the first and less of the last if we're going to be able to create master arenas. I don't think there's any simple solution to the drop-off problem. Although we get a better counselling service, even if we get a more practical school – which can be important partial solutions – I think it is the local space that is the most important. There are an incredible number of local schools that have good ideas about how they want to solve the issue of non-response. The Christian People's Party has taken it seriously, and in our alternative budget we have put in a pot of money from which people can apply for support for good action. Some teachers have said to me: What I need is one who can travel around and wake up the pod when he doesn't. I need one that I can release, one that can take the conversation about what's challenging, to get things in the right place again. I need to free one more to do one or the other. If we find good solutions locally, I think that based on that, we can make good solutions centrally. Let me say one last thing that I think we're forgetting far too much: we can never see school policy in isolation. We also need to look at social development and the society in which the school operates. That's why I think that the lack of effort on the red-green side of family policy, seeing the relationship between parents, family and school and getting involved, makes us unable to address this in a whole way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e377	To the last speaker, I can say that in Sogn and Fjordane we have environmental coordinators at all of the continuing schools, such as. have a responsibility for hubbubs and to remove them if they do not stand up. Departure is a serious problem. Each third young person does not undertake any further training. This is something we who are responsible for education, must do our best to change. I totally agree with the interpellant that the basic skills like reading and writing are important factors. Going in early to solve the problem is open important. I thank you for a good and important interpellation, and the Council of State gave good answers to what we do to meet the problems. I want to highlight some important moments. When I talk to the students themselves about what they think is important, they say that advice needs to be improved. It is not enough to watch movies about different professions, or to sit online and search the same as friends. Counselors must play a much more important role than they do today. Those to be advisers must have the necessary insight into the service to be provided. The consulting service has already been strengthened. I am pleased that the Centre Party will work for a better service in the future, and hopefully after that a separate consultant training course will be held. It is often not enough to be a free teacher to be a consultant. It requires knowledge of a range of educational, professional and labour markets, and not least of how to advise young people on the basis of their abilities. The good adviser must know to tell the youth what is expected of them in the profession they are looking for. Error selection is an important factor in non-response statistics, and in our opinion, a self-consultant education is a good idea. In St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007 ‘and no one was left’. facilitating the transition between school levels. It is not necessarily correct to start a blank sheet when you move on to the next sheet. I've talked to teachers who are suspicious that it's going too long after they start school before they know about special needs that individual lives have. An insecure 15-year-old who needs extra support at school is probably not the one who is willing to talk to his teacher about further education and tells him that he used to get support advice in Norwegian. We must dare to take responsibility for the individual and ensure that the information follows the student, and that the arrangements he has had are taken into consideration when he comes over to the future. I have heard that there will be a debt on the payroll in this context. We can't have it that way. We have to get away from waiting-and-see to be leading was. Language tests at the health centre of four-year-olds, enough resources for special education, pedagogical-psychological services and child and youth psychiatric outpatient clinics, assistant hours and small enough classes to allow contact teachers to follow up the individual student and to see the needs at an early stage, all these elements must be involved if we are to be able to capture those who are at risk of dropping out of further education when it comes to that point. A good measure that has also been mentioned here, both to enable young people to make the right choices and to improve cooperation between school levels, is a matter of choice. This will allow students to experience a bit of everyday life with one or more subjects in the future. This is one of many success factors. I'm glad that the Center Party and the Government have given a lot of remorse. We need to make sure that our youth completes a further race. This is the most important thing we can do for them. No hurry to become a number in the drop-outs statistics. Departure has been and will continue to have our full attention in the work of creating a good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e399	First, I would like to thank my associate Kari Lise Holmberg and others for their constructive contributions to the discussion here on a very important topic. I have my daily work in high school. I've been working there with Norwegian, history and social science for almost 30 years, so I actually know a little bit about what we're talking about here. I work at a school with approx. 500 students. We have about 20 different nationalities represented, but we have almost no drop-outs, fortunately. Let's talk about the recipe later. School should be an arena where all groups should have equal chances of success, it's called. Then my question is, what do we understand by succeeding? Does it mean professional letter and/or study competence? If it does, we just have to be so honest and say that everyone can't succeed. They have no options, no matter what effort we put in. For abilities and interests are divided differently regardless of ethnicity and gender. But we have to remember that everyone is equally worth it. We need new targets and new paths so that everyone has an opportunity to correct their backs. In the Left's view, school dropout is one of the biggest challenges many others have faced here. We know that one in three does not achieve study or professional competence. And so my claim is, they might not have to do that either to get a good life and to succeed. We know that in the professional fields of study the problems are greatest. Left wants, as it also sounds like there's a broad consensus about here, that we put effort in primary school as early as possible, so that students have basic skills when they go on. In the opinion of the left, the recipe is not longer than the hour. Long school days do not promote learning, my claim and experience – rather, on the contrary: a sheep with rented and unconcentrated children as a result. Rather, we have to look at how we can increase learning outcomes in the hours they are actually at school, and of course we have to increase the special educational effort. Preventing wrong choices through better advice will be very important, and the Left is in favour of getting a master’s degree in counseling over time. We also need to give teachers more competence through both improved basic and systematic further education, because professionally qualified teachers such as safe adults are of course important to combat non-response. So the Left, as many others have been concerned about here, believes that the professional professions need to be given a stronger status by upgrading the school, giving teachers the opportunity for further education and, not least, strengthening cooperation with the labour market. We need more flexible and practical training pathways for the unemployed. Even in early childhood, many students can actually benefit from being out of school for training. Vocational students must receive more practical training. That's essentially the conclusion. Experimental projects with practical letters and alternative learning arenas that are more project-oriented but do not remove students from school can also be a solution for many. So professional letters are not a realistic goal for many. On the other hand, it can be a certificate of competence. Many of those who drop out of school do because their goals are not adapted to their possibilities. It is important to increase the number of apprenticeships and to have a less bureaucratic and more uniform system of grants for enterprises taking in apprentices. Let me also point out another important element in the waste discussion. Many of those who have left school and have lost their jobs, we never have been in the labour market. We can't have it that way. That's going to be our big social problem. There's a big split. We all have to get an opportunity to right our backs, know something, and we have to respect them at whatever level they are. If they do a job and earn their wages, they do a real job. So let's get reforms that are based on reality and not on how you see it from a desk. We've had too much of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e420	I am very pleased with the theme that has been raised today, and for the good descriptions of the situation that has been given by both the Council of State and many of the debaters, perhaps best put together in the representative Lena Jensen said, that this is the greatest social challenge we are facing. It is important that there is an angle of early-age effort in relation to kindergartens and language training, as well as what has been announced by the Council of State: new quality measures in kindergartens. I am also pleased that the Council of State said that it is never too late, and that we need to put in place stronger measures in the form of counselling and alternative teaching arrangements in high school and, among other things, that. Gorm Kjernli was in, that's enough apprenticeships. This also applies to what the Council of State said about much more width, including. the introduction of letters of practice and evidence of competence, that it is the way to proceed in the light of those who fail to do what the previous speaker described, with regard to professional letters, etc. But I also think it is important to look into the practical situation, the concrete situation that many students and families experience in relation to high school. What I'm looking at closely is that, after struggling through high school, students, unfortunately some of them, get into high school -- and they're still young -- suddenly discover that it's actually voluntary if they're going to meet at school tomorrow or not. For the first time in life it sinks in that tomorrow they may not go to school. As a result, some people find out that they can stay at home, that they can go to town – think of something. This often coincides with the fact that they are in those families where there is little responsibility, especially good resources, when it comes to following up, hanging on them and making sure they don't get into the wrong track. What I see then is that it's very different what's happening. In order to take the worst variant, some may experience that the only thing that happens is that after a few months a letter comes from what is called the follow-up service, offering alternatives. Others experience quite active schools and active initiatives that are much better. What I think we should consider is bringing together the effort towards the third that does not complete high school, in one hand, that is, at school, giving the school responsibility to follow up the students until they're 18 years old. This means coordinating, bringing together, bringing together all the measures and instruments of various public bodies, which are currently spread across several hands, in relation to practical places, vocational training courses, language courses, etc. When you see that there are students who are not able to be in a class situation, are unable to complete that course, the school should not let go of them, not look at them taking some laps in the city and perhaps getting away for good, but instead sit down and figure out how to sew a practical arrangement. It is then the school that has to dispose of all the means, the responsibility must lie there, among those who know these students and these families best. If it were to end up being a job in a store for a period of time, the difference from what is now, that it is not just going to happen – that it may not just be a few weeks before you end up in the store again – but that it can be combined with some price, some update, accounting course, which may qualify for a stable professional situation, if that is what becomes the option. Or you might eventually come back to school again. So the school has to be there and make sure you're not in the loose air until you're 18 years old, and the students have to feel that they're connected to the school. I believe that there will be much greater scope for appropriate offers for all, that there will be many well-adapted solutions, and that no one will go too far in lye and cold water. I hope we can also go into that debate. It's very good what we're discussing about what should happen in advance of high school, from kindergarten. It's absolutely fundamental, but we also have to look at stronger mechanisms into the high school itself. I just want to end by saying that when it comes to what we're doing with high school to avoid creating a climate of increased apostasy, I think what's now adopted in Oslo City Council about introducing clean character recordings – that is, clearing up A and B schools – is a dangerous development. If you bring together the weakest students, who have the weakest professional qualifications, in some schools, I think it's going to be harder to work with the dropout. I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of that issue in connection with today's interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e446	No one disagrees with the fact that high school dropout is a major problem and a challenge. This is a complex problem, and there are no simple answers and no simple solutions to it. Several measures are required at different levels. Absence at secondary school can be a result of parents’ social background. The reason for this can also be general school fatigue and refusal to study theory, which can be solved by providing better practical training in the field. Another reason that emerges is the level of Norwegian knowledge. This is particularly true of students with a minority background, although it is increasingly apparent that ethnic Norwegian students are also struggling to complete higher education because of language problems. I would like to point out three things that are crucial in this debate. One is an early effort, something more speakers have been about. This is one of the common denominators for high school dropouts. Pupils who fall away are often students who labor in primary school. Research shows that there is a link between secondary and secondary school qualifications. That is why we in the Workers' Party are pleased that the Government in the budget announces that they will increase their efforts for special education in primary school. The earlier we catch these students, the easier it gets. In the case of Norwegian training, we believe in the Workers' Party that if we are to succeed in this, we should have an ambition that all children can Norwegian when they start school. That is why we are also pleased that the statutory right to children's playground from the autumn of 2009 will help us to achieve this goal, alongside the fact that we will continue to have a great deal of effort in terms of free core time for the five-year-olds. There are children who don't get caught when they don't go to kindergarten. In terms of social background, we believe that a weak social background can be compensated by providing educational assistance to all students, for one of the areas where social background is involved is the professional follow-up of students from home. If we look at the number of participants in homework provision around the country, we will understand how important the offer is, how important it is, what role it plays. We can also see that most people are involved in the provision of counselling services in areas where ethnic minorities are in the majority. Finally, I want to get into the interpellant in its first article. It is possible that I have misunderstood, but I believe the interpellant said that the parents' view of education also has a meaning. I still have the pleasure of seeing parents who are not positive about children's education, regardless of social background and ethnicity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e461	I think it was made a good post earlier today by the representative of Blåfjelldal. She was interested in some of what I also think is very important, namely that education should be cool. It's going to be cool to succeed too, we're going to be allowed to say that, and we're going to be allowed to be proud of it. A year ago, in the middle of an election, I was at a meeting with some other politicians in Westfold, a very unofficial meeting with, among other things. Immigrant youth in exactly the danger you're talking about here. There was one thing everyone actually wanted -- it's probably bad to say it in a socialist society that we live today: they wanted to be rich, they wanted to be successful, they actually wanted to do like others, they wanted to drive a nice car, they wanted to have a good job. But that might be where there's a difference between us on the right-hand side of politics and the red-green ones. For us, it's important that you succeed. As a future representative, possibly, and a partyman in the Workers' Party, Martin Kolberg, says, "We shall take the kingdoms." Why do we have to take the rich? Why should we be looking to take those who are able to succeed, those who are able to build up from starting with two empty hands, whether it's at school or it's getting their skills through hard work? That's why I think we can't look at drop-out in school as an isolated problem for school, it's a problem that mirrors a society. We have to be very careful not to create a society where a life of social security for young people is seen as an alternative among these. Then we've lost. And even worse, as we might see today's trend: we have to stay awake to create a society where it's actually easier to become rich through crime than through hard work, education and walking. Even I have a foreign father and Norwegian mother, and I have taken a long education myself, so I believe it is possible. Everyone can take an education in Norway today, if you like. But I also think, as the Blåfjelldal representative in the past was here, that it should be allowed to succeed even without necessarily having formal education. It should be allowed to work, and we have examples in Norway of both immigrants and others who have managed to work up from the start with two empty hands, and who today appear to be rich. I think we should take care of them and use them as positive examples, and not have an attitude where we should be looking to take the rat on them, as many have expressed. At least I appreciate the successful, I'm not jealous of them. My commitment as a politician is for those who fail, and then I rejoice over everyone who succeeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e470	This debate today is about combating poverty, and it is about equal opportunities. We're in danger of getting a situation where we reproduce poverty, if we can't break the generational bonds that quickly follow each other in failing to succeed at school. It's doing incredibly well locally, in addition to what the government delivers. In Eastfold, among others We've done a very thorough study of what makes young people drop out of high school. What wasn't very eye-catching, maybe, but which was very dominant in the picture, was that the students also had social problems at home. And it goes without saying that if there's a lot of problems between parents, uncertainty at home, maybe there's violence, other kinds of problems, it also makes it very difficult to concentrate on what to do when you're at school, that's learning. That means that we still have to have a broad community effort to deal with those problems. Another thing is that we know that very many, especially immigrant boys, feel that they fall between two different cultures. And when you fall between two different cultures, at least it's important to have a community that invites you into the community. I often find it a pity when we have integration debates – and we see it from municipality to municipality – that some political parties, without naming, always help to bring the problems forward instead of the solutions. I think a lot is about meeting people not just with demands or sewing cushions under their arms, but meeting people with a positive expectation that you can succeed. It's about welcoming. Furthermore, in Eastfold, in view of learning ability, we have started projects with fruit and greenery and lunch. At Glemmen secondary school in Fredrikstad, for example. There are quite a number, including immigrant youth, who meet up for breakfast every morning, and for many young people in high school, it may also be that the only proper adult contact you get comes through, among other things. These lunch meetings, where you get the opportunity to sit down and talk about other things. I think we need more environmental contacts out in high school. There are too many people who are allowed to disappear without anyone grasping it. In Eastfold, we will establish environmental contacts in every region that address those who do not attend school. We need stronger cooperation between high school and high school. It can't be that we see these things isolated; just as important is, as the Christian People's Party was in place, the cooperation between school and family. But here there are often some language problems, and if you want to get the conversation to go right, we should also look at the possibilities of interpreting services to a much greater extent than what you've had up to now. It's doing incredibly well from the government's side, and it's doing very well locally, which the government can take a look at. Then we'll be so loud that we can steal good ideas from each other, but I think that when we come to this kind of discussion and integration debate, it has to be about meeting people with a positive expectation, and not expecting people to fail.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e485	I think a lot of good things have come into play in this debate. I'm glad. I am also pleased that we have a sample that will go through the entire school cycle and look at the important issues that we have discussed here today. I hope that at least two things can remain after this debate. It is that early efforts are essential and that all children must be seen and valued. So said Dagrun Eriksen in his post: we find the good solutions locally. That's so true, that's where it happens, and that's where all the effort needs to be corrected. I want to end this debate by drawing up just some good local solutions that show that there are many ways we can do things, that there are many ways to go. One example is Hjalmar Johansen secondary school in Skien, which has a very good offer. They have set up their own introduction course specifically aimed at young people, which provides ample room for adaptation, and which is a good preparation for secondary school. Then there's Øystese school in Hardanger. It's the school where no one drops out. There's no one here that ends before exams are avoided. The school's ten bids should be hung in all secondary schools. The essence of the ten commandments is that you are seen, you are required, and you are followed up. The last example I'm going to take is from Vinje Municipality in Telemark. They have recently received Amnesty's prize for good integration work. The evaluation report that they have prepared states that it has been enriching for kindergarten and children’s settings, and not least for staff. But you struggle with the attitudes of some Norwegian kids. We have challenges in this field. It is now important that we address the challenges, and that we do something with them, and thereby, with good prevention work, prevent as many as we do today from interrupting the school cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e502	I thought both the representative Bøhler and the representative Blåfjelldal kept good and interesting posts on things that went more directly to further education, and I would like to comment on them. I just want to make it clear first that we didn't intend to reduce the requirements of knowledge about the construction of the Greatness, so that one might understand it from this pulpit. On the contrary, we want to make sure that they are clear and present both in the base ball and in the secondary school. The representative of Blåfjelldal addressed the problem that there may still be a difference in status – although he is not formally there, and even though we are better than others between different forward races – with too little practical entrances there. I have similar experiences myself. I was in Fromand not so long ago, and there I met a student who went on the plant machine driver line, who said to me: Why should I read the poem of Shakespeare in English, when I need it, is to be able to order parts in English and read manuals in English. The curriculum doesn't say anything about it, it says that we're going to have a good knowledge of English literature back to the 1500s. I actually think we have to go into that debate and see if we have curriculums, pedagogics, teachers, education, which is directed towards parts of the student group and not others. The representative Bohemian takes up similar problem settings, and I think his thoughts about this, about the group falling between all the chairs today, are very interesting, and they are among the things we're going to take with us in the work on what I referred to as «In practice». I also want to say that what we've seen from the period when we had a mix of character-based and geographic recording in Oslo is that the center spheres in Oslo got a more mixed student base, and that many of those who grew up in the center spheres got the opportunity to go to their own promenades, and that it was positive. Finally, the representative Vogt said that everyone should have the opportunity to get a nice car, a good job, make money and be rich. I couldn't have said it better myself: it should be one. I think the difference in politics is that I think everyone should have the opportunity to get a nice car, a good job and a decent money, but today the possibilities are extremely divided. Some grow up so that they have a great chance of it, others have a background that makes it very difficult. In addition, I believe that those who failed to make a lot of money will still have the possibility of a good car and a good and safe job. And that's an important distinction in politics: that the very many who, after all, are not going to be on the statistics of those who care the most, are still going to have the possibilities. And then we can't distribute billions of tax pieces to the richest and lead a policy that allows interest to go up, cut into the public attributions to the SFO, so that the expenses of the families of children increase, etc. I think that's the difference. Thank you for a good debate and an important interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e519	The President is confident that the knowledge of the construction of the Storting will continue to spread to the students of the country. Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e537	Medicine is a great asset when you are ill or in pain. However, errors, too much or uncritical use of drugs can lead to serious adverse reactions with severe health problems and diseases — low water doses prescribed by doctors. Many get side effects that could have been avoided if doctors and patients had better knowledge of the risks and greater availability of proper treatment and detoxification if addiction had occurred. So the theme I'm dealing with, it's not about dependence on high doses or addiction to drugs. It concerns low-dose dependence, adverse reactions and disease arising from it, which are often misinterpreted and misdiagnosed. Low-dose addicts received the first tablet from their doctor in the context of a common life crisis and subsequently develop side effects of therapeutic doses. I believe there is reason to say that this is a major and hidden health problem. The Norwegian Medical Association, in its 2006 progress report, states that it considers that there is a need for public information on drug dependence, that doctors need more knowledge about the proper prescription and alternative approach to the treatment of anxiety and pain conditions, and that a comprehensive range of treatment options for drug addicts should be established. In fact, many institutions provide help to drug addicts and those who rely on high prescribed doses, but the offer is then given by a drug institution that has drug problems in its centre, or a psychiatric institution that has a different focus than the side effects of low-dose drug abuse, which sometimes causes some symptoms that are interpreted as a mental disorder and treated as such. And that might be wrong in cases. I'm not a professional in this field, but among professionals who have knowledge of it, many people think it's not appropriate to integrate drug addicts into a drug institution or a psychiatric institution. Although not so much research has been carried out, psychologist Anne Bolstad at the Bergensklinikken has evaluated as far back as 1998 an action that was taken to provide help to drug addicts, and they believed that there were 200,000 people at that time. Given the increasing use of drugs, there is reason to believe that there may be more today. The drugs that are likely to be the main problem are ‘B’ preparations, i.e. benzodiazepines, valium, stensolids, sleeping aids, happy pills, etc. The Medical Association also writes that the printing of exactly these drugs is a challenge. When does the problem arise? Tallen from Kilen, Konsumentinstitutet Mediken och Hälsa, in Sweden, shows that 80 pst. were given sedative pills or sleeping pills in a very common life crisis. 13 pst. became dependent during hospitalisation or in the use of analgesics due to a common somatic disorder. So the reason for the discharge is almost always a very common crisis in life or a somatic suffering with pain, for example. during hospitalisation. There may be divorce, death, aggravation, economic crises — crises that belong to life. What distinguishes addicts and drug addicts is that they have started with drugs and continue to use as medical treatment prescribed by doctors. For the doctor this may be due to lack of knowledge and that it is faster and less time consuming to continue printing a pill than to spend time solving a problem that you really don't know how to solve. The patient continues the harmful misuse, not because they are seeking drugs, but because they are seeking to mitigate and relieve symptoms and side effects. Dependency is also an adverse reaction. So these are patients who haven't had a hold on the drug environment, and it's important to stress. So there's a question about how this works. I have found some research on this from Sweden, for example. the report on the experience of the ASTA project, from 1995, from the University of Karlstad, and they are cooperating with this Kilen Institute, which I mentioned in the meantime. They have looked at the reason that many long-term clients remained in the social office despite all the resources that were set up to help them get to work, work training or school. Well over half of long-term clients were users of this type of drug, where there are side effects, both physical and mental, and the side effects were often the cause of people not getting back to work. Then you can ask yourself if this is different in Norway. I don't know, but I don't think so. In view of the Nav reform, it is worrying that side effects of drugs can be an obstacle that is not seen, either by doctors or by Nav. Serious side effects include inactivity, anxiety, depression and fatigue. They recognize this, those who work with those who can't get back to work. Bringing down this use of drugs can be one of the most important keys to getting more people into work and into a better life. The Minister of Health and Welfare is also concerned with preventing health damage, acting and treating at the lowest level. Then it has to be one of the most important things we can start with to prevent people from getting sick of drugs and the treatment they receive. The action ‘Medisin against pills’ was launched following the initiative of the municipal supervisor in Hamar, Georg Morland, and project manager Rolf Torod Olafsen, who himself has experience as a drug addict. The project aims to prevent drug dependence and low-dose dependence in order to enhance the competence of social and health professionals, including the medical profession. They work to establish a permanent resource centre with a recovery and treatment unit. They want to disseminate knowledge about the consequences of drug dependence, and thus, as the only body to be able to identify this with low-dose drug dependence and its consequences. In the spring of 2007, in cooperation with Hedmark Medical Association, they had the first course to be held on this issue and its consequences. I sailed and was intern ing Marte Thorkildsen on the course. I spoke to several of the doctors who were present, and they said very openly that this was new knowledge for them – that is, how medicines sailed in small doses, but perhaps in special mixtures, over a long time went into symptoms and diseases, which were again treated as a disease, but which was actually an adverse reaction to drugs. The target group for the course was doctors and psychiatrists. There were 62 doctors and psychiatrists from all over the country present. There are planned new courses both in Hamar and in Kristiansand now, and it shows that there is great interest in this among the doctors, because I don't think there are any doctors who want to apply their disease to the patients by the printing practice they have. «Medicine against pills» also cooperates with, as I mentioned, Kilen in Sweden and Benzonet in Denmark by psychiatrist Jens Frydenlund. They've created a Nordic network that they want to develop. The network has been named the Nordic Network for Drug Addiction. The former Minister of Health and Welfare, Sylvia Brustad, has been in contact with ‘Medicine against pills’. They were very optimistic after that meeting, but unfortunately they have not heard anything from the central authorities after that. My primary wish now is to have a searchlight on this problem, which I believe is a major health problem. By prescribing drugs in a more careful and knowledgeable way, we can reduce disease. The point is that we're going to be healthy by drugs, not sick by them. The second main objective is to ensure that this project in Hamar, which is unique — not to reduce what is happening elsewhere in the specialist healthcare services related to drug treatment or to psychiatry — must continue its work. They have objectives for their work related to a national function. But at first, I think it's important to secure resources, so that this project continues, and that we get enough knowledge about it to know how to build it. These include both the knowledge of primary medical practitioners throughout the healthcare system and how to create a treatment offer for those who get drug dependence that harms them. My main question to the Council of State will then be whether he will take a positive view of this project and be involved in ensuring that they continue to develop this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e577	There are at least two themes we are discussing here today. One is that we have a job to do to avoid people becoming addicted to drugs. We have to prevent that, and we have to work with the knowledge out of the system so that doctors have a closeness to this problem that makes us avoid people using drugs in such a way that they become addicted to them. And the other thing we're discussing is how we're going to help those who, after all, have become addicted. I agree, of course, with the interpellant that drug dependence and adverse reactions are a major problem for those affected. Proper use of addictive medicinal products can be helpful in difficult situations, such as: in case of severe pain. But there is a risk that they can lead to addiction and serious problems and suffering. It is therefore important to prevent such situations from occurring, and we also need to ensure that those who have problems get the help they need. The prescription and use of such medicinal products involves difficult balances for treatment and patients. There is considerable uncertainty about the extent of drug dependence and drug abuse. So we're trying to figure out the scale. In the National Competence Centre for Commodity Disorders at St. Olavs Hospital, data from the prescribing registry are used to determine how many people are prescribed large doses of painkillers. Fortunately, the results indicate that the number is not large, but the problem does not become less serious for the patients concerned. In the 2009 draft budget, we have proposed 8 million. In order to enhance the competence of decision-makers on drug problems. Problems related to prescription of addictive medicinal products and their follow-up are part of this. Information on the use of medicinal products is readily available to healthcare professionals and users. However, continuous improvement and development of information on medicinal products is being undertaken. Here I can mention that there are team supervisors for health professionals, among others. a self-director for doctors and dentists on prescription and advice on addictive medicinal products. The State Medicines Agency has recently updated a therapeutic recommendation for the use of opioids, i.e. morphine-like drugs, in the treatment of pain, and the University of Oslo Monitoring Centres for Drug Research and Drug Abuse. The Medical Association has its own training activities. Interpellant refers to the fact that ‘supply and treatment are almost absent’ for this patient group. I need to moderate this claim somewhat. Regional health companies report to me that the treatment provision for this patient group is part of the multi-disciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts and in the care provision for mental health. However, unfortunately, the treatment provision for this patient group is not good enough today. The government has therefore proposed strengthening multi-disciplinary specialised treatment of 120 million. kr in the 2009 draft budget. Regional health businesses have reported that more and more people are being referred to for drug dependence. Therefore, more services are established in health regions with a focus on investigation and treatment for addiction. Health businesses are working to further develop the offers to this patient group. I think it's interesting that the interpellant picks up the addiction we can talk about here, not necessarily about classic addictive drugs. Basically, it could also be about what most of us, I think, define as more innocent drugs. You don't normally have a perspective on addiction when you talk about those drugs. However, our assessment is that if the drug use has also led to addiction, whatever its starting point, it is the treatment of addiction problems that healthcare has to use. Then it is clear that a drug addict, a drug addict and a gambling addict should be treated exactly the same. But what's common is a addiction challenge that we think we need to work with within a multidisciplinary specialised treatment. The ‘Medical against pills’ project at Hamar has dealt with some of these issues. As you know, the project received grants from the Health Directorate via the municipality of Hamar in the period 2005-2008. The municipalities of Hamar have also contributed a part-financing. The aim of the State grant scheme is to stimulate municipalities to develop good actions for a time-limited period. When the incentive subsidy ceases, it is up to the municipality to continue the measure under municipal law. The Directorate for Health has informed ‘Medisin against pills’ that the project will no longer receive grants under this grant scheme and that the project will now have to be financed in another way. There are several good professional environments working in the same areas as ‘Medicine against pills’. Centres for Pain Treatment and Complex Suffering at St. Olav's Hospital have the status of National Centre of Competence. Research centres for drugs and addiction at the University of Oslo provide education on drug problems, where drugs and drug use are part of the scheme. The ‘Medicine against pills’ project has applied to the Ministry of Health and Welfare for funding for further operations and for the establishment of a national centre of activity and resources for drug addicts. I would like to ask the Health Directorate to assess the results achieved in the project and the application for a national centre. Such an assessment must be seen in the context of the work done in established professional environments. I would also like to point out the possibility that ‘Medicine against pills’ can cooperate with others, for example: the learning and mastering centres, volunteers and health care user organisations. We'll look at the application, we'll carry out meetings in connection with the project, and then we'll have to deal with the application elsewhere than in the Stortinge pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e603	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am fully aware that funding issues need to be addressed elsewhere than here, but I am pleased with the positive, open attitude of the Council of State indicates that there may be issues in this field that you do not catch up with. I'll say a little bit more about it, because I think it's important to be clear. This is a prescription practice for low-dose B medicines — largely, there may be some others too — that can lead to adverse reactions that are not currently registered, or in which case are misregistered as a disease in themselves or as another type of disorder. The Council of State refers to St. Olav's hospital and National Pain Treatment Competence Centre to estimate the extent of this problem. Then I'd like to point out again that what they're working on is addiction related to large doses of drugs. Here we are talking about low-dose problems that I think are very little registered, so we know little about it. That's right and it's good that it's suggested 8 million. I have to repeat that this is not about drugs; it is not about those who are seeking drugs. I think it's very important to realize that these are people with a completely different background and who continue with a drug abuse that ends up with disease and problems, that they have had some sort of disease or a problem in life that has made them start, and then they can't get out of it. So the doctor keeps writing prescriptions, and then it becomes a disease of it. It's actually something quite different a drug issue. That's why it's also important to see that you're being treated by someone who's a specialist on this. This may be in addition to being an expert on drugs, but there is a need to develop treatment and knowledge of this in particular. Then the Council of State refers to guidance for healthcare professionals and doctors on prescribing these addictive drugs — yes, they get it. The Health Authority’s guidelines include: the maximum use of sedatives by four weeks. Then you can wonder why so many people go on these funds for years and get hurt by it. So somewhere in the system there has to be a lack of knowledge or follow-up. I look forward to the Council meeting with the project ‘Medicine against pills’, and that we can continue working on a field that I think is a lot of mess. I'm absolutely sure we'll save both the individual and society a lot of money if we get a better system on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e618	I don't have much to add in relation to what I said in my post instead. I just want to confirm that I take with me, of course, what the interpellant says about the problem that is being addressed here comes in addition to the points that I particularly touched on in my post, that is, that there is the use of low dose B preparations, and that you don't want to catch users here to the same extent as when prescribing large doses and using classic addictive drugs. This gives us a particular challenge in the prevention strategy. I believe, however, that to the extent that it leads to addiction, my expectation to regional health companies is that they are able to develop knowledge and skills in a wide range of ways to deal with addiction. The feedback I get from the professional community is that you are also very aware of that issue. If that addiction is there as a result of a drug, whether it is there because of high doses of drugs or low doses of drugs or what it is, then as a public health authority, we need to make sure that people with a dependency problem can rightly demand help from us. Something has happened, but not enough. That is why we are also very concerned about investing very heavily in the interdisciplinary – and let me underline the interdisciplinary – specialised treatment in relation to addiction issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e627	We live at a time when the research and pharmaceutical industry has made it possible for people to get help for many kinds of plagues. In the case of physical and mental illness, it's often a pill for everything, as it's called. It's like today, as it's always been, that people come into life situations where they are exposed to things that make them get a deep depression or that they get a grief. Then it helps to get medicines that can make that situation easier. Pills dampen the pain, but they don't take away the cause. It also applies to physical illness. You can get help to relieve pain, but the very cause doesn't go away. But it's also that in time it disappears. If you have been given drugs that are addictive, you sometimes have to rely on the tablets or on the medicine to work. It's no longer the original situation that makes you have to have drugs, but the fact that the body is used to getting it. Any type of medicine has some kind of side effect, even physically. These are side effects on the kidney, the heart and others, which are often given little attention. When patients try to cut off the drugs, they sometimes experience withdrawal reactions, and they realize that they have a dependency that they try to hide and feel shame over. The patients have very great faith in their doctor. They rely on the doctors, and it is the doctors who prescribe medicine and treatment. It may be easy for many doctors to continue to prescribe medicines and tablets that patients feel help them to function, instead of offering anything else. Many of those who use drugs to treat mental health problems — which were originally, for example, a depression - continues with tablets, instead of perhaps being able to get help from a psychologist or by other means. It's too bad an alternative offer, and sometimes it takes longer. These patients also need to be motivated, and they need to be helped along the way. It's not done with a simple grip to help them out of addiction. As was said earlier here by the interpellant, these patients do not perceive themselves as drug users. They have not applied for this medication to achieve a drug, but to get help, either in a difficult situation or when they have suffered severe pain. Loneliness and isolation are a result. I personally know more people who are in that situation, and who do not experience themselves either as drug addicts or as ill people for that matter, but they know that they are dependent on their drugs, and they are terrified of not getting them. But getting help to get out of this will help them out into society again, out to work again and also to get a better life and a better family situation. It often affects whole families that some people just get sick of drugs. A project was mentioned at Hamar and this with project support. There are many types of action in the health sector that are being launched with project support, and very many are being dropped. We have talked about intermediate departments in the past, but there are also many other projects that are being launched with project support, which, when the project time is over, are unable to continue. This is probably an example of a lack of local authority responsibility for financing actions. When launching good projects, they should be able to continue. It should then be considered as a national responsibility, which is to be financed by the State. With state funding for the health sector, a more comprehensive range of services would be provided, and good care could be developed for patients. The provision of services is also important. The Council of State also mentioned that everyone is not the same – there must be different types of offer. That is something that is being prevented to a large extent today. I can mention one example: anorexia patients, who cannot have freedom of choice as to what kind of offers they should be able to receive, even if there are offers that are adapted to specific user groups. As far as this group is concerned, they should have a special offer, or perhaps more special offers, to help them. I believe that greater responsibility must also be placed on the doctors and on the health services that prescribe medicine. They have to find alternative solutions, they have to follow patients better over time and not let it go automatically in printing addictive drugs over several years – because no one should need them, or at least very few.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e644	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important matter. Drug dependence and adverse reactions have become a major hidden public health issue. No one has an overview of the number of Nordics who are struggling with drug addiction, but professionals believe it is several thousand. Statistics from Kilen in Sweden show that 80 pst. by those seeking help in the field of drug dependence had received tranquilizers in the context of a life crisis. People who come into an addiction situation experience loss of their own identity. Families are disintegrating, they are unable to maintain the job satisfactorily, and the problem of dealing adequately with children often leads to the integration of child protection. Often they become involuntarily dependent on a large auxiliaries, while continuing to use the drug. This is often due to a lack of knowledge, both in users and in the auxiliaries. It is important to distinguish between drug dependence and drug abuse. In Norway, more services are available for drug users, but little is available for drug dependence. Auxiliaries often treat you as a drug addict, and many times you get an offer of detoxification with drug addicts, which is perceived as a stigmatisation. 95 pst. the medicine is prescribed by the prescriber. In many cases, therefore, the health system has to share responsibility for the emergence of addiction. Governments are very concerned about early intervention and prevention efforts in the new interaction reform, which is now under way. Therefore, I assume that this patient group is being taken seriously, and that auxiliaries are better able to provide alternative treatment for patients in crisis. The interpellant refers to the project ‘Medicine against pills’, which has started a very important work in the field. Work shall be preventive and provide knowledge, advice and guidance to users and health services. I agree with inter-pellant Karin Andersen that it is important that the ‘Medicine against pills’ project be continued, but that it is also necessary to initiate measures aimed at the auxiliaries, so that we can increase our competence on how to help people in serious crises with alternative methods of medication.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e663	I don't want to go so much into the problem here, because I feel there are quite a number of other people who have done that. But I think it's a very important matter, and it's not least very important to grasp the fact that we have a distinction between drug users and those who inadvertently get into it with mis-medication or too long-term use of medication. In fact, people take 8 to 10 tablets in the morning, they get very sick, and no one understands any of the world's things, until they get into hospital urgently – then they may not have been able to take on any nourishment or anything, and then it turns out that it's simply mismedication. People who take a lot of medication or get mismed probably need to get into a check-up to see if they've gone too long on the drugs, if they can't take them anymore, etc. Already today, we have a huge resource within health companies and hospitals that we can use to find out about medication in terms of addiction and side effects — and that is the resource that pharmacies are. There we have top trained personnel who are fully capable of carrying out this service, but often there are resources and money on it – all the way there is money going on here. If we had used the pharmacies in the healthcare companies that exist in the whole country, we would also have received a good offer for the patient group to which this applies. I will quote from the 2008 steering paper from the Apoteke Vest HF: ‘Training of patients/patients and staff Good training is a means of mastering the life of chronic illness and to prevent deterioration of the health status. Misuse of medicinal products is a major problem. This may be due to routine failure but also to lack of training and information for personnel and patients/patients. Apoteka West shall contribute to good pharmaceutical management and good training and information procedures in relation to personnel and patients/traffic.» There's actually an opportunity here, but then it's about grabbing it and using it. For what is absolutely certain is that if we are to have an overall patient profile, which sounds very good – for patients not least – it is also important that the counselling service comes out to the institutions in the municipalities. Now I'm not a professional at this, but I'm not quite sure if it's actually the doctor who's best to go in and look at it, maybe it's the pharmacists and the pharmacists who can be the best. I'm asking the question. The point of taking the word here was simply to brief and shed light on the opportunity we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e685	One is at least safe, and it is that both doctors and health authorities need to get more knowledge of this field if there is to be a change in what many patients experience, namely that they get sick from the medicine they get from their regulars. One important and painful point, I think, in this case – including for doctors – is that it may be difficult to realize and accept that the practice that you have actually led to a problem. I have noticed that the Medical Association says that they need more knowledge about proper prescription and alternative approach, and they believe there is a need for a nationwide offer. I have also noticed that ‘Medicine against pills’, at Hamar, is now working on a project called ‘What can the doctor do?’, where they are in close cooperation with primary doctors, precisely to provide the skills that make fewer ports in such a situation that unfortunately often have quite difficult consequences for the individual patient. It's about knowledge, it's about experience benefits, it's about being able to be offered seminars and courses in this field. Because there is no doubt that there is a lack of knowledge in this field, that the knowledge is good – and in parts of the field, this is, as I said, not about drugs or the high-dose use of heavy drugs. Therefore, I am also quite sure that the project ‘Medication against pills’, at Hamar, would like to cooperate with everyone who works in this field. There may not be so many people working on this very thing today, but there are a lot of people working on the drugs, the drugs, the psychopathics, and the drug addiction. I'm not a medically skilled person either, so I don't know how much overlap there is in this. But I'm quite convinced that there are some particular issues related to exactly this type of drug addiction, low-dose addiction, that are not captured by the system we have today. It tells us the patients, and it also reports to the doctors who are working on this at the grassroots, but who do not know exactly how to deal with it. I hope that the result of this interpellation is that we get the problem in focus, and that we start sorting out what we're talking about, and what we're not talking about. Then I also have a hope that you can get to work on the project. This usually requires competence at any medical office and in any healthcare company, but I am not in doubt that there are people who need to be at the forefront of this work. I think we have a good partner in the project ‘Medication against pills’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e696	I will use parts of the speaking time to say that I have listened to the interpellant and to the other posts. As I said, from the project we have received both an application and a request for a meeting. I think this meeting should be already Monday to the week. We'll listen to what's said.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e703	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e719	The consequences of radiation from a number of sources, such as mobile phones, mobile masts and wireless networks, have received too little policy attention. It applies locally, nationally and internationally. More and more people now stand forward and say that they experience discomfort or have become ill as a result of such radiation. Many people experience that they are ridiculed in public — when they stand out with their experiences — and that they are not taken seriously in the healthcare system. An increasing number of people are exposed to ever more sources of radiation – and over an increasing period of time. Children and young people are more vulnerable than before, using mobile phones and wireless networks in kindergartens and schools. Several municipalities have expressed concerns about this. There are good reasons for this, as children and young people are most vulnerable to long-term effects. The development of wireless communications is progressing at a staggering pace. Only 10–15 years ago, the mobile phone was coming in too full – today it is for all practical purposes all-round. Wireless networks we had barely heard about a few years ago. Today, this is very widespread. Wireless communication is increasingly integrated into other products — for example: in games. The left is a technology-optimistic party. That means that we want to apply new technologies to the service of the environment and society. We want that in this area too. But at the same time, we want a deliberate policy on radiation, based on the precautionary principle, because there is uncertainty about the effects. I want to draw up an example that most people know about. Asbestos in its time was shrouded as a marvel material because of its properties. The material was increasingly used, although since the mid-1900s it had been known that the material caused health problems. The interests associated with asbestos were so strong that the critics were not listened to. It went okay for a while – until people got seriously ill, sometimes up to 20 years after exposure. Although the health problems related to asbestos were known early, asbestos was not banned until the mid 1980s. Today there is a total ban on asbestos. There's a broad consensus that it's good. This example illustrates that it can go wrong when interests become so heavily attached to a product or technology that the critics are overlooked. There are considerable benefits to the use of wireless communications — and this is a giant industry. But we now see the contours of what many think are health problems related to this. Therefore, there is a need for a conscious policy — and not an approach based on allowing doubt to benefit business interests. The results of research into this type of radiation are not unambiguous. Some researchers reject the fact that such radiation may have health consequences, while other researchers believe that it is unsafe — or even conclude that health damage may occur or occur. There is therefore considerable uncertainty in research regarding the health consequences of this type of radiation. Many believe that the research base is not sufficient to draw any clear conclusions on these issues. It is precisely this type of uncertainty that should apply the precautionary principle in an area like this. Several also claim that research in this area is so dominated by heavy business interests that researchers who are knowledgeable about the adverse effects of radiation are tens to avoid being discredited. On repeated occasions, I raised with the previous Minister of Health the issues related to radiation, and called for a leading var-approach in dealing with these issues. The responses confirmed the scientific uncertainty with regard to the health impact of this type of radiation, but at the same time rejected the need for further action through a leading var-approach. The Councils of State showed, inter alia: to the maximum levels set by the World Health Organisation. Several claim that these limit values are heavily influenced by strong food and defence interests. This is a problem that was also highlighted in the ‘Fire Point’ of the NRK for some time. The EU Parliament recently adopted the expiry date of radiofrequency emission limit values. The maximum levels shall be re-evaluated and lowered. Several European countries have introduced stricter limit values than those established by the World Health Organisation. The European Environment Agency has recommended using the precautionary principle in relation to radiation from, among others. mobile masts and indicates that this principle is an important part of the EU's environmental policy. It is difficult to understand how Norway, which is to be a leading country in environmental policy, is not among those in charge of border management in this area based precisely on the precautionary principle. Various actors also point to the fact that the guidelines established are primarily designed to protect people from the fact that when exposed over a short period of time, tissues are heated up by radiation. But what about other types of effects? Several refer to research that indicates that radiation can induce a number of other reactions in the body – reactions in the cells of the body and at the level of DNA due to exposure from radiation shall be detected. It is also noted that the data on which the MRLs were based are not sufficient to set long-term exposure limit values, which is often the case. The concern that public health has not been taken care of by the policies established has led many to contact the authorities in order to obtain mobile masters and other sources of radiation removed from schools, kindergartens, the surrounding environment or the workplace. A few metres from the country’s largest kindergarten, the Bekketunet Kindergarten in Stavanger, there is a mobile tower set up on a municipal building. The parents react strongly to this location. Today, there is often a more circumstantial process of replacing a window in a house than it is of setting up a cell tower near e.g. a kindergarten. It should be a minimum that it was notified to the municipality where the masts are to be set up. I also believe that there should be driving rules that allow a manager to set up such masters in relation to kindergartens and school buildings. The left-wing people have locally called for such an arrangement in several municipalities. In meeting with the administration, many people feel that there is no real appeal body for matters that deal with this type of radiation, if they have not got an impact on their view of the State's radiation protection system. The system we have in Norway for dealing with cases in two instances is important. In this respect, many point out that this scheme does not seem to be real. In some municipalities, the concern about radiation is taken seriously. I want to show that, among other things, in the municipality of Oslo, it is decided to terminate all leases for mobile masts located on the buildings of the Education Buildings, on the basis of the pre-war principle. It might be interesting to get the Minister of Health's assessment of this decision in Oslo. The association for eloquent, FELO, has had a large increase in the number of members based on the work of the association on this issue in general and involvement in several specific issues. It is obvious that many feel affected by this topic. I would like to commend FELO for his efforts and also point out that the Norwegian Environment Agency has made a significant effort to put this matter on the agenda. I hope that today's interpellation can be a contribution to increasing attention to this issue. I have also noticed that there is a great and growing interest in questions related to such radiation. I have received a large number of letters and e-mails from people who are concerned, not least from parents, who feel uncertain about the influence their children are being subjected to in kindergartens and in schools. Many also tell of experiences from workplaces where employees have felt uncomfortable and that they have noticed improvements after radiation sources have moved. I do not want to contribute to increased uncertainty and fear. I think that, on the other hand, can be the result if people feel that the authorities locally and centrally do not take their concerns seriously. This is why I have asked the Minister of Health to answer what is the Government's policy in this area, and what actions the Government will take in a leading var-approach to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e765	What is called eloquent sensitivity is often given great attention in the press, and many are concerned about any health damage caused by sources of radiation such as base stations, mobile phones and wireless networks. Some experience symptoms of eloquence sensitivity, as they are associated with exposure from such sources. Research in the field is often distorted in the media. A study that finds that radiation is hazardous to health may receive considerable attention in the media, while other studies, which do not show such links, may not be reported. This means that the population can easily get the wrong idea, may be confused, by what is research status in this area. We live in a time when we're dependent on modern technology, and we have to, I think, accept that there are electromagnetic fields in our environment. Newer sources of electromagnetic fields are significantly weaker than older sources. Technology evolves rapidly, so even though sources have increased, it does not need to mean higher exposure. It is said that a number of countries have introduced lower maximum levels. There's a reason to nuance. A few countries include: Switzerland and Italy have introduced stricter limits, in particular for base stations. China, Russia and some Eastern European countries have always had stricter limits in general, but there is little reason to believe that they are being respected in particular. The interpellant calls for a leading, var-position of how we handle radiation from electromagnetic sources. I believe that our policy in this area is based on the precautionary principle, including: carry out systematic measurements at base stations. The measurements show that the convenient location of the station gives values one thousandth of the limit value. Higher exposure — but still far from the maximum level — may occur from antennas located very close to the population, on roof terraces or on verandas. In such cases, the State Radiation Protection Agency recommends the choice of a different solution, if possible. We see that a leading precautionary approach and good management in this area mean that we achieve much lower exposure than the strict limit values require. I therefore think it may be difficult to find good arguments for even stricter limits than those we already have. The interpellant is concerned about something important when he refers to the fact that from different quarters it is claimed that the WHO maximum levels are influenced by heavy industrial interests. We believe that there is little basis for claiming it. The limits are set by an independent Commission of the International Radiation Protection Organisation, ICNIRP. The Commission consists of four committees with broad expertise in epidemiology, biology, physics and optics. The ICNIRP receives professional input from the WHO, which has recently undergone all available research on low-frequency fields. The work is done by forty researchers from different research environments around the world. The report also points to gaps in research. The WHO makes no recommendations on limit values, but discusses management, risk perception, communication, research needs, etc. State radiation protection here in Norway maintains close contact with the International Radiation Protection Organisation and the WHO. The straw liver is responsible for compliance with the limit values and provides advice on how to reduce exposure from different sources of radiation. This applies, for example: using mobile phones and location of base stations for mobile phones and wireless networks. Let me just stay a little bit, because it's a very common technique when you're going to discuss these kinds of questions to ask if you can trust the international organizations we have in implementing this. I think I've heard the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim make quite powerful contributions to trusting the research of these kind of international organisations, for example. on the climate issue. There are also climate researchers who disagree with the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. But then one is very clear that one has an international organization that has come to its conclusions. That's what you have in this area, too. You have an international organisation, you have the WHO, and you have carried out very thorough analyses of what is available from available research. The international organisations have drawn their conclusions. There are some scientists who disagree with it, and we're going to figure out who we have to trust most in such a context. I believe that a guiding principle in this way must be that we must at least trust from the authorities that these are the international organisations we have at our disposal, on which we must build. It was only tempting to make that additional remark. Nevertheless, the interpellant has a point in that we can never be enough led was. That is why I am pleased that radiation protection has asked that an expert group in Norway be set up to review again the research status and management in this area. That means we're going to review the issues that the interpellant is dealing with: what kind of rules we're going to have to approve, where stations are set up, what kind of leading values of goods are to be based, what kind of complaints are to be made, and how the administration is to be handled. In the Ministry of Health and Welfare, we are setting up such a working group, based on a broad multidisciplinary environment. We set up that group in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport. The last one is important, because there's a lot of them here, for example. base station issues. We need to review administrative practices in this area. It's an attempt to respond very positively to the invitation in the interpellation. In addition — and it is also important — a working group, chaired by the Social and Health Directorate, has already been set up to review the situation of eloquent people. It is a working group consisting of representatives from the Social and Health Directorate, the Public Health Institute, the State Radiation Protection Agency and the association also mentioned by the inter-pellant, the FELO. The aim of that working group is to increase the competence of the healthcare system on eloquents, to strengthen field research and to contribute to good responses to eloquents. Priority should also be given to the provision of guidance material for health professionals. I believe that overall it is important for me, as the responsible State Council, to stress that we follow the recommendations we receive from a broad international research environment. Compared to a leading commodity position, we are evenly below the limit values contained in the recommendations. I believe that there is no reason to doubt those recommendations, except that it is always such that you can of course ask questions about any recommendation. That being said, we want to have the same attitude as the interpellant, i.e. lead, and therefore now two working groups. One who goes right to the core of what is being asked here: what do we know, and how can management work best in this area, and how do we work towards people who believe that radiation has been exposed has led to eloquence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e795	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I had great expectations about it, because I see the Minister of Health as a government council that is safe in his job and that is open to reviewing established positions. In this way, I am disappointed with the answer I have received today. Although it has been shown that a working group will be set up to look at research status, I think the answer is that one is very comfortable with what is today's policy and on the basis on which it is established. The Council of State referred to the climate issue, where the Left has a strong commitment based on international research results. This is a good example of what I think should be used in this area. I've said that even if a single is 20 pst. ensuring that there is a link between what is man-made and what is happening to climate change, there is reason to act on the basis of a precautionary principle. One doesn't go over the ice if it's 30 pst. the ability of a person to go through. This is a very good example of the fact that a person should use the precautionary principle also in relation to these issues. It is also reported in the recordings made to the Norwegian authorities that one cannot guarantee that there are no long-term adverse effects. I do not think the answer given today is well enough to meet the challenges we face. I miss a point of view from the Council of State on what municipalities should do in relation to masters in the vicinity of kindergartens and schools. I miss an arrangement that is more progressive than what a sketcher now sketches. I am familiar with the working group that the department has put down, but a political pressure is needed to get a different progress in that work than it has so far been. I also need an explanation of why Norway should not do as the EU now says: establish that the limit values have expired and should be reduced. What is the reason why Norway, which is to be a leading country in environmental areas by environmental domains — at least theoretically — does not have ambitions to be there in this area? What is the reason why one, unlike many other countries, who are looking at this again, is so comfortable with the situation that one will not look at this in the light of the critical objections that have arisen? There is a clear uncertainty about the long-term effects of radiation, and there is a clear uncertainty about accumulating effects, for example: the situation in a classroom where there are mobile phones, wireless networks, and there may be mobile masts in the vicinity. So I'm going to encourage the Council of States to -- let's say -- to be less water-enhancing and a little bit more open to the critical challenges we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e808	This was a very interesting article. I'm glad to see the follow-up from the left in that way. As I experienced the representative of Kvassheim now, he says that regardless of what international research shows about what is a danger – if there are still some people who believe it is dangerous, it should express the implementation of Norwegian policy. It might be interesting to see the system in if the Left really intends to implement it, if the leading commodity policy is to be based on that principle. We know that one of the most dangerous things you can do in Norway today is drive from Oslo to Trondheim tonight. There is a very great danger that something might go wrong. If the leading commodity position is to be that we have to make sure to ban driving between Trondheim and Oslo, there is an understanding of leading commodity policy that, in my opinion, is far beyond what we can implement in Norwegian policy. It is important for me to stress that we, on the part of the Norwegian authorities, in exactly the same way as when the Left was in government three years ago, focus on all available research data and base our policies on it. The available research data indicate that this is not dangerous with given limit values. We have chosen a policy where we are far below the given limits. So we say anyway we're going to review this one more time. If it's called a passive attitude, I really disagree with Kvassheim – very disagreed. It's not a passive attitude, it's a very active attitude. That's why I'm saying that now we're going to review the entire research material one more time, and we're going to review the entire administrative practice one more time. If that's how we need new rules for the approval of masters, etc., we're going to introduce it. But we have to get suggestions on how to build that legislation, and if we get it, we're going to implement it. It is, in my opinion, taking responsibility as an authority seriously, both by saying that we follow the recommendations of the World Health Organisation, and we follow them in that way that we are far below the MRLs recommended. Anyway, despite that, we're going through it all over again. It is almost such that you could have wanted the Left back in the government to see how they had run the country based on the post Kvassheim had now, but I must manage my desires in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e821	I actually want to praise the Council of State. We have a good protection in Norway. We also had a good protection under the previous government. I am very pleased that the Council of State today says that an expert committee should be set up to review everything that has to do with radiation. It's important, because things are in development, and things don't stand still. But I think it's going to be very difficult to promise any guarantees that no one can be hurt, when we know to what extent the sensitivity of radiation varies from man to man. That's where the big problem lies: how are we going to get a protection that takes care of everyone in society, when the sensitivity is as variable as it is? If we go out to collect knowledge and reports about radiation hazards and radiation problems, we'll see that if we bring in 100 reports, they kind of beat each other in half. There are very different opinions about what is right and where the limit values should be. There is no doubt that we need much more research in this area. Controversy about limit values is, in principle, quite hopeless when we do not have a research that can confirm or rule out whether radiation is harmful – based on how sensitive each individual person is. Putting a limit on that level or level without having such a type of research first becomes meaningless. Then you can argue about limit values as long as you want, but it's actually by getting research in place that you get real boundaries to relate to that that takes care of our own population. The Councils of State were largely concerned with international rules and Russia, and with compliance with the limit values there. Then I can confirm that you do not. There you send so strong signals that at least where I live, I no longer have Telenor, NetCom, or other Norwegian companies. The only thing I can call about is Russia. So that they break international agreements, there's no doubt about it. I disagree a little with the interpellant that compares to asbestos. We all know what damage problems you had with asbestos at one time, but I do not know if it is relevant to compare different types of wireless networks, mobile phones and bases with asbestos. Asbestos is a dust that you can absorb, that can develop cancer. Rays are something completely different. So whatever we choose to do, wireless networks in all their forms, mobile phones in all their forms have come to stay. They're there today, they'll be there in ten years, they'll be there in 20 years. But that doesn't mean we're not going to do a job through research, which is going to take care of most of us, preferably everyone. But it's hard, because we know that we have different sensitivity to radiation. That is why we need to put a much greater effort into research.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e834	I'm very pleased with the interference from the representative Kvassheim. Knowing more about the health effects of the radiation we're exposed to is important, precisely because today we have many more sources of radiation than we had in the past. I also thought that the example of asbestos used by Kvassheim is exciting, because history is full of examples that we only see positive when we get innovations, while we do not always see the health and environmental part of them. Asbestos was used as an example. We could also have used mercury which was a typical innovation that we experienced as good, but as we saw it had some effects that we did not know about. They brominated the flame retardants, which meant that certain things weren't going to fire, we also saw that we had an environmental effect and a health effect that we didn't know about. That's why leading was-holding is very important. It is important that we do not underestimate the problem that has been raised here. There are two things in particular I want to challenge the Council of State. One is the practical policy. The second is what the representative Fredriksen also refers to, which goes on research. This is an area that we don't know enough about today. At least from a layman's stand, to which I belong, I would say that there seems to be a professional disagreement about this, and that international cooperation on this should come into place. I want to use two concrete examples. One is a net mast at the Rykkinnhallen which is located only 40–50 metres from the nearest school. There I thought it was important to find out that if we move the maximum of 50 meters, so that it is 100 meters from the school, we reduce the radiation four times. Another example is a planned mast in the vicinity of the Toppenhaug kindergarten – a matter in which I know the representative Tenden has been involved. Both are examples where children and young people are inside the picture. We also know, as the representative of Kvassheim said in his post, that there are children and young people who are most exposed to radiation. Not least, we experience anxiety for this danger in the community, among parents and among teachers. The Naudcommunications Directorate also says that, as far as possible, we should avoid placing stations close to 100 metres from schools and kindergartens – according to Director Tor Helge Lyngstad. The challenge today is that we have concrete examples that this will not be followed up and that they will be placed closer. Reactions to electromagnetic radiation are known, including: as eloquence. Many report pains in the body, earache, nausea, insomnia, skin tightness, etc. A number of researchers around the world are now calling out a warning and putting radiation from mobile masters and wireless networks in conjunction with an increasing number of diseases. Electromagnetic radiation can become a major public health problem that will affect many individuals. Therefore, it is important to keep the precautionary principle, research and prevention. I am glad that the Council of State comes with its two selections to look at this, one to look at the professional part, and not least the other to record the sequences of those who experience this on the body, so that they are heard. I think it's good that we get a clearer job when it comes to this, that we take a round, that we also have a leading precaution for this problem, and finally that we also get more research in this area. The debate so far has revealed that there is disunity about the professional parts, and research is the best way to get to the depths.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e853	I experience concerns in Akershus about radiation from various masters and transmitters. The development of the emergency network in Bærum has triggered some reactions. As the representative Hareide just said, a mast was set up this summer under 50 meters from the Berger department at Rykkinn School. A mast is planned just under 100 metres from the Toppenhaug kindergarten at Bærum's Works. These issues have led to concerns about the radiation hazard in the local environment, as it turned out that the Emergency Communications Directorate violates its own guidelines on not placing masters close to 100 metres from schools and kindergartens. I have previously addressed this matter with the Minister of Health. I believe it is essential for the trust between the authorities and the population that the guidelines established are followed as far as practicable. I want to praise the good associations and those who have engaged in these matters in Bærum. Many people experience not being taken seriously, even ridiculed. I have personally experienced this after I took up this specific matter with the Minister of Health. In a comment article on the website LO-Currently, my initiative was characterised in a way that I do not want to reproduce in this big room. That article is probably an example of how concerns related to the health consequences of this radiation are attempted to be rejected. The previous Minister of Health confirmed in his reply to the Storting that there are no clear conclusions to subtract from research in this area, which can confirm or invalidate the health impact of this type of radiation. That's why we have to take people seriously when they say they're affected healthily. It is precisely in such cases that an approach based on the precautionary principle is necessary. Radiation is becoming more and more widespread. One might consider the consequences if the health effects prove to be greater than what we see today. I think it is important, as Gunnar Kvassheim mentioned earlier, that some driving rules be put in place to deal with such issues with the background of the var-approach. The left does not want to contribute to increasing uncertainty and fear of these issues, but we have to take seriously that people think they have become ill as a result of radiation, and that people feel uncomfortable by being close to the source of radiation. A deliberate policy in this area is essential for people's confidence in the proper handling of these issues by the administration apparatus. I will end with a challenge to the Minister of Health on whether he understands that people are concerned about the radiation from the emergency network that is now being built in Bærum, when the directorate does not follow its own guidelines. And I would like to encourage the Minister of Health to contribute to the concrete development issues in Bærum being dealt with further in a way that creates confidence among the parties that are currently involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e868	The Progress Party also considers that it is important to identify consistent hazards and any damage that may be associated with radioactive contamination and different types of radiation. Technological developments are fast, and it is therefore important to identify the effects of radiation, so that people, animals and nature do not suffer unnecessary damage. There is considerable uncertainty about the long-term adverse effects, and we therefore believe that more attention should be paid to the total radioactive contamination, such as: children are exposed from the environment as early as birth. It's a completely different situation than it has been in previous generations. This needs to be followed up, and research needs to focus more on the long-term impact of different types of radiation. We have heard over the last few days on TV that, among other things, babycalls can be harmful. It means a lot to parents with young children to know if there's anything in this, or if there's just a scare propaganda. There is still considerable uncertainty among people about radiation damage from live airflows can increase the incidence of cancer. Even though research so far shows that it needs a lot of work, it creates anxiety and fear. In this connection, I would like to refer to Årum in Fredrikstad, where a residential area was set up with a trajectory across the field three years ago. It was Hafslund who was given permission to do so, and it would not cause any danger. This doesn't make the population feel safe. There's been a lot of actions, but they don't make it. Regardless of whether they're applied to no cancer hazard, many of the people living there have caused mental problems, because they still feel that they live in an area where they are exposed to major health risks. Common to all types of radiation is that negative health effects can occur and important societal values can be destroyed. It is therefore important to follow the radiation regulation closely with controls and national monitoring programmes and to strengthen cooperation with international supervisory authorities. The straw supply will follow up with information in the management strategy for electromagnetic fields, together with Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, and it is particularly important that housing-related conditions are closely monitored. There was a radon survey in 158 municipalities, which revealed a great need for information and empowerment in this area. Radon is a natural radiation that is exposed to, but nevertheless it is important to keep working on it. Radon is probably one of the most common causes of cancer, and there are very many people who have housing, and are not aware that they are exposed to that health hazard. So it's important to keep working on that program, and maybe also on support schemes or measures that make people protect themselves in their homes, and that they become aware of the dangers. As a politician, I have received several enquiries that show that many feel anxiety and uncertainty related to the health effects of electromagnetic fields, and among others. this with power lines, as I mentioned. This also applies to an increasing number of areas, such as mobile phones and other technological equipment. We know that evolution is going very fast. There are many economic benefits to technological progress, and these are often benefits that we appreciate very much in our daily lives. It is well asked whether the eagerness to detect negative effects is big enough. Of course, there's a lot of money in it. Of course, research is very important in order not to create undue fear, and to ensure that we do not use things that cause serious damage over time. Research is so much, and it is important to continue researching where there is a possible danger. Some dangers are not seen until many years have passed. A truth is not a truth forever, we know it. It was also mentioned here in connection with asbestos that something that can be seen as very good for a period of time may prove dangerous for another period. We can't stop following developments, we can't stop using everything technology and progress give us, but at least we have to provide a good basis for research, to give us a safe offer, so that we can live our lives on with all the good progress that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e890	I tried to say in my post that I felt that in this area there was enough crack in the professional advice that comes from researchers in the country and abroad, that one should base the precautionary principle, as we do in many other areas. I feel that the Council of State took a little bit of light on the evidence that is now that there are sprawling opinions from research communities in this area. Then I think it's cheap of the Council of State to say that what's status in this area was also status three years ago, when the Left put in government. Politics is a dynamic process in which new knowledge and new experiences allow one to adjust the course and develop policy further. That is what the EU has done when they say this fall – with over 519 votes, I think it was – that they want to adjust the limit values because they have expired. My question to the Minister for Health is: why does he not want Norway to adjust the limit values? Many believe that they have expired, not only the Left, but also the majority of the European Parliament to which I referred, and many others. It is good that there is a group that is about to go through the status. What's not as good is the basic attitude that I think the Council of State has, that he's very comfortable with today's situation. I ask the Council of State to ensure that progress is better in the working group that has been set up than it has been so far. I also want to challenge the Council of State on a point that came up in an answer from former Minister of Health, Brustad, to the undersigned. With reference to the advice given earlier on the location of mobile masts, Brustad promised that she would follow up on how the recommendations given here had been followed up. I would also like to hear what the Minister of Health thinks about the decision taken in Oslo to terminate the agreements to place mobile masters at school building just on the basis of the precautionary principle. Does the Council of State think that's wise? The Council of State would think it wise for the municipalities to discuss this policy, so that an overview of where masters are actually set up and that a person should be given a discussion about a policy on how far they are from, for example, being placed. kindergartens? My ambition has been to participate in putting this matter on the agenda. We've made that clear. I had hoped that we would go further in the direction of leading the goods-position than we have done today. I do not know the answer to the questions that have been raised here today, that is why I ask, and that is why I am humble in relation to the uncertainty that I believe is in this area. This is a matter the Left will follow on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e906	The dynamic nature of the policy is the best example of Kvassheim's representative. People are insecure, they're told. People want answers to some questions, and then they ask the authorities, what's the situation? Can we feel safe? Then I ask myself, how should I answer that question? Well, then I have to brief myself in the landscape. It is in this area that the world community, fortunately, has agreed to establish an international radiation protection organisation and cooperate on it. We have agreed that the World Health Organisation should focus on this field. Then, in cooperation with the World Health Organisation, the International Radiation Protection Organisation has recently undergone all available research. On that basis, the International Radiation Protection Organisation has set some limit values. The policy here in Norway is that we are far below these limits. In most contexts, and in examples that have emerged today, radiation values lie at a thousand percent of these limits. These limit values are set for people to feel safe. The international community says that you follow these limits, you'll feel safe – and we'll be on a thousand of them! So it's always the way that there's uncertainty. That's the best answer I can give if people are safe. Then we're going to stimulate even more knowledge, even more research, and even more review. That is why we have set up an expert group, both for those who feel that they are getting sick, and to review all available research, the need for more research, management rules, what is needed to set up a mast outside a kindergarten, etc., to ensure once again that we are completely in front of it. We may choose to do what the representative of Kvassheim is doing, reducing the limit values even more. In relation to radiation from the North, it doesn't matter because we're well below those limits today. But if you are concerned about symbol politics in this context, we can, of course, reduce the limit values. It will be among the themes that the expert group will address. With all possible respect for this honorary assembly, I feel that the government here is really doing an active, good job. We take people's concerns seriously, we follow the international recommendations, and we review whether we should further strengthen them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e921	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e927	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e1010	In Case No: 3–5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-14.ana.ud2454e1022	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
