ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e83	Honourable co-representatives! Former Mayor and State Council of the Workers' Party Ingvald Ulveseth is dead, 84 years old. Ulveseth was elected to the local government and the chairmanship of Fjell in 1955, at the age of 32. He was rapporteur from 1958 until 1965 and was also a member of the county council in Hordaland. Ingvald Ulveseth became a popular rapporteur. He engaged himself strongly, among others. in the work of building Sotrabrua. Ingvald Ulveseth's special properties were noticed. In 1964 he was brought in as State Secretary at the Ministry of Local Affairs and Labour. And then the road was not long to the Stortinget, where he met as a permanent representative from 1965 until 1973. Here he was an engaged member of the Forest, Watercourse and Industrial Committee and later of the Industry Committee, where he was Vice President. But it was expecting even bigger tasks for the protracted stripe from the mountain. In the fall of 1973 he was again called to Oslo, now as Minister of Industry in Trygve Bratteli's government. He soon became a central person in the development of the newly discovered oil resources in the North Sea, a challenge and task he took on with his stylish hand and great job satisfaction. The public ownership of natural resources was a hunch for Ingvald Ulveseth. Here he was uncompromising. It was the people who were to own and manage the natural resources for the benefit of the community. In 1976 he took leave with Oslo and went to Leikanger in Sogn and Fjordane, where the county office had been waiting for him since 1971. There are deep traces of the politician and socialist Ingvald Ulveseth. He had an unusual intrusion and never lost faith that the results come when you work hard and aim consciously enough. We remember Ingvald Ulveseth with deep respect and shines peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e104	The representative Bendiks Harald Arnesen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Knut Arild Hareide, has taken the seat. The representative, Gunnar Kvassheim, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e117	On behalf of the representatives Leif Helge Kongshaug, Vera Lysklätt and myself, I am delighted to propose a comprehensive action plan for the conservation of the North Atlantic wild species.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e122	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e136	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e143	The position of the Financial Committee concerns a proposal from representatives of the Progress Party to impose zero duty on imports from Swaziland. I think I can say that the whole committee is basically in favour of the intention of the proposal. It goes far into the range of good intentions that we have all had in order to have greater trade with developing countries. In this context, I point out that all the so-called least developed countries, and from 1 January 2008 also all low-income countries, according to the OECD ranking of different countries, have been granted zero customs duties on imports of goods into Norway. The exception is the four major low-income countries India, Vietnam, Pakistan and Nigeria. So initially, this shows a willingness to trade more with those countries that may need it most, not least in a situation where there is a need to develop the economy of the home country. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will show that we have previously proposed that the four major countries of Vietnam, India, Pakistan and Nigeria should also be granted zero duty, and we are proposing it in this matter as well, with effect from 1 January 2009, and this being the case. With regard to the concrete proposals of the Progress Party, I expect them to explain them in more detail. I believe - and I think I also speak on behalf of the Right and the Left at least - that other countries have about the same size and with the same population as Swaziland should be assessed in the context that is natural when entering and evaluating customs duties on imported goods. We assume that the Government continues the work that has so far been going on to assess how we can best contribute to increased trade by lowering customs duties, possibly removing them altogether, and that it does so on an ongoing basis, and I am well told that we also respond to signals from the majority in this way. I also believe that the people of the country will agree that, as far as possible, we are preventing trade barriers between those countries that are least developed, or less developed than what we are, just to be able to lift them. It is and should be a good tradition in Norway that we make a strong contribution to aid, but that we also contribute to and facilitate opportunities for ordinary trade. So with this I take up the minority proposal from the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e156	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e159	Swaziland is the smallest country in southern Africa, and although according to the OECD DAC list it can be classified as a lower middle-income country, there is little doubt that the country has major challenges. UNICEF e.g. In its 2008 report ‘The State of the World’s Children’, Swaziland — and 2006 the number of users — is 16th place on the list of countries with the highest infant mortality rate below five years. Child mortality has also increased from 1990 to today. Another example is that a child born in 2006 had an expected life expectancy of 40 years. In addition, it is estimated by UNICEF that the number of HIV infected can be 33.4 pst. of the population, but that these statistics are uncertain and that the figure is likely to be much higher. The distance from the Norwegian reality, where we, among other things, discusses how much longer each of us here in Norway must work to maintain our pension system because of increasing life expectancy, is therefore enormous. It is with this development policy backbone that I perceive that there is a virtually unisonary majority on the Stortinget to improve Swaziland's market access on the Norwegian market. The matter has also been raised in the budget configuration of the current year’s Foreign Affairs Committee, although the GSP scheme was also discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee in the autumn of 2007 in Innst. S. No 209 for 2006-2007, following a proposal from the Christian People's Party. It may also be added that with effect from 1 January 2008, several amendments to the Norwegian GSP scheme were implemented. In the current year’s budgetary position, an overall Foreign Affairs Committee points out that it is appropriate to consider involving several countries in the zero-tariff scheme of the GSP scheme in order to ensure equal treatment of small economies in southern Africa. We support such a development from the Labour Party, but I would like to stress that it is too early to conclude on the way in which we should do this. As the Labour Party and I see it, there are three different opportunities to ensure Swaziland and other small economies in southern Africa greater market access. One way is to make changes to the agricultural agreement between Norway and the SACU countries. This Agreement is also part of the EFTA-SACU Agreement. It will obviously improve Swaziland's preferences. The main problem, however, is that changes to this agreement will require the involvement of all four EFTA countries and all five SACU countries, and it goes without saying that this will take some time to implement. But systemically, this is likely to be the very best option. The second option is a zero tariff scheme within the GSP. That is, as far as I understand, in line with what the rapporteurs in the proposal for a representative want. As I understand the arguments of the proposers, it is believed that the MUL criteria and the GNI criterion per. the population is not satisfactory for differentiating between different developing countries. Proposals will place greater emphasis on ranking within the UNDP Human Development Index, i.e. the so-called HDI. The government and I believe it is a critical point that we are able to come up with objective criteria when countries are to be differentiated. GNI per year the population is, after all, such a criterion. We have to remember that the HDI index is only one of four criteria when the UN assesses MUL status. I must admit, however, that it is in any case that Swaziland has major challenges, not least related to poverty, HIV and AIDS. A third possible solution is to integrate Swaziland into the special scheme we have for Botswana and Namibia in the GSP. The special treatment of Botswana and Namibia in the GSP scheme can be seen as clearly unfair to Swaziland, given that these countries are located in the same region and that EFTA Norway has a trade agreement with SACU that does not correct discrimination between them. This is true despite the fact that Swaziland has significantly lower GNI per year. resident than Botswana and Namibia. Therefore, it can be argued that once the Norwegian GSP scheme has a special scheme for the two countries mentioned above, it can be extended to Swaziland, in order to achieve greater equal treatment of small economies in southern Africa. This was the case with the Foreign Affairs Committee for approx. A year ago, I think, worded it. The main problem with this solution is that such a special scheme does not comply with the OECD DAC list and it may be contrary to WTO legislation. In other words, there are several procedures for putting life into practice the intentions of a majority on the Stortinget to improve the preferences of Swaziland. As it is today, it is not difficult to say that it seems unreasonable that Swaziland has worse trading conditions than its neighbouring countries Botswana and Namibia. At the same time, Norway has always been a champion of a rule-based international system to promote fair trade in the world. With such an approach as a starting point, we shall have good reasons to establish our own rules on the side of the established trade legislation in the world. Having said that, I nevertheless believe it is obvious that Swaziland needs to improve its conditions vis-à-vis Norway, and I am sure that the Government will come back to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a solution to the matter. I want to stress that many in this room are impatient to find a solution, but I still accept that we need to spend some more time finding the best way Swaziland can improve its market preferences.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e178	As most people in this room know for sure, the Progress Party is basically and ideologically opposed to customs, and in the long run I hope that we actually get rid of all customs, so that we get a world free trade without customs barriers, which other countries have succeeded with no problems. The biggest advantage of free trade, as I see it, is that each individual has the right to choose for himself whether to buy or sell a product, without being tried to prevent by a country which, by means of restrictions, state directives, laws, taxes and/or monopolies, interferes with the market and tries to prevent this. Voluntary trade between two parties takes place only if both parties see themselves profiting from trade. That's exactly what this is all about. Therefore, it is important that trade can take place without politicians interfering. In this case, it goes beyond the poor entrepreneurs in the poor country of Swaziland, who hope to sell their products at a good price without barriers to trade. Why is this important? Well, because an enterprise, or several, in the country in question can concentrate on producing the goods they are good at producing and having good assumptions to compete with. Then they can use the income to buy what they are less good at producing, or that for natural reasons is not in the country, and that they have to import. In this way, production can be increased even more, and wealth can be achieved by the country. It creates real competition, which means that you have to keep busy producing goods that are good and at a price that consumers are willing to pay. Because I don't think anyone, even those on the socialist side here in the Chamber, will still claim that free trade has not led to poor countries becoming richer. So a little bit about the country we are debating today. Swaziland is a tiny country with a population of just over 1 million. human beings. Long over 70 pst. the population receives its main income from agriculture. Furthermore, 2004 figures show that the agricultural sector contributed to 12 pst. of its gross domestic product, while the corresponding figure for Botswana, which has a free trade agreement with Norway, was only 2 pst. It says a little about how dependent the poor country of Swaziland is on exports of agricultural products. It becomes more tragic when the public here in Norway, via Norad, grants money for aid projects, such as: competence and quality improvement in the slaughterhouse industry in Swaziland, with one hand and thus encouraging Swaziland to build an export-oriented slaughterhouse industry, and contributing to it, while with the other hand they steal money from the same actors by means of high customs walls, which, worse still, lead to no sale to Norway. If there is something the heads of state in the developing world are asking for, then there is access to our markets and that they are not met with high customs walls. I note that the red-green majority in the financial committee in the majority comments admits that they agree. At least I'll interpret it your way. I quote: ‘However, the majority see that there are good reasons why Swaziland is given increased market access and assumes that the Government will return to the Stortinget with this.’ Why, then, is it so difficult to vote in favour of the proposal, if the Socialist parties agree? Or don't you agree? At the same time, I would like to remind you of an exchange of words between me and SV's fiscal spokesman when we discussed the 2008 government and national budget in this room on 27 November 2007. There I pointed out exactly the same thing, that SV is trying to appear to be a party that takes care of the woes of the developing countries, but that one cannot escape the fact that SV does not remove the high customs walls of all the developing countries. I did not feel that I received a satisfactory answer then, and would therefore ask for a concrete answer today, in this debate: why should there be a difference between Botswana and Swaziland? Why do we not want to include even more poor countries, such as the United States? the low-income countries of India and Pakistan, as pointed out by the rapporteur? I remember from the last big-time election campaign that more representatives from the government parties were actually campaigning at least in Pakistan. I wonder if it was to tell you that a voice to SV and the Workers' Party was a voice for maintaining the high customs walls around Norway, to prevent goods from Pakistan and India from being sold in Norway. In conclusion, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e202	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e205	I refer to the good presentation of the case by the case rapporteur and would like to take the opportunity to add some comments to the comments of the minority. First of all, the right strongly believes that free trade and trade work. Free trade brings people out of poverty, it creates jobs, it leads to a general development of wealth, it leads to greater freedom of choice, and it also creates cheaper goods. But it's free trade combined with targeted assistance that works best to get people out of poverty. Norway is at the top of the world in terms of assistance. At the same time, we are hiding behind all the world's regulations in terms of trade, quotas and customs. That was also why in its 2007 alternative budget, the Right wanted to extend the tariff and quota-free regime for low-income countries to almost another 50 countries. There would have been a significant contribution to increasing trade into Norway. This was also followed up by the right in its 2008 alternative budget. There we proposed to include low income countries with more than 75 million. residents. In this case, the right-hand side also makes it clear that we believe lower middle-income countries comparable to Botswana and Namibia in terms of income levels should have conditions that are more similar to those of the countries of the Norwegian GSP scheme. The right considers that a high level of assistance from the rich countries is necessary to achieve the UN’s Millennium Goals. At the same time, the Right proposes to remove customs duties for developing countries exporting goods to Norway in order to give them a better basis for developing their economy. Improving the ability of developing countries to participate in the global economy is a prerequisite for bringing people out of poverty on a sustainable basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e218	First of all, I would just like to say that it was entirely right that this proposal was promoted, because it has led to the debate that we have now, that we can have a debate and have a break in our minds about it. That is quite clear, as do several other representatives, including the Commission. from the Labour Party, has pointed out that the majority have concluded that there are good reasons why Swaziland is given increased market access, and suggests that the Government will return to the Stortinget with this. Now Jørund Rytman from the Progress Party asked the question: Yes, but why don't you vote for this right away? Then he could not have followed what has been said before, namely what Mr. Torgeir Mikalsen said. He was very clear that there are different models to choose from here, and that makes us want to have a round in the government before we bring up a case about this. But I just want to say a few things that I think often disappear in the debate, and as I think it is important to point out. One is that half of all food consumed in Norway is produced abroad. This makes the alarming propaganda that Norway is a country that has no market access for anyone else very, very wrong. The point on our side - that is, on the part of the government parties and especially, if I'm going to talk on behalf of my own party, SV - is to try to facilitate a system that makes it the least developed countries at the bottom, which are the poorest countries, which have the best market access. There is no doubt that comparing the countries at the bottom of that list with the countries at the top of that list makes a big difference. The Financial Committee was just visiting Brazil and Argentina, and I believe that people will agree that there is a considerable difference between the agricultural conditions in Argentina and Brazil and the agricultural conditions in some of the poorest countries. If you do what the Progress Party says, and open up market access for all developing countries, it will clearly be countries like Argentina and Brazil that will grunt all the other developing countries and bring all their agricultural produce. Some of the countries that we are talking about, and which we just want to help out of poverty, will lose. I don't think there can be any doubt about that -- perhaps with a little exception to Argentina, which is currently banned from exporting beef. But apart from that, I think anyone who understands the economy will also understand the benefits of having the type of industrialized agriculture compared to competition internationally. We do not want that in SV. We want to help those countries that have the worst conditions, and that is why we want to reserve duty-free access to those countries. But then there are some exceptions, where we're trying to see a larger whole, on history, development and on the agreements we've had in the past, and where we say that here we're making some exceptions because we think it's important. Just to mention one last thing in relation to the question that is constantly being raised from the right, namely that free trade at any price is the only rewarding thing. I note that not even the Progress Party at this moment in the Chamber is saying that free trade contributes to the benefit of everyone, because that must be the background for the Progress Party to propose customs freedom only for the developing countries and not for all the other countries. Clearly, if countries with agricultural subsidies and large countries like the United States, for example, were to come within a free trade system, they would also be competing with all the poorest countries. There is no doubt that if we look at the developments that have taken place after the WTO rounds we have had, it is not that all countries in the world benefit from free trade. We in Norway have been very good at a good deal of free trade, because we've had an economy, we've had competitive business that's been very well-equipped, well-equipped, to meet competition from elsewhere, while other countries won't be in that situation and will need to build their own business, their own industry, before they meet the other countries in free competition. That is why we have just concluded asymmetric customs agreements with, among other things. the countries we are talking about here in southern Africa. One last point - again in relation to what goes on free trade. Many of the developed countries that have subsequently been able to participate in a free trade competition have just seen that building up their own business has given them an additional opportunity to get out. Opening up full free trade from day one means that you still want the disadvantage for those countries that are not ready to face that situation. That's why we say, priority the poorest countries now, give them market access, and then that's what we do in gradual development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e233	The reality of the case is increased beef quotas to lower customs duties from Swaziland to Norway. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will: ‘increase import quotas for poor countries, including non-MUL countries. The Government will target assistance to enable MUL countries to make use of their trade preferences’. The central batch covers increased beef quotas from Swaziland to Norway. The link between development aid and trade policy can best be exploited by targeting support for production promotion and market access. Norway has contributed financially to Swaziland. Thus, one can build an infrastructure on the production of meat that can also over time benefit farmers, the companies working in the food sector, by then being able to deliver goods to surrounding countries and to other markets - quality products. So what we are facing here is a link between development aid and trade policy. As the representative Heikki Holmås had in mind, there is something Norway should have developed much more, and there are several areas, not least in the areas where we have to import into Norway, for example in the agricultural sector in the case of sugar, spices, coffee and tea. There's an opportunity area here, a potential that's enormous. There are a number of countries screaming for such a link. Norway has the opportunity to do so, and this allows a permanent build-up, which is on its own economic footings. What is the dilemma in this matter is that what we do in relation to one country can have consequences for other countries. We must then respond to the concern of the poorest countries, according to the UN definitions, the so-called MUL countries, about so-called preferential erosion, i.e. the more we give the same preference to richer and larger countries as to MUL countries, the worse the MUL countries are placed in competition. This is also the whole point of the GSP scheme - Generalised System of Preferences, i.e. customs preferences for developing countries’ market access to industrialised countries. It is very central in the United Nations that the United Nations criteria on which a country should be characterised within MUL status, or other status, are being followed up. The MUL countries are also very concerned, so there is a relative advantage for the countries with which the United Nations defines as the most needy and the most important to do something. How are we going to solve the challenges for Swaziland in the case in which we stand here? There are two solutions. One is within a trade agreement between EFTA and SACU countries. The second is a solution within the GSP Agreement. The central party sees it as natural - as the government - that one finds a solution within the scope of the EFTA SACU agreement, i.e. the Southern African Customs Union, but that one then has respect for the regional processes within the SACU area. The European Union has been strongly criticised for splitting the political constellations of Africa through its negotiations on regional trade agreements under the Cotonou Agreement - Economic Partnership Agreements, EPAs. We see it as important for Norway to take care of the regional integration processes in Africa and therefore place great emphasis on finding cooperation solutions that take the time required for cooperation and democracy rather than forcing solutions that can be divisive. We believe that despite our impatience after reaching a solution to the matter, there are good reasons to show both flexibility and firmness in supporting our respect for SACU as a regional unit in southern Africa. If it is possible to find a temporary mechanism with a clear commitment to the inclusion of the scheme under the EFTA-SACU Agreement, we believe that it provides an opportunity to combine flexibility with clean-up. This will best be resolved not only for Swaziland but also taking into account the other poor countries that will be indirectly affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e251	The Aid for Trade scheme was the chapter of the aid budget for the current year that increased most, alongside the environment and climate. It requires that we use assistance to invest in infrastructure in developing countries to provide a basis for exports and trade for the same countries. Assistance can never create development alone. We need a redistribution and a stronger governance of global trade. We need global cooperation to solve common challenges and a trade policy that also benefits the developing world. But in order for the developing countries to participate in the international economy, they must develop agriculture, industry, infrastructure, etc. - infrastructure such as, inter alia: dairies, food surveillance, slaughterhouses, hygiene and distribution, only to mention agricultural related matters. We need to use micro-credit to develop small industries and crafts and formalise the informal sector, as well as developing institutions and competences and establishing favourable and predictable rules and framework conditions for industrial development. So we have to increase the commercial competence of the developing countries. Swaziland is a lukewarm country bordering South Africa. 48 pst. of the country's population lives on less than one dollar per year. day(s) Over 70 pst. has agriculture as the main source of income. And just in Swaziland, Norwegian aid has gone in with Aid for Trade support. The Swedish Federation of Meat and Poultry Industries, supported by NORAD, has contributed to the development of an export-oriented production capacity in Swaziland. Swaziland is now the only country in southern Africa outside the GSP scheme. In the current year's budgetary position of the Foreign Affairs Committee, a unanimous committee states that: ‘It is positive that 14 new countries have been included as zero-customs countries in the GSP scheme, the Generalised System of Preferences. The Committee considers that it can be considered to involve several countries in the scheme and asks the Government to look at the possibility of ensuring equal treatment between small economies in southern Africa». Last June, Stortinget Innst was treated. S. No 209 for 2006-2007, based on a Document No. Eight proposals from the Christian People's Party. A unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee underlined that the GSP system should be developed to cover several countries that are not defined as MUL countries and that through Aid for Trade we contribute to ensuring infrastructure and production. I would like to join in what the Central Party's Alf Ivar Samuelsen said in that debate, that there is little conflict between the least developed countries and the other weaker developing countries in terms of production, export interests and opportunities and Norwegian import protection needs. I would also like to point out - as others have done before - that the Soria Moria Declaration confirms that the Government will increase the ‘import quotas for poor countries, including non-MUL countries’. In the consultation round of Document No: The 8th proposal from the Christian People's Party last year also said that the League of Nations was positive for increased imports from non-MUL countries, which are thus at the intersection of MUL countries, and also the use of GSP in this context. I think it is important that Swaziland be included in the GSP scheme as soon as possible in line with Botswana and Namibia. So you can look at how this will develop in the SACU context and in regional cooperation in southern Africa. It is important that Swaziland now enters in the same way as the 14 other countries that were last included in the GSP scheme. Swaziland must have the same market access as the other two countries. I believe that we are totally failing in our development policy if we do not include Swaziland in the GSP scheme. I assume that the government will come back to Stortinget with suggestions on this in an appropriate manner as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e285	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work on this matter, and for his commitment to the poor in the world. That's exactly what this matter is about. It is about giving a handshake to the poorest of the poor. That is why, as a co-rapporteur for this proposal for a representative, I am quite embarrassed when I hear the debate that has taken place in Stortinget - in the richest country in the world, with the world's most privileged peasants - here today. There has been a debate with excuses. We have heard representatives from all the government parties, even Per Olaf Lundtigen, who have been up and argued positively to include Swaziland in a zero-tar regime. But then all the explanations come out. The way this is going to be done is the twist to get to. This could have been explained easily by the government parties in their work on the suspension of this case. Therefore, I would argue that there must be something else behind it. There must be someone who has knocked on the door of the government parties, at least to one government party, and said, "Listen, we can't find this." The representative of Torgeir Mikalsen, who is the rapporteur on this matter, fully agreed with the proposal. I think that's very positive. He pointed to some solutions by which this case could be resolved. I think it should be possible to make it a requirement for a rapporteur that he could have come up with a concrete solution in the matter. During the examination of this matter, there have been some speculations in the press about this matter. The representative, Sigrun Eng, from the Workers' Party, has been travelling in Swaziland and has seen the production of meat and the state of the country with his own eyes, and has said very positively that Swaziland should be included in a zero-duty scheme. I think it is sad that Sigrun Eng has not had an impact on his vision in the Workers' Party so far. I hope that those who have been positive in the Workers' Party will help to ensure that there is still a significant pressure in this case, so that the Government will come back. That was also what the representative Heikki Holmås from SV said. He said the government will come back with a solution for Swaziland. Then I think, when we first have the State Council Halvorsen present here in the hall, that she should express when the Storting can expect the Government to come back to the Storing with a case that resolves this bunch. This should be a very simple matter to solve. We're also in a situation where we don't manage to produce enough beef on our own keel here at home, and that's a situation that will continue. So I think the Stortinget should be able to get a clear response from the government parties and the Government on when we can expect a solution in this matter. When does the Government come back to Stortinget with a case that solves this crowd?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e304	I would like to begin by telling the representative of Asmyhr that the spokesman for the case is called Syversen. So to my post: on 15 November last year, we had a debate in this room on development policy issues. The main impression was the time of exposure to Swaziland, and that Norway had to provide export opportunities for beef in line with the other countries in the SACU. It's been a while. Governments both here and there have taken care of the unresolved problems, and we are approaching a solution. One of the poorest countries in Africa will be able to export beef - to which others have been involved - with which we are not self-sufficient. Swaziland is 146th place in the Human Welfare Index. In comparison, MUL countries like Lesotho come in 149th place, Botswana in 131th place, and Namibia in 125th place. Thus, Swaziland is worse off than most others, but is not on the list of countries from which we have MUL imports. Swaziland is the second poorest country in the 2003 statistics in the SACU free trade area, on which these parameters are built. All arrows point in the wrong direction, and it doesn't get better. There's a lot of reasons for that. Dry, power-feed prices and other things make people live in lean anguish rather than sell. But the biggest challenge facing this country, which many people have faced, is the HIV/AIDS problem, which has exploded. The Minister of Health informed that 42 p.m. of the population of 1 million was infected. Based on unofficial numbers, 67 pst was. the infection, and one agreed that the top was not reached. Lifetime was 20 years ago 60 years ago. Today he's 31 years old. Where there were grandmothers, they were responsible for the grandchildren. Parents were either dying or gone. 100,000 children, about 10 pst., are orphans, and they had to prioritize other things rather than going to school. It's a small country, which relates to the area and population, but it has challenges that we can barely understand. But they did not primarily ask for regular assistance. They asked to trade with Norway with their agricultural product. They wanted to manage themselves, and mainly trade beef, which we have to import today to meet the demand we have. The nice thing was that there was no multinational company inside the image that was to ‘shum the flute’. The income goes to the many small producers, and gives badly needed money to grandmothers, for example. Wants to buy school space for their grandchildren and give them the possibility of a better life, if they grow up. Norway has given money to a slaughterhouse that meets our strict requirements, but so far has everything stopped there. Now we're almost at the finish line to be able to offer them Aid for Trade. When representatives from the Progress Party, who are proposers, refer to Ellen Stensrud's commitment, I can tell you that Halle Jørn Hanssen in Norwegian Folkehelp, and for that matter also Desmond Tutu, has engaged and sent letters about the same. As you can see, this proposal was almost unnecessary. But anyway, I'm glad you're holding up. For having been there and having seen for themselves how their lives were, and what possibilities they might have, I am among the impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e323	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e326	The representative Heikki Holmås said from this pulpit that half of the food we eat in Norway is imported. Yeah, what does this really say? Well, it says that non-resident agricultural producers produce cheaper than Norwegian subsidised agriculture, despite high customs barriers. That's part of it. Then the representative Holmås further says that removing customs would make it easier for countries like Brazil, Argentina and others to import. Yeah, that's right, that's right. That's how the market economy works. In the long term, it will also help the less developed countries, those less developed than Brazil and Argentina. That's what the representative Heikki Holmås has hopefully read on BI, what is called the trickle down effect of the economy -- that it will spread gradually. It's to hope that the government also takes on the fact that it doesn't use to go on the weakest all the time to think that they're going to compete out the others. It's a market economy. It has a dynamics, and that's how it works. Then, of course, there's much greater sympathy in this room for assistance, because there's a kind of indulgence one can pay because you're not willing to allow other markets to access Norway. And of course, those who give the most to help are those who seem to be the most merciful, and the others are the ones who don't want to help. But it is the market that can help them in the long term. That's what they're asking for. They want to compete at the same line. To the representative Nybakk, who says that this is not where we have to come in: we have to put the emphasis on what she called ‘trade competence’. Well, that's where we're going to put the bump. So we need to increase the trade competence of these countries for what they lack, but that is not what they are asking for. They are asking for market access, and then trade competence will come gradually. It's a discouraging attitude to say to other countries that first we need to give some knowledge about how you're going to do business, and then maybe you're going to have access to our market. So that is not how it should work, and that is not how we should debate in the Grand Duchy. We should give all countries access in the long term to our market. In fact, I think those who are standing here debating that they want to do something, but have so hard to do, should admit that what is the main reason why they don't want to do so, is that they want to protect Norwegian agriculture. Everyone knows that. All the journalists know that, and all the newspapers write it all the time. Everyone in this room knows that, and then you should stand up and say that the main reason why we don't want market access for everyone, on the same line, is to protect Norwegian agriculture - the subsidised agriculture we have today. Not least, the government representative, Lundteg, should agree to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e339	It is quite incomprehensible to me that a small and very poor country such as Swaziland will meet insurmountable rates of customs duties from Norway. The representative Eng had traveled and looked at the industry in Swaziland. I traveled through Swaziland as a «backpack» in 2005. I didn't see much about the meat industry, but I saw a lot about how people's living conditions are in Swaziland. I have to say it was an experience to travel from South Africa into Swaziland and so on to Mozambique and Malawi. Poverty and distress in Swaziland are enormously much greater than that seen in Malawi and Mozambique. Traveling from South Africa and entering Swaziland was like coming to a completely different world. The social and economic situation in Swaziland is very worrying. Swaziland is one of the poorest countries in the world, a country with no coastal resources, a country with 70pst. the population lives below the poverty line. You operate with multiple numbers in terms of the HIV/AIDS rate, but you can be sure that over 50 pst. the population is actually infected with HIV. The fact that Swaziland does not qualify as a MUL country is also incomprehensible. There is also a debate going on in the United Nations. We know that the country is poorer than many of the defined MUL countries. I guess there's little we can do here and now with just that. But what we can do is take over Swaziland's situation. We can use our political space for action. We can lower the sky-high customs rates we've set against the country, a country where 80 pst. in fact, the population is employed in agricultural and cattle production. The vast majority of African countries today have no real means of making money on exports of agricultural products such as meat. It's about a lot of things. But then we also have some countries that have the opportunities, which can make money on such exports as Botswana and Namibia, which have been mentioned earlier today, which are already in the strictly regulated meat market here in the country. Then we have Swaziland, which also has the opportunities, which has a large kook production, and where Norwegian meat industry and NORAD have contributed through investment and advice to the fact that the country is now at the same level as Botswana and Namibia in relation to the level of industry. That's why it's right that we get Swaziland into the GSP scheme as soon as possible. Swaziland does not represent a threat to Norwegian meat production. If we mean anything with the support that Norad and the meat industry have just given to Swaziland to qualify as a meat exporter on the international market, we will incorporate the country into the GSP system and give it zero duty as soon as possible. Something else I think would be politically petty, all the time we know Swaziland needs this. Swaziland is ready to do so, and we all agree that economic development and trade are key instruments for poverty reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e352	At first, I would like to thank the representative, Asmyhr, for complimenting the rapporteur on fighting for the poor in the world. It falsified a little bit for me, because in Asmyhr's head it was Torgeir Micaelsen who was the case-rapporteur -- not me. But I'm very happy that Torgeir Micasen is also fighting for the poor in the world. That's it. So until that matter comes up: I think it is interesting that there are four speakers from the Workers' Party who have made contributions to which I can fully agree, and who in total would mean that the Stortinget will be presented as soon as possible with a proposal for a solution to Swaziland's ability to export its products to Norway. We just have to record that the Council of State has not taken the floor. Torgeir Micaelsen said that they were impatient in this room after finding a solution. The representative Holmås said you had to go for a round in the government. So the questions are, how long is this round going to be? What solution will you land on? Unfortunately, this debate has not clarified this. But I assume - if no one disagrees with me - that with the involvement of the figures of the government parties, we have to expect a solution to be presented in the 2009 budget. If that doesn't happen, I think I can promise on behalf of the opposition that then we will again make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e363	I'm sorry for the confusion in my head today. Of course, Rosen was meant for the representative Syversen, and the rice was meant for the representative Micaelsen, just to clarify it. I think that much of this debate has been positive, although I still want to claim that the government parties could have settled this matter in the context of the vote on this proposal for a representative. It's just to expect the government party representatives who have been up here and spoken positively to integrate Swaziland into this system, to put a considerable pressure on the government, so that we can get a quick solution. If it can be concluded that there is a case either in relation to the revised budget or in relation to the budget for the autumn, we can get a solution in place from 1 January 2009, which has been the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e370	Just a few words about the time period you can imagine to be able to follow up what I now see as the whole Stortinget agrees that Swaziland has come into disrepute, and that many relationships indicate that the country should have better trading arrangements with Norway: There's a broad commitment here, which I'll of course follow up on. It's too early to be able to sort this out in connection with the revised national budget now in ours -- I just have to say that right away, if there's such expectations in the room -- but we're working towards seeing if it's possible by 2009. I promise at least that we will focus strongly on the commitment that is now in the Storting, and that is the background for the matter being raised, and that there is a great deal of agreement on this. Other speakers, including: The rapporteur has pointed out here that there is a question of which route to choose, and what evaluations to make in this regard. Here the government needs to make some assessments and then come back to Stortinget with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e379	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3024]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e395	I don't think it's necessary to use the entire speaking time on this case. I just want to stress that there is a co-consultant committee behind the setting, and that the tax agreement between the Isle of Man and Norway will establish the legal basis for an effective exchange of information between Norway and the Isle of Man. I note that the Minister of Finance also has other ways of obtaining information, including: from Liechtenstein. I'm not going to comment on anything else, just stress that entering into a tax agreement is a good starting point for a good exchange of information between different countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e402	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3024]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e418	As the case-rapporteur for this case on a lower annual fee and support system for retrofitting particulate filters on diesel vehicles, I will present the Committee's decision and take up the minority's proposal. The Financial Committee is concerned that the environmental perspective is taken into account in the definition of fiscal policy. It is important that Norwegian suppliers and consumers receive appropriate incentives to choose environmentally friendly production and consumption in today’s market. In order to reduce local emissions from the existing car fleet and create a better local environment, it is absolutely necessary to consider different measures. The Committee agrees that, with regard to both improved quality of life and lower health problems, different incentives should be considered to motivate people to make environmentally friendly choices. In this context, the retrofitting of particulate filters has been proposed as an important environmental measure. The proposal from the Christian People's Party to introduce an aid scheme for the retrofitting of particulate filters on diesel vehicles aims to stimulate environmentally friendly behaviour. The matter will be annexed to the minutes, but I will explain the minority's proposals and comments on the matter. I expect the representatives of the government parties to explain their comments. In spite of the fact that the Financial Committee was not consulted on this important matter, the necessary information was nevertheless provided, and fortunately, during the examination. This information was also important for the minority’s handling of the case. The data mainly indicate that there is uncertainty about the extent of emissions from diesel cars with particulate filters installed. According to the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations, the most harmful part of the NOx emission - the NO2-gas - will be larger with particulate filters than without. They rely on an analysis and a report from the UK Ministry of the Environment that clearly signals that particulate filters can increase NO2 emissions from diesel cars. This information shows that there is clearly a need for further evidence before further consideration is given to the matter and considers concrete proposals relating to the behaviour of environmentally friendly drivers. The measures the Storting decides to implement contribute to and stimulate safer and more environmentally friendly cars. At present, the environmental emissions from automotive fuels that have the highest environmental and health damage in total are not clear. Therefore, it was also very surprising that government parties chose to say no to the proposal to have an investigation of the consequences of various measures. Recent government parties have helped to create considerable uncertainty for drivers about how to act as environmentally friendly as possible. It is now apparent that the Government's actions, including the The conversion of charging policies can be environmentally harmful. It is therefore very unfortunate that the government parties in this case have contributed to creating further confusion for Norwegian drivers. In order to avoid contributing to a system that creates confusion and makes it difficult for drivers to make environmentally friendly choices, all available facts need to be reviewed. For the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, it is therefore important to get all the facts available on the table, so that we can evaluate all the aspects of the measures, and that we have a proper basis for finally concluding. The evening post had an article about the confusion that has been created by the Government on this matter. What we witnessed during that day also indicates that the government has not taken seriously. Firstly, early in the day, a press release from the Ministry of Finance said that the Government nevertheless supported the opposition’s proposal - they still wanted to have a review to get all the facts on the table and an analysis of various measures. So then the government parties in Stortinget voted down a proposal for an analysis four to five days in advance. This may have been why the Ministry of Finance sent out a new press release in the afternoon, but it did not want to have a review and an analysis and a report, as the authorities in many, many other countries are now doing, precisely because there is so much uncertainty about this. This testifies to chaos, which helps the drivers who are initially motivated to act environmentally friendly lose their courage. In my opinion, the government parties would have made it much easier for themselves if they had voted in favour of this proposal and we had received a review of the 2009 state budget. Of course, I accept that the government parties may not always agree with my proposals, but I had really hoped that we would have met with another response from the government parties in this matter. With this, I want to address the proposal of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e453	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e456	It is very gratifying to note that the focus around the charging of cars in Norway has changed a lot in recent years. My former colleague Erik Dalheim, from Drammen, where I come from, was in earlier times the foremost face - at least for most people - when car charges were to be discussed, and I must unfortunately say that often people's image of Erik Dalheim was linked to the fact that it was the state's need for revenues that was the big point of charging cars. But in recent years, this has turned around. It is now much greater than before -- at least I feel it -- a much greater focus on the environment and a much greater degree of understanding of the conversion that the red-green government started immediately after the government change. Because we added the so-called CO2 component where we reward fuel-rich cars, i.e. CO2-requiring, lower-charged cars and add more taxes to the cars that emit too much CO2, the conversion of the one-off fee, the purchase fee, immediately led to emissions from new cars per car. the kilometres travelled have fallen dramatically compared to the previous ones. In addition, we announced -- we wanted to do it at the same time; it didn't work, but we've done it now -- a conversion of the entire annual fee, so that when the case rapporteur, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, tries to make a big deal out of this and says it's totally chaotic considering what kind of car you're going to buy in Norway to be environmentally friendly, it's with respect to not reporting properly. I think that's pretty straightforward: you can buy a car that emits little CO2 and at the same time has low local emissions in terms of particles. Then you drive a most environmentally friendly car. So it's obvious that some of the interests associated with climate on the one hand and local emissions on the other sometimes go into each other; they hit each other a little bit. Diesel cars without particulate filter are an example of this. In general, diesel cars have more fuel-rich engines. They emit less CO2. On the other hand, they emit more particles - local pollution. Then we believe that we have evidence to say that a factory-mounted particulate filter reduces local contamination. So it's quite right what Linda C. Hofstad Helleland says -- but there's nothing new that that criticism has come up -- that there are some people who think that such a filter is not necessarily the salutary one. Norway's Asthma and Allergy Associations were very clear on this as well half a year and two years ago, when the whole car charge conversion came. Then the criticism has come up again in the light of the British Ministry of the Environment's report. And even though the government parties in Stortinget after a Document No. Eight proposals choose not to impose a majority decision on individual investigations to come here and there, of course, it is not to understand that we should not have a full review of this research material, like any other research based on how we can get the most environmentally friendly car park. Of course, we are going to review the fees, but when the case rapporteur tries to make a point that there were chaotic conditions in a day when we were in the finance committee in Brazil and Argentina, I suppose I have to say that there were some forces in the opposition who tried to contribute as much as they could to the fact that it was going to appear to be chaotic. The only thing that was said was that of course you always have a review to see what is the most environmentally friendly charging policy in Norway on the car side. However, it goes with respect not to report that three-four months after we started one of the biggest car bill conversions in Norway, namely the differentiation of the annual fee, we should almost only turn to tile because a new research report has arrived. That's not how we can work seriously. However, I would say that when it comes to retrofitting the particulate filter, there may be an interesting proposal, but there are several aspects that need to be considered. At the same time, of course, we should look closely at both the British Ministry of the Environment report and, possibly, other elements around it, but there are no plans today to make changes to the annual tax. However, I would urge the opposition to turn the proposal on this investigation into a transmission proposal, so that we do not later seem to disagree more than we really are. I think all the parties here in Stortinget are concerned about getting on the table all kinds of facts, so that we can make ourselves, as legislators, individuals and consumers in Norway, as well as equipped to buy a car that is as environmentally friendly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e491	As the rapporteur, Mr Hofstad Helleland, has already pointed out, there is here an overall non-socialist side behind the Christian People's Party's proposal for a lower annual fee and support system for retrofitting particulate filters on diesel vehicles. It seems like -- based on the way you put it -- the red-green ones also in this case, as during the Swaziland debate we had a little while ago, really agree with us, as Torgeir Mikalsen also pointed out. If you don't wear out at least a lot of counter-arguments. So why not just say it outright - and actually support the proposal? There may, however, be some counter-representation, as described in the form of a note; among other things. it may lead to more bureaucracy. But I want to remind you about and actually read out what the proposal says: ‘The Government requests a return to the 2009 state budget at the latest with an investigation of emissions from petrol and diesel vehicles and the effects of retrofitting particulate filters in diesel cars, related to the reduction of local pollution emissions and any harmful health effects from increased NO2.’ Then I think it is nice that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre cannot support the proposal that this should be investigated at the moment - but it should perhaps just be lacking, with the wing-petrol tax policy that the red-green government is running. You had the car tax system you had. At one moment diesel vehicles shall be environmentally friendly; at the other it shall be environmentally hostile. It is not surprising that many car owners in Norway feel cheated by the Government. However, diesel cars do not exclude large local pollution, especially in large cities, including the city where Torgeir Micaelsen and I live, where particulate matter causes health problems. In fact, studies show that at least half of Europe’s car fleet is equipped with diesel engines. So something should be done, so that diesels - at least in Norway - are stimulated to retrofit particulate filters, if they don't have it today. A study by the Norwegian Automobile Association, NAF, shows that seven out of ten Nordics believe that people retrofitting particulate filters on their diesel cars should be covered by part of the costs. In the same study, half of the diesel cars that do not have particulate filters on their cars responded that they would retrofit filters if they received a lower annual fee and refunded parts of the bill. That's approximately equal to that. 50,000 cars just in Oslo and Akershus. For this reason, I hope the proposal will be supported here in Stortinget, and that the government will come back with an investigation into this in connection with the 2009 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e512	It is the Christian People’s Party that has promoted this proposal. As was also the case-rapporteur, Hofstad Helleland, there was no consultation on the part of the Committee. It could probably have been an advantage in this case. But there was a consultation on the side of the committee that again provided this information from the United Kingdom on the impact of particulate filters on diesel-powered cars. We get an emphasis on ‘can’, because we do not know for sure what the overall effect on health will be in such an installation. From the Christian People's Party side, our point is that the effect will apply regardless of whether it is a factory-mounted filter or a retrofit filter. In this way, they should be treated equally. We are all concerned that we provide good incentives for those who drive a car and who see need to drive a car. That is in the light of this proposal to be considered. I'm recording that the majority is pointing at some plus and minuses. I think that with more thought, provided that the overall effect is positive, the positive sides are giving a majority grant scheme. It also shows the fact that such regulations have been implemented in other countries. I do not use this opportunity to have a major debate on car charges and chaos or not chaos. I'm sure we can get closer to that. In any case, I think it is positive that the majority can be as large as possible when it comes to supporting proposals that can help us choose as environmentally friendly a car park as possible. The representative of Torgeir Micasen asked the minority to consider it so that the proposal could be submitted to the Government. There is a minority set on, provided that the Government actually makes a serious assessment of this and comes back. I expect this to happen in the context of the 2009 budget. On that condition, we are prepared to re-table the proposal for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e523	This case clearly shows that the world is not always as simple as you think. I think perhaps the proposer, Hans Olav Syversen, also felt it after the proposal to retrofit particulate filters – because it was said to be a good environmental measure – had been submitted. Since then, there have been several reports, including: SFT report, which said that a type of retrofit particulate filter can be environmentally friendly and cost 750 million. kr, and that there are retrofitted particulate filters on buses that might also be environmentally friendly and create a better local environment - but when we were at a seminar, we were presented for another type of particulate filter. So on the one hand, it's said that this is huge, but then there's a report that says no, this is very stupid because it's not socially effective, it has a limited life span, or it doesn't work so well. In other words, it was to use Germany and the Netherlands as good examples of what we should do in Norway, all of a sudden a bad thing because the SFT said that doing as in Germany and the Netherlands is quite stupid. It just shows that the world isn't always as simple as what we would like it to be. It is certain that our government has implemented a policy to ensure that CO2 emissions fall. The positive thing is that the CO2 emissions from cars on average have gone down evenly. I mean they went down from 178 to 159 grams per. km travelled from 2006 to 2007. That's also where they're still lying today. It's an argument that the government has used to say that we'll do more of this, we'll make several conversions of that kind of charge to bring down the CO2 emissions. That's not exactly what the Progress Party says, that we're running a wing-petter policy. It is possible that Jørund Rytman did not read the big papers when they were presented, but we wrote quite clearly and said from Stortinget's pulpit from the first day that now it comes first to a conversion to more efficient cars. That's not what Rytman says, a conversion to diesel cars, it was a conversion to make sure that everyone bought more efficient cars instead. So it turns out that diesel cars are a little bit more efficient on the margins than petrol cars. As a result, diesel cars took over a larger share of the market, up from 50 pst. in 2006 to 76 pst. in 2007. It's a turn that's happened in Norway. At the same time, we also said that we would convert the annual tax so that the diesel cars became more expensive, but that was not the case. It was not the Progress Party that ran around and said this is what the government is going to do, so do not buy new diesel cars. I said it loudly and clearly to car dealers and everyone else, but it was not always they promoted it when they were going to sell their new diesel cars. But we have to look at how local emissions can also go down. There I notice that Jørund Rytman from the Progress Party asks why we can't just do as they suggest and implement this. But here, in fact, I think it is the Progress Party that is pursuing a wing-petter policy. The Ministry of Finance clearly states that implementing the scheme as proposed is not necessarily a trick, and secondly it is a huge bureaucratic system. The progress party cannot say one day that they are very opposed to bureaucracy and will build it down, and the next day promote a bunch of proposals that create an enormously larger bureaucracy. Then we have to see if this is really a sneaky arrangement, or if we can do this another way. I believe that there are many good reasons not only to examine this proposal further, but to clarify it in an overall sense. How can we (a) make sure to bring down the CO2 emissions further, and (b) do something about the local emissions to a greater extent than what we've done now? We're going to take a look at this. I think that we can all be humble compared to the fact that it's obviously not a simple answer to that, but instead we're working along the lines ahead. I am very pleased that this is now being promoted as a transmission proposal by Hans Olav Syversen, because I believe that we need to look at this in full towards the budget in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e552	Matters related to dust, particulate matter and noise we meet in the Financial Committee every year from a number of important organisations that point out the health consequences and the welfare problems it creates. These are the most common problems where population concentration is greatest, i.e., a major urban problem. However, it is important to focus on it and to have a set of instruments to try to correct it. It is quite obvious that the consequences of environmental pollution are much greater in the long term than what we have an overview of today. When we know how small quantities of pollution are going to be in air, water or soil to influence biological processes, we have to have the greatest respect and the greatest focus on reducing emissions. The centre part is pragmatic in terms of the means we're going to use. It's a set of instruments, but we're constantly focusing on efficiency and individual administrative relationships. This proposal is designed to combine a lower annual fee with an aid scheme for the retrofitting of particulate filters. What is then the centre party's point of reference is the results, and not least the administrative problems, of the proposal in relation to that one has an alternative, namely factory-mounted filters by new purchases. In our view, there should be better arguments for introducing a new bureaucracy. As others have pointed out, we are surprised that the entire right-hand side of Norwegian policy is in favour of the proposal. It is clear that some proposals, whether or not they involve very extensive information and form fields, are curative. We on the government side are far more sceptical about it. I'm glad that the publisher is being turned into a transmission proposal, and that it's focusing on the theme. It's important that you do something about it. But we have come to the conclusion that this means too much administrative costs in relation to what is the alternative, and we are somewhat surprised that the Progress Party, not least, has joined the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e561	I just have a few brief comments on this debate. I am pleased that this proposal has become a transmission proposal, because we have been working intensively – since the government change – to get a charging system for car traffic that allows us to put together as environmentally friendly a car park as possible. There have not been such major changes in car charges, nor changes in the composition of the car park and new car purchase – so that the changes we have made are working. It is a little strange to hear the contributions of the Progress Party in this debate, because they were strongly opposed to the profile chosen by the fact that fuel-rich cars would be cheaper compared to others. But it's fine if they come after. So some reflections around the discussion about the car. Although there is one day a look at the front page of the Evening Post that gives the impression that everything that has happened with the car tax and one-off conversions has now been thrown into the air and has not fallen again, at least the members of the Financial Committee must read what is there. Because there was no factual background for making that kind of war headlines out of it. But of course, as several speakers have pointed out, the new information that we have not known before comes into our mind, we are getting into it as quickly as we can, in order to get the most up-to-date charging system for cars. The Committee is well aware - perhaps everyone else should be aware of this too - that, in terms of everything that concerns cars, there are many very strong lobbyists, many very special stakeholders who can put their desire for their environmental solution above all other environmental solutions, which are really out to sell cars, and which are not at first out to put together a most environmentally friendly car park. It's also a good idea to bring it in the back of your head when you discuss this. We're going to keep working on this. We have some practical issues. We have too poor systems to create as fine a charging system as we would have liked, because the Autosys system has some weaknesses. It's working to fix it. In terms of local emissions, we have a challenge. I also think you might want to think about whether to make a little different arrangements for central and pig-grown strikes on these kinds of issues, because it is mainly in densely built areas that local emissions are a major challenge. There is a problem that I cannot alert any solution to now, but as it is possible to think further. Otherwise, I have to say that what we have done that has worked, in terms of the conversion of the car charges, and that we will continue to work with, is to say that it is the most fuel-efficient cars that will benefit from the charging system. The fact that some dealers and others in the debate have turned to the fact that driving diesel is now going to pay off is a completely different matter. It is worth driving the most fuel-efficient cars, and it turned out that the diesel cars came out a little better on the margin than the petrol cars did. But that's the whole thing that's going to be on the ground. I would like to take this proposal, which is now being turned into a transmission proposal, and look forward to constructive cooperation with the Committee on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e578	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e581	First, I would like to clarify very briefly that State Secretary Axelsen several times during the day this became known, stated that this information that has been provided in the reports was something completely new for the Ministry of Finance. I had to confirm that this was known for Stortinget and had been so for two months. What is needed for the opposition to be involved in a transmission proposal is a clarification from the Council of State, so that we can be sure that it is the consequences that are being investigated and presented in the context of the 2009 state budget - not that it is the proposal to be examined. There must be consequences and an analysis of the effects of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e589	It is our intention to follow up on what is the intention of the proposal, and to include it in our report on how the fee conversion has worked so far, what is the consequence of introducing changes, and in our recommendation to the Storting on what we think is sensible to do for 2009. We have ambitions to go further and make the charging system as environmentally friendly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e594	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over. [[See page 3024]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e612	This matter is briefly about the fact that there is a desire from several opposition parties to reintroduce the zero-taxor in Norway. There's something we in government parties can't be on at all. This time, the proposal to reduce the taxes on wealth in the form of a proposal to introduce exemptions on so-called working capital. The government parties see it this way: if you compare with many other European countries - where real estate taxes do not exist, these countries are characterised by a large amount of property tax instead - you will see that the sum of property taxes and taxes in Norway is not particularly worrying. On the contrary, it is below the average in Europe. But I think it's more important to focus on how the wealth tax actually works distributively, because what we've done from the red-green government is to make the wealth tax an even better and more accurate distribution tool. We have taken care to remove some of the particularly shy tax regimes put in place for the wealthiest here in Norway on the right-hand side during the last period, schemes that were just about to give large discounts on the wealth tax to people who owned shares and those types of instruments. We thought that was wrong, so we have removed the discounts that were there, and spent the money to make sure to get a sharper distribution profile, increase the tax for the 100 richest on the Capital's list of the richest in this country -- and more than that -- and make sure to give tax relief to the people who have the smallest wealth. Half of those who have escaped taxes on wealth are pensioners and people with lower incomes, usually paid homes. So these are now no longer paying taxes on wealth, while the people who have the best advice pay more. That's a good way to do it. If we look at the opposition's proposal, which is about removing the tax on working capital, it's estimated to cost the community about 5 billion dollars, of which 3.1 billion will belong to people with more than 1 million. gross income kr. So it's not possible to say anything other than that this is a catastrophic distributive property. If you were concerned about the distribution profile here, you would make sure to give this tax credit to other people. I would like to hear here now if there are some of the parties that think that if you first give $5 billion in tax bills, you're going to give most of the people who actually own the most wealth in Norway today. I would like to hear the argument for that, because I notice that this is not how you argue in the various state budgets either. Then you don't spend 5 billion kroner of the community's money that way. Then you don't use your taxes - although they are a bit modest from the right side of the opposition now, much more modest than they were when they were in position - to lower the property tax by as much money as that. What is also incomprehensible to me is that this property tax has no distortive effect at all in terms of investment. It is often made as if you have. It's not. For people living in Norway, it does not matter whether they invest in foreign or Norwegian shares. The shares will be valued in the same way, and property taxes will be paid by them. Similarly, if a person lives in Sweden and is to make investments, he/she will not pay taxes on wealth to the Swedish State. This is why it does not matter whether they invest in Sweden or Norway. It is possible that the right side believes that this will lead to a huge flow of the richest people in this country from Norway to Sweden, but with the exception of a few desperate screams from some of those who have the most money in this country, there is therefore quite a lot of silence around this. That's because the wealth tax, which is probably the largest part of the tax paid by some of the richest people in this country, is a modest tax compared to the total value they're sitting on. I'm assuming that the opposition will put forward its view in a very straightforward way, so I just want to say that this is a proposal that we cannot support. When you look at the summation of some of the parties, they also say very clearly that this is really just a first step to try to abolish the entire wealth tax. But I think it's special that instead of doing what we do when we limit the taxes on wealth for some people, that's to make sure that the deductions increase, the opposition will therefore give the greatest tax relief to those who are the richest. But it's probably saying everything about the right-hand side here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e632	The case-speaker Holmås has given a good basis for the position taken by the Government Party in the Financial Committee of the proposal that we are now debating. The Christian People's Party representatives Syversen, Woie Duesund and Sørfonn have therefore put forward proposals to abolish the property tax on working capital. This proposal, of course, has failed in the Financial Committee and is also making it later in the Grand Duchy today. What's worth noting is that the three other opposition parties, that's the Progress Party, right and left, do not join the Christian People's Party's proposal, but present another proposal, where they ask the Government to facilitate a gradual liquidation of the property tax. I therefore note that there is a lack of civilisation and that there is a lack of consistency in this matter between the three previous government parties. I would like to point out some of the important fundamental points that both the Labour Party and the other two government parties have to reject the proposal from the representatives of the Christian People's Party. So the proposal put forward here by the Christian People's Party will lead to significant problems of demarcation. It would be very difficult to clarify a definition of what one considers to be working capital and other capital. The problems of bypassing decisions are likely to be major, for example: by defining belongings used privately, such as houses, cabins, boats and cars, as working capital in the enterprise. It is also a fact that the property tax as it is now designed is an important source of income for the Norwegian state. About 11 billion kr dictates that income will be the current tax year. The system that is now being practised has good distribution properties. We have, as the case-speaker also pointed out, improved it during the growing period we are in. I would also like to show that, through the changes that have been made, we have increased the bottom subtraction and extended the base by, among other things. to remove the stock discount. As the case spokesman pointed out, if the proposal of the Christian People's Party representatives were accepted, the state would lose an estimated NOK 5 billion. A large part of this amount will go to people with very high incomes: 3 billion dollars will go to people with more than 1 million. kr in gross income, and persons with more than 3 million. kr in gross income is expected to receive a tax return of approx. 200,000 kroner left. So in our opinion, the proposal has a very poor distribution effect. That in itself is a heavy argument to go against it. It is also such that some claim that property taxes are a threat to our business. What I mean is, I'm shooting way over the goal. The tax on wealth initially has nothing to say on wages by investing in Norway compared to investing in other countries. Assets arising from the return on investment abroad shall be taxed in line with investment here in the country. I think it's important to hold on. However, the property tax may be relevant to the access to capital of investors dependent on Norwegian capital, i.e.: is missing in the capital market. However, it is difficult to see that investors who may move from Norway because of the wealth tax have incentives to withdraw from or avoid investing in profitable projects here in the country - even if they would move to our neighbouring country in the east. It is a fact that few OECD countries have taxes on wealth, but what distinguishes countries that do not have taxes on wealth is that they instead have relatively high taxes on property. If we see property taxes and property taxes in context, our country is clearly below the OECD average. I stress this in order to create a little soberness in the debate on bringing together the tax levels of business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e653	As the last speaker also pointed out, few countries have taxes on wealth. Of the 30 OECD countries, only four have taxes on wealth, and no country has taxes on wealth that are as low as in Norway. What's the problem, and the case spokesman wasn't in it, is that some of the richest people in Norway don't pay taxes because they've moved out of the country. So Norway's richest man, John Fredriksen, doesn't pay taxes because he moved out of the country too many years ago. There are also several of the richest who have done so, and one has reason to fear that more people will move out in the years to come. The fact that we have a wealth tax as one of a few countries is a competitive disadvantage for founders and industrial builders who want to live in Norway. If an e.g. have two competing companies, one company which is eighted by a Norwegianman, and one company which is eighted by a Swedish company, the company which is eighted by the Norwegian company must pay dividends in order to enable the Norwegian to make capital to pay its property tax, while the company which is eighted by a Swedish company does not have to empty the company for dividends. This means that an enterprise that is eighted by a Swedish company or another non-taxed company will have a much stronger capital base and will have far stronger and safer jobs than the one that is eighted by a Nordic company. Of course, this is unfortunate, and therefore the Progress Party is going into complete liquidation of the property tax. We are, to a large extent, in agreement with Mr Sandal's considerations that there are some demarcation issues in this proposal, because one can get a definition of what is working capital and what is private capital. That is why we want primarily to remove the wealth tax, and we also have proposals for it to take place gradually. But we still want to support the subsidiary proposal of the Christian People's Party that one should exempt working capital. Otherwise, the problem is already well known. I think it's an ever-increasing disadvantage for Norway if we're going to create a strange wealth tax. When it comes to property taxes, it's a point that there are many countries that have higher taxes on property than one has in Norway. But then moving to Sweden doesn't help. In any case, a property tax must be paid on the property that is owned in Norway or in other countries, while the property tax may be removed by moving. There's also a new situation. When Sweden no abolishes the property tax, it will be relatively easy to move to Sweden and operate business in Norway still, thus avoiding the property tax. Finally, I will resubmit the proposal from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left from the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e666	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e669	Let me start by saying that I think it is a performance of the case rapporteur to talk about such a central economic instrument for Norwegian business, Norwegian value creation and Norwegian companies without mentioning this value creation that is the basis of all our well-being, with a single word. - And that wasn't a compliment. I would also like to say to the chairman of the committee that this is not a good example of disagreement in the opposition, rather on the contrary. This is a very good example of drawing in the same direction within a very central area of policy, namely in the field of taxation and in the area of property taxation. But I'm not talking about, as the committee leader did, the three former government partners; I'm talking about the whole opposition. I think it's pretty interesting. There is no doubt that the tax on wealth has a clear adverse impact on saving and investment and is a clear obstacle to business start-ups and start-ups. Everyone sees what the problem is: it's that you have to pay property taxes on paper values in companies where you can't take dividends. At that time, property taxes become a clean cost to businesses compared to competitors in other countries. In addition, of course, you have to pay extra taxes to collect money to pay this property tax. When, as in the vast majority of tax debates, the rapporteur focuses on the Capital list of the 100 richest in this country, it becomes a very narrow perspective compared to the tens of thousands of small business owners in that country. It's not that these small business owners are in the situation that the committee leader is talking about, that they have a choice, to move out or one. After all, they must be in the country with their business, create jobs in this country and lay the basis for value creation. I think it's a completely crazy angle of incidence, and I think a lot of those who are out in their businesses, while we're sitting here talking about this, don't think there's any good angle of incidence. But that's the government's policy, and they've followed it through their time, for the time being, by zeroing the stock discounts. And then you can think about-- and I'm sure a lot of people do-- what good ideas it's now incubated to expand the wealth tax, because that's what's written from the positions in this setting. It is estimated to extend the wealth tax. The word "further development" is used. Since it's no more to take on the stock discounts - of course you can add it and say that it shouldn't be 100 pst. Of the values, but 110, 120, 130 or 140 pst., only the imagination really sets limits-- is it probably like that, and it also says that there are properties that are to be taxed harder. It will again mean that this will be a little buttonhole stick on the rails of the hundreds richest on the case rapporteur's list, while there will be a roofrace in the head of the tens of thousands of common business owners. That's why this proposal is important, even though the Right also has a different principal approach to the property tax, and also a simple one, namely that we want it completely gone. Producing wealth placed in business almost as a criminal enterprise shows a view of business from the red-green batches to which I think one should adhere too well, especially when one sees that the tax money is used to buy up even more of the businesses, so that the state owns them. We have a private ownership of 4-5 pst. on the Oslo Stock Exchange. It's too little. There's no reason to simplify it. It should also be borne in mind that the background to this proposal is that the Norwegian Private Ownership Alliance, which is a collection of all the major business organisations, considers this to be a very important matter, particularly in a situation where the level of interest rates increases with the increase in investment costs and the effect on the price of exports. Then I think that increased wealth taxes, which are billed from the red-green ones here, are some of the things we need at least. The right considers primarily that the wealth tax should be removed and that it should be liquidated in such a way as the previous government provided, through reduced rates and increased deductions. And while we're waiting for a composition of Stortinget that will enable us to carry out our primary wish, we're of course in both small and large steps along this path. We believe that the proposal of the Christian People's Party is one of these steps, and therefore we support it subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e688	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e691	The right economic figure, Jan Tore Sanner, who is also the Vice-Chairman in the Right, has been out criticizing the Government for rising interest rates. So here the representative speaks of the Fleet of Value Creation. I will deal with this, because I think that the distribution effect has been very well documented by both the case rapporteur and the chairperson of the committee. Does the representative Fleet and Right mean that it is right now to raise the economy by NOK 5 billion? And more importantly, it's really where they'll possibly cover the sample surface that you would get with an exemption from the property tax. The second is whether the representative from the Right can define the concept of working capital. We know that savings banks around Norway use the capital we put into the bank to borrow back to businesses. Is the working capital to be exempt from taxes on wealth?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e698	Among these five questions from the representative of Klungland, I choose it with interest, because I think it's the most important thing. I believe the representative Sanner from the Right with good reason criticises the Government for this. The 14 interest increases we've now had are good -- not only for individuals, but also for business, which I pointed out in my article. This means that investment costs are increasing, and it is particularly important to reduce other costs for business. And the property tax is a clean cost to the owners. Money has to be taken from the companies to pay for it. It'll be more expensive to run the business. There'll be less profit. Tax revenue decreases, and the base of the welfare state decreases. I think that is serious, and I hope that the representative of Klungland also thinks so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e705	So my question is: does the representative Fleet and Right think that a proceeds and an extra cost on the state budget of DKK 5 billion will lead to a higher interest rate, or do they not? And where would they possibly take that loss? That's what's interesting for the voters in Norway. The fact that you're just promoting a proposal here without having an impact on it, might be of interest to the Right in terms of becoming popular, but that's where this is going to be covered in, which is important. So there's two questions: does there matter something for interest with an extra cost of NOK 5 billion, and where should the proceeds be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e711	In terms of the coverage of our alternative state budget, we tend to show it about at the same time as the government shows its deposits. Over the year, there are often very many questions, especially to the Minister of Finance, in this Chamber: how do you want to do it, that way, when you get to the budget? And will one give priority to the other? I think the opposition must also be allowed to have the same privilege. We'll give priority when we get there. Moreover, I have to say to the representative of Klungland that stimulating growth and value creation by improving the conditions for businesses, we do not see the same way, it does not give the same results, as direct public consumption and expenditure items in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e718	I take this line, because I think Rolf Terje Klungland's question deserves an answer. So it's not like in any of the alternative budgets that the Right has provided, they've put on the table $5 billion to remove the property tax. Today, however, it is said that the tax on wealth should be removed. But the Right cannot guarantee at any time in the future alternative budgets during this period that they will. Is it simply that the Right is incredibly good at distributing tax credits in the cabin and torment when it does not cost money, namely between the budget proposals, while when it comes to the budget proposals, they do not have the power to dry up as much in the public sector as they would actually do - cut welfare services, cut old age care, cut school, cut hospitals and anywhere else?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e725	I have not seen from the Red-Green parties that they believe that the tax reliefs of the Right have been tax reliefs in cabins and torments, on the contrary. We gave DKK 24 billion in tax relief in our government period. We've been criticized for that together by the red-green parties. There were no paper numbers, there were real tax cuts. And it wasn't just tax relief, it was tax relief that stimulated growth in Norway, and that makes the government that is now sitting can spend 130 billion dollars in increased tax revenue to distribute to well-being of different kinds. In fact, they lubricate so thinly that it is difficult to see it, especially I think it is particularly difficult to see it for the poor. But the money is at least spent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e732	We keep what we promise. We've made sure to increase taxes. But it's the Right who doesn't keep what they promise, because they promised to lower taxes during this period by NOK 16 billion, while what we saw in the last state budget was NOK 1.5 billion in tax bills, i.e. a fraction of what is promised in the different budgets. At the same time, we hear Højre's leader, Erna Solberg, who says that taxation is no longer a priority. That makes the question that Rolf Terje Klungland asked a good question, and that's why I repeat it: Is it so that the Right only when it doesn't cost money, like for example. in the hall here today, can say: 5 billion kroner - no, no, no; we're not just going to distribute 5 billion dollars, we're going to distribute 12 billion dollars in tax bills, but we're taking it a little over time, sorry we can't afford any of our alternative budgets? Can we believe in Right's raw tax law policy? Can we believe what they promised in the election campaign four years ago, where they said we should cut, cut, cut in the public sector to distribute tax relief, or is it just words, like today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e739	Now I have just tried -- I understand it wasn't pedagogical enough -- to explain to the representative Holmås what we did when we sat in government, how we carried out 24 billion kroner in tax reliefs, and what result it has given. Then I understand that the representative Holmås is disappointed with our alternative budgets. Maybe we are, too, because while the government has time from Christmas to October to make its budgets, we're going to make ours in a relatively short time, over a few weeks in the autumn, with limited time to cover. If only the representative Holmås makes sure that we get back to the government offices so that we get a good time, we will present the tax reliefs that he wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e744	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e747	To conclude, it is well to say that the representative Holmås on behalf of the government parties is on the good path to ensure that the fleet's wish can be fulfilled, that there will be a government change from the next election. This might be the summation of this line change. But I think it is a pleasure to hear that SV accuses the Right of not having implemented enough tax relief. Yes, I understand it's turned a little bit down on the political rhetoric, because usually when we're discussing taxes, it's the glamour number from the previous election campaign you hear, that's well-being over tax laws. But I understand the times have turned around. The starting point for this debate is to remove the property tax on working capital. Then it's fast that you don't want taxes on the richest. And as mentioned before, it's like Capital's hundred on the top-list, who serves the most, who hangs on the knag, and then you yank out and think that's what this debate is really about. It's not. That is why it becomes a problem for the red-green when this debate is confined to those who pay taxes on wealth on food. The broad alliance of business organisations, which is also behind such a proposal, has shown that precisely this part of the rhetorical system is bombing heavily. For whom does the property tax pay? Yes, it pays the small-scale farm owner. It pays the farmer. The payer the fisherman. We got a very good example of this when we had a hearing on this in the Financial Committee, at the fishing company that has to borrow money to pay its property tax. I understand that the red-green ones, so far at least, have skipped that aspect of the Norwegian wealth tax. I also think it is interesting that from the red-green side, property taxes and property taxes are added to prove at what level the total tax burden is for traders in this country. What you skip is that the new business -- many of these are knowledge companies, start-ups -- that are particularly hard hit by the taxes on wealth, have no real estate of any significance at all. So summing up property taxes and property taxes to show what the total tax burden is, I don't think it's very forward-looking. Our proposal is not to completely eliminate taxes on wealth, but to introduce a distinction between economic wealth and personal wealth. It should actually be in line with one of the main objectives of the design of the tax system, namely the consideration of value creation and employment. For some reason it is not mentioned in the comments of the majority on the proposal. We must also record in the vote that the central party in this matter is in agreement with its government colleagues to reject the proposal - even on a principle basis, although this proposal is 100 pst. in line with what the Centre Party itself has programmed for the current ageing period. So the critic who first Holmås and saw Sandal had, and who not least Klungland in the line change with the representative Fleet had, hit the Center Party completely--fully! We are aware that it is not done overnight to introduce a distinction between nutrient wealth and personal wealth. It's a job that will take time and resources. But if one actually believes that it is right to safeguard nutritional wealth, and right to continue taxing the personal wealth, it is still possible. It also shows what is e.g. is done in Sweden, although there are no fully comparable tax systems. I am pleased that the Right and the Advance Party have announced subsidiary support for our proposal. Then we'll see if it can also get further support as the debate progresses. I think it's a big point that a whole business life also thinks this is a very good idea, which appeared when we had the hearing on the proposal. It is a good and a forward-looking proposal. It will remove the unfair and very lowly justified discrimination between private Norwegian ownership on the one hand and public and foreign ownership on the other. In conclusion, you might say that business has such good times, do we have to care about the framework conditions? Well, isn't it precisely in the good times when we have room for action that we should make decisions that are forward-looking and that provide the basis for continued growth in Norwegian business and therefore also the basis for the well-being that we all depend on, not least when we're going to distribute money for all other good purposes? With this I address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e770	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has thus taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e775	The representative Syversen could not have listened to the chairman of the committee when he had his post, where he said that NOK 3.1 billion was going to happen to people with more than 1 million. gross income kr. On average, this tax rate would amount to NOK 36 000, while persons with gross income would exceed SEK 3 million. kr will get about $200,000 in tax bills. Does the representative of the Syversen think that this is actually a good policy for distribution? I must also say that when we hear the Christian People's Party talk about having turned, a listener should, because on himself you know others. We remember well what happened when the Bondevik II government arrived, where the Christian People's Party, which was in favour of a central government until the election was made, jumped over on the bourgeois side. Is Syversen well satisfied with the need to cooperate with the Progress Party and the Right from 2009, if that is what he wants with regard to the wealth tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e782	Here there were questions with a lot of ingredients, so I want to try at least to stick to what's the theme, that's wealth taxation on working capital. I also heard what the committee leader, Reidar Sandal, said about who benefits from that tax haven. The point here is that this is a tax relief that the company gets, it's about the nutrient wealth. If our proposal were to be adopted, the representative of Klungland knows very well that if you personally withdraw funds, they will be taxed. So I actually don't accept the premise that both Klungland and Sandal had. That's the point we're trying to make: here we're providing a proposal that can help create a basis for more value creation and better framework conditions for Norwegian business. In fact, I thought it was also a theme of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e789	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e793	Representatives of the Christian People's Party follow up the proposal for exemption from working capital that a number of business organisations - with the NHO at the head - have presented in a report. It is an important debate, the debate on taxes on wealth. There is an important debate on how it is designed and on the legislation to be applied at all times to the property tax. Many people see the weaknesses of today's wealth tax. However, the special feature of the debate is that few people talk about and see the weaknesses of the international option. There has been more in this debate, but it is quite absent in the media that the international alternative to property taxes is property taxes, in many cases also State property taxes. For property taxes, we have taxes on real estate. It is independent of the debt on the property. It is independent of the income which the property may generate through use. It is printed in principle on the basis of market values, which vary widely. If a neighbouring property is sold to a person with a high paying ability, it will over time also affect the taxation of your property, sail if you have not touched financially at all. Furthermore, property taxes and exemptions from property taxes exempt from tax on financial values. It exempts the entire financial industry, an industry with the best income opportunities and the largest wealth in Norway. So the transition from ‘week with taxes on wealth’ to ‘in with taxes on property’ is a huge redistribution of the tax burden. Those who go in for it, of course, know what they're doing. I'm not much in doubt about what people's choices are if you're going to choose between a property tax and a property tax. Most people pick the most modest taxes on wealth, because it's much more according to the principle of ability, much more according to what's considered fair. It was actually clarified as far back as 1881. What's really going on here right now is an attempt at a reversal of the relationship between property taxes and property taxes. In 1882, we went from taxes on income and wealth to taxes on taxes on income and wealth, and then wealth that gave a non-workable income beyond a certain level. The background to the proposal from business organisations, which is followed up by the Christian People's Party today, and which makes the theme of taxation on working capital so focused, is that as the legislation has been and partly is, it can result in the taxation of assets that do not provide work-free income - I stress: the taxation of assets that do not provide work-free income - and that is contrary to what is the starting point, namely taxes on ability. Therefore, the theme of taxes on working capital has also had a high status and strong focus in the Centre Party, which it will continue to have. As the proposal has been promoted by business organisations, the definition of working capital is so broad that it will give rise to major demarcation problems. Share capital is included but not the operating account of the enterprise. It is obvious, then, that such a definition will not be applied in relation to the purpose, where the starting point for the case is constantly anchored in the taxation of assets that do not provide job-free income. It is clarifying once again to see the Alliance of the Advance Party, the Right and the Left, which will liquidate the property tax in principle. It is not said what is the alternative, but in presenting the document from business organisations, NHO’s management let cats out of the bag and said that the alternative to this proposal was to introduce property taxes. Thus, the whole alliance that was behind this proposal was razed when you found out what the relationship is. A number of small farms, farmers and fishermen are paying taxes on wealth today. What characterises these enterprises is that they have to have a large percentage of equity, many times related to buildings and non-movable property. So you can't be financed on loans, like in more profitable industries. In such cases, net wealth is then acquired, and it is considered unreasonable that the net wealth is taxed when it is at a modest level. There has been talk here of the so-called knowledge companies - yes, which companies are not. I want to stop a little bit by it. It is used from Storting’s pulpit, the concept of ‘knowledge enterprises’ for certain enterprises, meaning that others are not. I think many of those that are defined here as small farms, farmers and fishermen are knowledge farms to the highest degree in relation to the challenges we are facing now. But many of the so-called knowledge enterprises, in the sense of the theoretical enterprises, are characterized by the fact that there is little wealth, a small amount of capital has been invested in the enterprise, and there is little impact on wealth taxes and property taxes. The centre part is behind the setting, normally. The government is working to maintain the principle of taxes on wealth, and it is working to further develop the wealth tax in order to make it fairer. Even for the property tax, as for the income tax, the ability principle is the guiding principle for the Centre Party. We'll see how far we're going to secure the wealth tax of widespread social upswing, including among seafaring businessmen. It's an important discussion to make sure that we have the main focus on the principle of ability, income taxes, taxes on a significant amount of money that gives out-of-work income, and so we can avoid having what's a worse option, what's foreshadowing the right-hand side here, that's property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e821	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e824	I was about to say that you have to get up early in the morning if you're going to get hold of all that Lundtigen says. But I understand that the main essence of the contribution was that with the proposal to remove the property tax, or to remove taxes on working capital, we will get more property tax. Now we're getting more and more of both of them. With the red-green government, we have received higher taxes on wealth in total, and you have never paid more in real estate tax than just under the red-green government. At the same time, I record that Lundtigen is now fully behind the majority's refusal to remove the property tax on working capital. If I'm not completely wrong, it says in the Center Party's program that you want to remove the wealth tax on working capital. Does this mean that it is Lundtigen who has turned around and now agrees with SV, or is it such that the whole of the Center Party has turned around and that you will no longer remove the wealth tax on working capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e833	Jan Tore Sanner pronounces himself as he always does, with very little respect for the Center Party and especially for the undersigned. I live well with that. It is at least not correct that this government increases the overall level of taxation, on the contrary. One of the pillars of the government's work has been - and is - that the total level of taxation should not be increased. If there's something that's held, I'll promise it's one of the parts. With regard to the point of working capital, there is an investigation here of working capital which implies that capital is also included. The definition of working capital is such that it is difficult to practice, to say the least. The centre party is maritime-bound by its programme formulations. We have, through what I have now said, clarified the intention of the property tax, namely an extra tax on an unemployment-free wealth in addition to a certain size. It also includes a future discussion of assets that do not provide job-free income, whether they are entitled to be taxed on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e844	I'm not so sure if this became so much clearer after Lundtigen's posts now--with all due respect. In fact, the government has helped to increase the wealth tax over the last three years. That's one of the points that the Socialist Left Party is very proud that you've managed to get, among other things. by removing the so-called stock discount, which is part of the working capital. I think almost I have to be allowed to repeat the question: is it that the central party is still to remove the wealth tax on working capital? If you are still in favour, why do you choose to join with the Workers' Party and SV in a fundamental rejection of the proposal to remove the tax on working capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e853	The centre party stands by its programme formulations, and one of them is that the centre party does not want property taxes on working capital. What is at the heart of the matter is how we develop the legislation on property taxes in the future. To repeat once again, the estimate of the property tax is an extra tax on a wealth that gives you a job-free income. That's the whole justice argument for the property tax. That's the principle you have to bring with you all the way, and that's why this government has increased investment, among other things. on shares, which is quite correct, while at the same time taking the increased tax on shares, to increase the rebates, which benefit all, regardless of the assets you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e858	I'm going to base what Lundtegegen said in his statement, that the Centre party was occupied with, was that at least there should be something about the bias that happens within today's wealth tax on working capital. Then my question is, can the Storting expect to be presented with something that goes in the direction that Lundtigen here describes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e863	There is a continuing discussion between government parties about the design of the tax system in the future, including the property tax. The government also introduces changes in the taxes on wealth in the future budget. I don't want to shoot here what's coming. I just keep high and clear the principle of ability and justice that the red-greens stand for, and I also have great respect for the fact that the Christian People's Party is also based on. So here's the possibility of alliances.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e868	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e871	As others have pointed out before me, Norway is a country that still has taxes on wealth. Many countries have abolished this tax - most recently Sweden under the Social Democratic Government. The rationale for the winding-up in Sweden was the same as the Left in terms of the property tax here in Norway. The tax on wealth has a number of unfortunate long-term effects on saving and investment and is a direct obstacle to stimulating an innovative Norway. In particular, the tax on wealth increases unnecessarily the tax burden on many start-ups. This, in conjunction with the so-called active industrial policy of the Government, which is essentially about increasing the state ownership of Norwegian business, gives us a development that does not stimulate a widespread Norwegian ownership of Norwegian business, but a ownership policy that favours public and foreign ownership. It is possible that this can be called active, but in our opinion it is the wrong activity. The left wholeheartedly supported the tax reform adopted by the Bondevik II government, which would gradually eliminate the property tax as a counterpart to the imposition of dividend tax. This was a comprehensive reform that was also supported by industry, which gave this change in tax sizes. It is regrettable that the government has not followed up that part of the reform, but rather uses the property tax as a symbol of cheap political rhetoric to punish the rich. It is a fact that small and medium-sized enterprises will often depend on the capital of domestic investors. High taxation on savings can therefore limit access to capital for this part of business, so that socio-economical projects are not implemented. Thus, in the context of the introduction of the screening method, which led to an increase in the tax on equity income, it was a prerequisite for the reform of the then government parties that the wealth tax should be reduced and phased out in the long term. This is necessary in order not to increase the overall taxation of capital, which would be contrary to developments in other countries. The Left therefore considers that the property tax must be eliminated in the long term, but does not share the view of the proposers that the first step on the road should be to abolish taxes on wealth on working capital. Here I and the Left are more in line with the Government and the Minister of Finance - it becomes artificial to distinguish between so-called working capital and other capital in property taxation, and it is difficult to find a sustainable definition of what is regarded as more working capital than other capital. It was also the attitude of the previous government, which did not prioritize the liquidation of the property tax on working capital before a general liquidation. A liquidation of the property tax should, in the view of the Left, take place as the previous government provided, through reduced rates and higher deductions. In this connection, I refer you to the letter from the Minister of Finance to the Group of the Left, dated 12 March of this year, where it is clear that the proceeds of the liquidation of the property tax on working capital are estimated at approximately the same level. 5 billion kroner - can put the entry point in the property tax to a place between 1 million dollars. SEK and SEK 1.6 million. kr, depending on the models selected. The left considers this to be a more targeted approach to reducing taxes on wealth, because it protects many of the companies that propose and the Norwegian private ownership alliance are concerned with protecting from taxes on wealth, but also because it exempts many minimum pensioners and others with relatively low income from taxes on wealth. As you can see, the left's model is much more social than the proposers add up to. The left does not therefore support the proposal of the proposers, either primarily or secondaryly, but will continue to work towards a gradual phasing-out of the entire tax on wealth, in order to stimulate the spread of private ownership in Norwegian business, which Norway needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e888	Then André N. Skkelstad gave an explanation of vote. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e894	The proposal that exists would, if adopted, provide significant tax relief to some of Norway’s richest people. Exempting so-called working capital from taxes on wealth means, for example: that shares would no longer be subject to taxes on wealth. It is well documented that ownership of shares in our country is distributed unevenly. That is why this proposal provides more than 1 million people with income. NOK a total tax bill of over NOK 3 billion. Persons with income above 3 million. With this proposal, kr would receive an average tax relief of more than NOK 200000. This is a lot of money, and I'm asking myself whether this is the social best use of NOK 3 billion. Others have raised the practical and economic arguments against this proposal. My focus is on the allocation policy arguments against the proposal. The right-hand side has promoted a number of proposals that would result in zero taxes for many of the richest. Through several changes in inheritance taxes and property taxes, the bourgeois parties, individually or collectively, will create exemptions and gaps that will ensure that rich people will no longer pay taxes in Norway. I would strongly warn against this. A fundamental prerequisite for the conclusion of the Norwegian welfare state is that everyone is involved in financing it. If the right-hand side now wants to make Norway’s richest people zero-tax providers, this will mean that far more than the undersigned would feel that this is very unfair and will clearly help undermine the general tax morality. It may not be surprising that the Right Party and the Advance Party are in favour of such proposals, but I would say I am disappointed and perhaps also a little surprised that there is a Christian People's Party that is at the forefront of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e907	My right hand isn't always on top, but basically I'm good. But when I listened to the case spokesman, I began to get really upset, because I thought so clearly he said that the background of the Christian People's Party's proposal to remove taxes on wealth on working capital was an attempt to reintroduce the zero-taxor, that this would have a disastrous distributive effect, and that the background should be that we fear a great escape from the country among the richest. No, the background to our proposal is simply a handshake for, among other things. small-scale farmers, farmers, fishermen, etc. In the Soria Moria Declaration we can read: ‘A diversity of ownership in Norwegian business is a strength for access to capital and competence. There is a need for diverse ownership, private and state ownership, and national and foreign ownership.» Yeah, the right one is great, but the practical policy shows that the three government parties are very committed to public ownership, while the commitment to private ownership varies greatly - apparently depending on who the private owner or private owners are. In this regard, the government parties have simply been given the opportunity to follow up on the quirky eunuchs of ownership with practical action. Private Norwegian owners may not be treated more strictly than public owners or foreign owners. This is contrary to the premises of tax reform, and it may not be possible to encourage a particular targeted approach to the shortcomings highlighted by the government statements. Most countries in Europe, regardless of whether the government is red, green, yellow or blue, believe that the basis for taxes on wealth is so weak or so difficult to follow up in a fair manner that the form of taxation has been abolished. We do not go so far in the proposal, but the advantage of removing wealth taxes on working capital should be open to all who want an active industrial policy. Business would have a handshake. The political confidence would be strengthened, and a broad majority could see action behind fine words about long-termity and stable framework conditions. As I said, this is simply about giving a better everyday life to small business owners, farmers, fishermen, etc. I initially believed that there were multiples for in this room. But at least the debate has shown that - to put it mildly - there is a reasonable wide margin in the view of taxes on wealth, including government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e925	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e928	The representative of Sørfonn spoke about small and medium-sized enterprises. He was talking about farmers and fishermen. At the same time, this debate has found that DKK 3.1 billion is for people with more than 1 million. kr in gross income and that they have more than 3 million. kr in gross income that pays taxes on wealth will receive a tax relief of NOK 200000, while the average is NOK 36000. Does the representative, Mr Sørfonn, really think that it is farmers, fishermen and small and medium-sized enterprises that will then receive the large tax credits? Should not the Christian People's Party rather be pleased with the direction that this government has actually taken in relation to increasing the bottom line for these groups, which is far below the income level to which I refer here?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e933	I do not know how good the contact representative Klungland has with the business community, I believe the contact is reasonable. I know a lot of small business owners -- farmers, fishermen, etc. -and they don't bathe in luxury, but they wear to make everyday life hang together. That's precisely why we've got this broad alliance in the business world, from the NHO to the Bondelag. It's almost a bottom of itself that you can get such a wide alliance. They are asking at least to avoid taxes on wealth on working capital. When this coincides with the vision that the Christian People's Party has had for many, many years, it should be lacking that we do not make such a proposal. We actually think this is a good tool, which would help to strengthen ownership, businesses, etc. To put it this way: we're a little disappointed, because we had believed that this was a compromise that the government and the government party might want to seize.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e938	I have to say I react quite strongly when one says that people who pay taxes on wealth are struggling from day to day to get the ends to meet. I don't know what category Sørfonn puts the representative Klungland - myself - in. I don't pay any taxes on wealth at all, but I think I'm doing pretty well in Norwegian society anyway. And that's exactly what is the basis of all taxes -- that we have a welfare society that provides opportunities for everyone. That the representative Sørfonn can claim that people who pay taxes on wealth are struggling from day to day to get the ends to meet, he just has to be allowed to elaborate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e947	I'm going to be very careful and not be hounded and superior, but I feel a certain need to be informed about how the tax system works, because it's once so that the wealth tax has to pay whether one has income or not. Many of the small business owners - farmers, fishermen, etc. -as I know, it doesn't always have a surplus in operation. So removing the wealth tax on working capital is such a rigorous and good tool that I'm still tired of realizing that the government party doesn't throw itself over this and said, "Yes, this is good, this is what we do!"
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e952	The Christian People's Party has presented a proposal that is identical to that of the NHO and so on. have entered into, in respect of the demarcation of working capital. In that proposal, equity capital is defined as working capital, while the operating capital of the enterprise is not working capital. Does not the representative see problems with such demarcation if it is to be implemented in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e957	Our starting point is that removing taxes on wealth on working capital will be a good tool. Then we have asked the Government to sort this out and make a proposal with effect from 1 January 2009. I assume that Lundtigen is so close to the Ministry of Finance that he knows that not everyone over there appreciates this, and they problem how difficult it is to set a limit between what is working capital and what is not. But the Swedes did this, and they lived well with it for years. In our proposal, we haven't considered in detail how to define what is working capital and not, but the main leads are given. When each one has to set the limit in each case, we actually have, so strangely right, confidence that the Ministry of Finance could at least be involved in helping to create a clarification that would be as simple as possible, as fair as possible and as practical as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e966	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e969	I thought I would make a careful attempt to sum up some parts of the debate and at least answer some of the challenges that have arisen, and some of the claims that I believe cannot be contradicted. One piece is the discussion of the intention behind the proposal, which both representatives of the Christian People's Party here raised. When it is said that the purpose of promoting this proposal is to help those who are struggling in their everyday lives - and those who are struggling, the small business owners - I do not understand that one cannot make a more accurate proposal on the part of the Christian People's Party. Because it's not that they make more than 1 million. kr, which would be the ones that got most of the tax here. Those with an income of more than 1 million. kr, does not fit exactly into the description of the wearers as Ingreigt S. Sørfonn presented here. So I believe that the Christian People's Party has a significant explanation problem when they say that it is precisely this proposal that will help these laborers within the industries. If you wanted to do something for the poor, help those who have the lowest agricultural incomes, the lowest fishing incomes, the lowest industrial incomes, you should go in and help them through bottom deductions, through other targeted schemes, instead of taking it on the property tax. We have a reason in our government for a fair tax system. For SV, it's very clear that we first have to have a fair income tax. We all agree on that. That's the most important thing we can do. The fact that we reintroduced tax on dividends - as the previous government removed as the first it did in 2002, which led to huge increases in the differences - has made us now have less income differences in Norway. In other words, fair distribution of income tax is the most important means of ensuring fair distribution. But in addition, you have to do something about the big wealth differences. We are trying to create a system of inheritance taxes, property taxes and property taxes that create the most justice possible. I believe that we have been quite successful in the years we have been in government. Finally, there are two things that I think are necessary to clarify. It was produced here as if this were the company's tax. It's not the corporate tax, it's the people who own the corporations, their taxes. That's why it's important to see if you're in the wealth tax position or not, actually a little bit important. The last thing I should say in this debate is that this is a proposal that I think would have aroused much broader debate and more sympathy on the part of the government parties if one could obtain a death list of thousands of companies that have gone doll because of this tax. But you don't know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e985	I don't know if I put myself on this platform, if there's any greater chance of getting a little bit more into the representative Holmås, so he understands the intention behind the proposal. At least it's worth a try. It is not just for the sake of the ‘slitters’, to which the representative Holmås referred, that the proposal has been promoted. But we figured out exactly who this proposal would actually help, in contrast to that representative Holmås, Sandal and others. in their contributions, as if this were a fiscal policy for the hundreds of the richest in this country. It was just to show that there's a lot more than that. The main basis for this proposal is that we believe - and we have good professional evidence to say this - that it ensures that we have a tax system that contributes more to value creation and employment than it does today. I registered that it was not at all inside the main post of the representative Holmås as rapporteur-general at all. It does say a lot about how busy you are with the creation of value added and a tax system that generates value creation, in the red-green camp. But that doesn't mean that we other people can sit passive and just accept that there's zero nothing and nothing from this government in that way. No, we are promoting our own proposals. Then I realize that it doesn't fall into the taste of parts of the government parties. I listened with interest to what Mr Lundtägen said, and if there is also an indication of what the Government is going to do in the budget, we are looking forward to discussing this further, but then, from our point of view, this is a proposal that will provide value creation and employment at a time that may not be like now, where we have an incredibly good economic basis also for large parts of business, but will be a forward-looking proposal that can ensure that we also have it when, as we know, a little worse time is coming in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e997	Just very briefly at the end of the debate: I think the question to the representative Holmås after the death list of the thousands of companies that are most exposed to the wealth tax and perhaps other framework conditions is just as little relevant as running around with the list of the hundreds richest in the country, which I perceive SV is concerned about. So I would like to say that I think it is fine at the end of such a debate that the case-rapporteur actually praises the previous government for its justice in tax policy, as I see it as the most important thing for the representative Holmås, because he says that the biggest contribution from this government to the justice they want in tax policy is that the reintroduction of tax on dividends on shares. It is true that tax on dividends on shares was part of the new tax reform that was introduced and implemented in the previous period. In fact, it was effective from the 2006 fiscal year under this government, but it was our government that had it in its reform. But - and that should also be added - the prerequisite was of course that we should gradually abolish the property tax. So it's half a justice the representative Holmås is talking about introducing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1004	I don't stop wondering about Right Tax Amnesia, because it's quite obvious that they've forgotten their own tax jurisdiction. The tax office went to the very richest people in this country when the tax on dividends imposed by the Stoltenberg government was removed by Minister of Finance Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. That they forgot, they're going to write in their own account. I can't understand why they're forgetting it - or I can really understand it. It's because they have to have an incredibly bad conscience because they introduced a tax that led them in the first year to give NOK 1.7 billion, which was more than what they spent on combating poverty in four years, and then they made sure to have zero tax on all withdrawals of dividends of NOK 200 billion in total. This meant tax relief for the richest people in this country of 25 billion dollars, which enabled them to adapt to the new tax reform, which we implemented quite properly in 2006. There's something about you saying: in 2006 we're going to introduce tax on dividends - see here, we're going to do it, but first we're going to open a huge tax hole, which will allow you to take all the money from! It's kind of at the level of the previous government. That you forget from the right that you opened it to the tax haven-- well, it's going to be on the right hand side. Luckily, the Christian People's Party is not such who are very proud all the time that they have removed taxes on dividends. To them I have one thing to say, and it is that in a situation of historically low unemployment, with historically high value creation, with the strongest high economic activity of 40 years, I think it is a little special that one does not consider one's own rhetoric in relation to taxation, and that the removal of property taxes will lead to enormously much more value creation. We have a government that has increased the wealth tax, more affected those who sit on stock values. We have provided for a total increase in taxes of NOK 13.5 billion compared to what the previous government proposed for 2006. So we've increased tax revenue in these years, we have a history of recession, and then we say, look here, that kind of tax policy really leads to the opposite! But reality has proved that we are the ones who are right, and then I think you shouldn't at least be sure that you're sitting with the whole truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1011	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1027	It is quite special to release completely in a big debate. I haven't had a chance to do it that many times. The second, which is even more special, is to stand here with the 1st May pin, where it says 'Common Globe, Joint Responsibility', now right after the Committee has been in Argentina and Brazil, and see how successful Norway has actually been in getting a welfare society that is very good and that we have every reason to be proud of, and then to go into more trivial debates that we have in the Norwegian economy, so at least I feel it in relation to this case. In this case, the majority of the Committee points out that the minimum deduction for employees is an allowance for the deduction of private costs from the acquisition of income in general income. The minimum deduction is also a policy instrument for distribution, since the deduction is relatively more important for low-wage groups than for high-wage groups. If the costs of acquisition of income have been higher than the minimum deduction, a person may nevertheless choose to deduct documented costs from the income of employees. The difference compared to traders is that they are deducted from the actual costs of entrepreneurial income. In that case, net entrepreneurial income is included in general income. The majority of the Committee indicates that the deduction is a general deduction granted in general income regardless of whether it is income from wages, salaries, capital, pensions or business. The personal deduction, previously called the class deduction, has been a central element of our tax system for a longer time. Through this type of deduction, which also has many countries, we achieve a progressive income tax, so that those with low incomes get the lowest tax rate as a percentage of total income. If the suspicion of the rapporteur is correct and if a person wishes to make it easier for traders to increase the deductions in general income, he should, in my view, choose to increase the deduction rather than the minimum deduction. The majority of the Committee points out that the difference between employees and traders is that the latter is deducted from the actual cost of entrepreneurial income in the calculation of personal income, because net entrepreneurial income is included in the basis for the calculation of personal income. In addition, traders would also be able to carry losses to the deduction of entrepreneurial income in previous years. In addition, individual enterprises with employees also receive an additional deduction. On the other hand, employees do not have the right to deduct any expenses for the calculation of their personal income, including minimum deductions, if the costs do not go beyond that. The majority also points to the fact that traders generally have high costs in relation to gross income and that there are very many traders with low entrepreneurial income who have this in combination with employee or pension income. Therefore, the amount of business would have taken advantage of all or part of a minimum deduction of either pension or employee income already. The proposal that we are discussing today to allow self-employed workers to choose a business deduction in line with the employees' minimum deduction is therefore a tax system that is reversed because the main reason why there is no minimum deduction from entrepreneurial income is that traders are deducted from actual expenditure. The deduction of actual expenditure reduces both net entrepreneurial income taxed as general income by 28 p.m. and the imputed personal income of industries subject to social security taxes and top taxes. The tax value of the deduction to the trader is therefore marginal up to 51 pst. The minimum deduction for wages and salaries and pensions, on the other hand, has only a tax value of 28 p.m., since it only reduces general income and not personal income. In practice, there will also be a very unclear distinction between private and business-related costs. It will be difficult, if not impossible, to prevent or control whether private costs are deducted from entrepreneurial income. Entrepreneurs have tax advantages that employees and pensioners do not have: they are deducted from previous years’ deficits, so they receive an additional deduction from their personal income if they have employees. If they pay a quota to an employer’s organisation, they write of the entire expenditure, while the employees who are known to be deducted only from a certain amount of their quota. The rapporteur does not see that the representatives have proposed that they be treated in the same way as employees in that area. Economic operators in the primary industries also have separate deductions from general income, such as the agricultural deduction, the fishing deduction, etc. The option of choosing minimum deductions over the deduction of actual expenditure would therefore discriminate against traders with low deductions. Let me give you an example: two businesses with the same profitability, but one has actual costs of NOK 10000 and the other NOK 67,000, will receive equal deductions from general income. We estimate that very few traders, if any, will take advantage of the minimum deduction if only one minimum deduction is given per. taxpayers, as it is for employee income. This is because many have entrepreneurial income in combination with employee income and they already make use of the minimum deduction of their employee income. In the Workers' Party, we realize that more people in the opposition want a lower tax burden in Norway, and that perhaps some people also want a different tax system from what the Government adds. Of course, this is permitted, but in any case tax proposals such as this should be seen in the context of other systemic changes in the tax system. We also record that the same opposition repeatedly promotes tax proposals without being as willing to talk about the effect of these at the other end of Velferds-Norway. Of course, they are allowed to do the same. But fortunately, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I am also allowed to say, as I said to Finansvisen on 3 March: ‘The proposal has been removed from the air and is not related to the tax reform or our tax system This is tax relief for celebrities. [[...]] At the same time, it can lead to more people being successful without employment security, pensions and social benefits.’ That's the way it is in this case. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee does not support the proposals made by the representatives but recommends that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1063	In my opinion, the case-speaker's presentation of this matter was negative. Many of the arguments he uses against such a deduction are, of course, arguments that can also be used against the minimum deduction for wage earners, i.e. that this turns out differently, and that some have an advantage of it, while others don't. This is also the case with any nutrient deduction. The Group of the Party of European Progressive Democrats believes that this is a constructive proposal, which we want to make further progress. So the Progress Party does not want to jump on this proposal without giving us an impact assessment and an assessment of how this will turn out. But we think this is such an interesting proposal that it excites a closer assessment, an explanation, which can then be submitted to the Stortinget. We also propose this in this matter, in the law of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. One of the reasons why we think this is interesting is that this will make it easier - it will make it easier for the individual businessman, it will make it easier for the accountants of the businessman, and it will also make it easier for the equation office, which is to check that this is correct. It'll also be an improvement on the business environment, and we think that's positive. We believe that the small businesses, individuals, etc., are very important both for employment and for the creation of value in the country. And then we think it's important to facilitate and try to improve the framework conditions in different areas. That is why we are proposing to settle this proposal. We think it's a shame that there's no plurality for it. In conclusion, I will present the proposal from the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party to which I have already referred and which is therefore in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1076	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1079	I see that the rapporteur's input to this proposal is that he comes home from South America to this excellent welfare society and finds it trivial to discuss the business environment. But it is business that has created the welfare state that we have, that has laid the foundation for it. That's exactly why I don't think it's trivial to discuss this, I think on the contrary that it must be an excellent occasion. There have been significant increases in the minimum deductions for ordinary workers in recent years, not least under the Bondevik II Government. This is an important tax policy instrument, not least to increase the supply of work, and we need it in a situation where there is a cry for labour. It has also contributed to a significant increase in total tax revenue and the fact that the Government now has large amounts at its disposal. However, it is also important to stimulate self-employed workers in the same way, because many businesses start in the small with self-employed people. In the context of the tax reform, the Committee of Inquiry looked at this and demonstrated that the self-employed have fallen behind ordinary workers. That is why we think this is an interesting proposal from the Left, and we are together with others to ask for an investigation of this, because there is a discrimination going on. This, too, together with the increase in taxes on wealth, can hamper the growth of business start-ups and entrepreneurs. I also think that there may be simplification possibilities with such a deduction for some of the smallest businesses, where documentation of some types of expenditure might be replaced by a template deduction. In the notes, the position makes it like deducting actual costs of entrepreneurial income - i.e. at the person income level - is almost a special advantage, but the actual costs of entrepreneurial income are not a tax deduction from the public. It is simply a deduction from the operating costs that you have, and it should only be lacking if this is not deductible from the entrepreneurial income, which is also at the person income level. I think this is quite strange. It's a little bit like in the previous case we've been discussing here today, that there's going to be a lot of discussion about the distribution profile, which is going to be guiding in all of the discussions about tax changes. In the last two or three years, I think you should have really seen the dynamics of tax relief, which means that when you stimulate business, business quits with increased total tax revenue. I would also like to say two things at the end -- first of all, this is what the rapporteur is talking about, that this might be a tax haven for celebrities. It is impossible to prevent people who are self-employed from becoming known people, but that cannot prevent us from creating systems that must apply to everyone. And the last one: I also think this case shows that the opposition stands together, not on special issues, not so much about individual matters, but in the direction and in the sense that tax relief is and can be stimulating to business, thereby increasing the value creation and improving the welfare community. It's very important to stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1096	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1099	First of all, I would like to comment on the direction that the fleet absolutely believes is the right one, despite the fact that his government did not propose this in the previous period as they laid the direction in relation to the tax system that he has said today. The question is: When the representative is as principle as he is with regard to equal treatment of employees and traders - I have not understood it so that the Right believes that an employee can deduct from his union quota 100 p.m., while a trader can do so - can we expect the Right to present a proposal on this in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1106	No, we're not going to promote that. On the contrary, we have believed that the increase in the deduction of the trade union quota, after the red-green government joined, has gone over all the boots, to use a rather popular expression. It's just a little bit of counting on the percentages, you can see that it's increased very, very much more than absolutely any other deduction. When it comes to not proposing this in the government, I don't think that's a very good argument. We do not propose it now either, but we have seen that tax incentives are very important for business. The results are excellent for the big society, for the state, for the welfare state, and therefore we vote for the Government to investigate this too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1113	Now the Right actually shows its true me and its true face, because they're going to go against the fact that workers are going to get subtracted when they organize, while they're for business to subtract 100 pst. Does the fleet not agree that it is really Right's policy, that, cutting public budgets, taking from the weakest and giving tax credits to the richest? Or does he have a better reason for what he just said in this substitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1118	It must be the questioner's description of how this is viewed by the Right. With regard to the deduction of the union quota, which I understand Klungland is very concerned about, I have said that I think it has increased too much, and especially when we see how the minimum deductions have otherwise increased. I also think you can go into this matter. I think, without my kicking, it's quite certain that it's mentioned, among other things. in the Minister of Finance's answer, that the minimum deductions have increased a lot, and that they - and it is also stated in the Tax Act - will include very much of the expenditure you have when you are at work. One of those costs is the union quota. You get a special deduction first, they're covered by standard deductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1126	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1129	The case concerns the proposal for a new economic deduction, the right of a seafaring trader to also have a template. As the debate has shown, and as I understand it, the reason for the proposal is that there is a lack of fairness in the taxation of entrepreneurial income versus employee income. The person deduction has increased less than the minimum deduction and there is some reason why one has come up with a new proposal to introduce a so-called nutrient deduction for seafarers. What is then the question is whether there is an appropriate instrument to achieve more taxes on ability, which we in the Center Party sense is at the bottom of the whole argument. The minimum deduction for employees is a deduction from private expenditure for the acquisition of income in general income. The person deduction is a general deduction given in general income, regardless of whether it is remuneration, capital, pension or entrepreneurial income. The deduction has been a central element of the tax system for a very long time. This type of deduction, which many countries have, provides for a progressive income tax, so that those with low incomes receive the lowest tax rate as a percentage of total income. The minimum deduction has gone from a template related to actual expenditure to become an even stronger instrument in the policy of distribution. While the person deduction in 1992 was NOK 21 700 in class 1, in 2008 only NOK 38 850 in class 1. On the other hand, the minimum deduction has increased from NOK 7 000 in 1989 to NOK 67 000 in 2008. Therefore, the option states that the simplest instrument to ensure a better distribution profile also for traders is to increase the deduction towards what has happened with the minimum deduction. So the Central Party has come to realize that we're happy with this setting, because it indicates a way to tackle this challenge without introducing a new deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1140	The President of the Court began his journey to Argentina and Brazil. I have been on the same trip, sail if I did not get the pleasure of sharing it with the case rapporteur. What may have hit me the most was how a country becomes if you let populism rule. Populism as political ideology -- what does it do to a country? I believe Argentina is an example of a country guided by populist ideology, which shows the long-term consequences of populistism for a country. I agree with the rapporteur, and I am also very proud of the major reforms that have been made in this country. I'm not going to dwell on the fact that most of the major reforms in this country are my party that has stood by. But I want to pull the line back to the big reformer, Gunnar Knudsen. What Gunnar Knudsen was able to do was combine the big, important and heavy social reforms with a founding process, a way of creating jobs, a way of looking at how to pass on the future. That's why I don't think this is a small thing, because this is about a political way of thinking where you actually value creating businesses as much as sharing between those who have a lot and those who have little, and creating a social security network in a society. In fact, the two things are related. If they do not do so for the case rapporteur, they will do so in the view of the Left. Norway must have companies that succeed in international competition to ensure value creation and thus our common future well-being. Good conditions don't get off the sea. Efforts are required, political will for renewal and concentrated efforts. In order to create and secure jobs, general and good framework conditions are essential for all parts of business and, secondly, targeted efforts to ensure the undergrowth of unborn enterprises and the development of more and better knowledge-based enterprises. That is what Norway will survive in the future. Therefore, public sector instruments need to focus more on innovation, transformation and innovation. We must release creativity and creativity, we must invest in entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, and there must be less regulation and regulation. The policy that is good for the small enterprises is almost without exception good for the large enterprises, but it is not necessarily the opposite. Therefore, the Left is particularly concerned with good framework conditions for the smallest enterprises and for maritime operators. It is this recognition that the left has taken over when we now propose that a seafaring trader be entitled to a deduction in line with the right of ordinary employees to a minimum deduction. The proposal of the left is primarily intended as a simplification measure by allowing sea-going traders not to substantiate costs in exchange for a flat-rate deduction. I note that despite the beautiful promises of simplification and reduction of the business form, the government parties do not want to follow up the rhetoric of practical policy this time either. The left wants a simpler and flat tax system with approximately equal tax rates between labour and capital and fewer deductions. The most targeted deductions will be large deductions or minimum deductions which take into account the existence of a number of expenditures which can be regarded as expenditure on the acquisition of income and which are therefore not to be taxed. Whereas, for ordinary employees, this has been taken into account mainly through undocumented minimum deductions, maritime operators must document all expenditure relating to the deduction of taxable income. Too many people are concerned with many small costs that each individual has to be documented, with the additional burden it has in terms of time that goes with this type of unnecessary paperwork, and the costs incurred in terms of control and audit. The minimum deduction for employees has increased considerably in recent years, from NOK 7 000 in 1989 to NOK 67 000 in 2008. That's an increase of 850 pst. within 20 years. The deduction has gone from being a template deduction related to actual labour costs to a tax deduction of major importance for employees. A consequence of this discrimination is, for example: that self-employed cultural workers with a taxable income of EUR 200000 pay up to 18 000 more in taxes than an employed cultural worker with the same income. To the extent that employees are deducted from labour-income-related costs in addition to actual expenditure, it is unreasonable, in the view of the Left, for traders not to be granted the same relief. The left therefore considers that a right to provide seafarers with the option of choosing a deduction in line with and to the extent of the right of ordinary workers to a minimum deduction should be introduced. Suffering if the proposal is not supported in the Chamber today, I am pleased that the proposal is widely supported by both the NHO, the Federation of Enterprises and the Association of Norway's Authorised Accounting Directors, all of whom have made positive comments in connection with the work of the Financial Committee on the proposal. I am also pleased that the other opposition parties are very much on the way to expressing sympathy with the proposal to ask the Government to put forward such a system in the context of the presentation of the State budget in 2009. As the Left also writes in the comments in this position, we are at least pleased and satisfied that the rapporteur and the majority in the form of a comment have opted for a different rhetoric from that put forward in the Financial Newspaper on 3 March of this year, that the proposal is populist and not related to the tax system. They prefer a more technocratic rejection of the proposal, the sail if the rapporteur came back to his old argument earlier. It is also alarming, or perhaps it is just not, that the government parties are concerned that more people are going to become sea-going traders, or their own success, as the case-law rapporteur actually called it in the Financial Paper. I'll end by lifting my eyes a little bit. In 15 years, Norway will be a well-trained society. 80 pst. higher education will be provided by the population. This will lead most people to request jobs that are perceived to be relevant. The distinction between work and leisure time, between work and home, will be expanded more and more. The labour market needs to be more flexible. We want to change jobs more often. Many will choose to go straight to the market with their knowledge and not detour through an employer. It is a development that the Left would like to welcome, because it will be good for the environment, good for the individual, and it will be good for Norway as a nation. It's going to be possible to do as the government does, to fight these forces. But I'm sure they'll come. It's likely, as the government does, to point out that investing in innovation and new businesses is populism, but I think Gunnar Knudsen would have been more proud of this proposal than of the argument it meets. Finally, I would like to include the Left's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1174	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1179	There were a lot of things you could grab into this post, but I'm going to make it pretty simple for the representative from the left. I just want to say first that we fundamentally disagree that this will lead to a simplification of the tax system. On the contrary, actual food costs and private expenditure are almost impossible to address. As we know, the left is for flat tax. I just want to ask if more deductions and increased deductions are related to the flat tax that Left wants. When does the Left propose what the flat tax should contain? I do not see that they are proposing this in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1186	If the representative Klungland had listened to what I said, he would realize that we do not want a flat tax, but a flat tax. We want less deductions. Simplifying with the stencil deductions versus sitting and calculating the attachment is a simplification. If the Government believes that stencils make things more difficult than sitting with appendices, it means that the government parties have little knowledge of the everyday life of owners of small enterprises. Nor do we understand how it can be difficult to see the difference between private deductions and deductions that should actually have been done in the company, and that it should be more difficult to see with a template than with today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1193	No more lines have been requested. Nor has anyone asked for the floor in case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1213	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1229	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - That's to look at as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1238	The cultural school is in many ways a success story. He is also an ambitious bet that requires continuous quality assurance and discussion. Therefore, the big message about the cultural school is important for the further development of the initiative. The majority of the committee boasts that they override the objectives of the message. The cultural school shall be a national initiative in which the cultural and training sector cooperates to contribute to the experience, knowledge and understanding of all kinds of professional expressions of art and culture at the school. The Committee has been well-managed and has received numerous contributions, including: in the open ear. The message indicates that the main lines of the bet are passed on. It is suggested that the cultural school should be extended to further education. The Committee is in favour of the extension. The opposition party said on its page that the extension should not lead to less secure funding of the central schemes. Rather, the central resources should be strengthened so that production on the ground floor does not become harmful. The majority of the committee represents a continuation of the model we have today, where the county council and the municipality are responsible for governing with most of the funds for the cultural school. I assume that the individual parties will do their best for their positions. So now I want to bring forward some things that are particularly important to us in the Christian People's Party. A closer interaction between the cultural and education sectors is needed. Cultural schooling is based on close cooperation between two social sectors with partly different objectives, traditions and languages. It is important to create a common understanding in both sectors that artistic and cultural experiences are an important complement to the ordinary instruction. It is also important to stress that it is the cultural sector's responsibility to deliver the contents of the cultural school and that the projects are of high quality. The evaluation report points out that there is a somewhat tense relationship between school and the cultural sector. And as the message shows, there is little knowledge of the integrity of the cultural school that is based on research. The Christian People's Party makes proposals together but the Right and the Left that a research programme should be launched to increase knowledge of the arts and culture sector's relationship to the training field. An important objective of the research programme must be to increase knowledge of the integrity of the cultural school system and of how to achieve better cooperation between the training sector and the cultural sector. The contents of the cultural school shall be supplied professionally and in good quality conditions. Professionalism applies in that context to content, form, presentation and adaptation to the target group. Strengthening the competence of stakeholders is important. For example, the actors in the field of art must be encouraged to take advantage of what is available in the field of pediatric and artistic competence. In a larger image, I believe that training for children and young people must be strengthened to a greater extent than today. in the training of art. I also believe that the cultural spheres can participate more fully in the design of the artistic content of the Cultural School and in the educational organization of the target group. On the cultural spheres there is a great deal of competence, but too little resources to exploit the potential. I would like to point out the Cultural Production Centre in Volda, where actors from different parts of the country are allowed to develop and test productions to promote the quality of art productions for children and young people. This is particularly relevant with regard to ensuring quality production for the cultural school. It is important that this is supported financially so that it can still be ensured. I would also like to point out the project ‘Students as organisers’ under the direction of the Rikskonsertane and Musik i School, which can show good results when it comes to strengthening cooperation between the training sector and the cultural sector. This scheme should be extended to other start-ups as well. I am also positive that networks of expertise such as The Riksforum has a clear role to play. Arts and culture should play an important role in the development of quality and content in kindergarten. Good art experiences can contribute to a strengthened cultural competence for children. I therefore found it exciting that a meeting committee of my Government should consider an extension of the cultural school to kindergartens as well. In some municipalities there is a good cooperation between school, local artists and church, but I believe the church's potential as part of the cultural school should be exploited better, and that church must have its place in the cultural school. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has in the vote, or where we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1272	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1275	The cultural school bag, introduced by the previous Stoltenberg government, is a great cultural action for children and young people. It's an ambitious cultural effort, which has a broad political uprising, and it's a commitment that requires us to keep focusing on improvement and development. St.meld. No 8 gives clear signals of the government's ambition: the cultural school bag should be continued and strengthened. The main objectives of the message are that the cultural school bag should be a national initiative in which the cultural and training sector cooperates to help school students to experience different professional expressions of art and culture. The cultural school system is an important factor in the achievement of the school’s learning objectives for aesthetic subjects. It is also important to look into the context of the various cultural activities aimed at children and young people in general, and we note that the evaluation of the cultural school system shows that it is precisely important to look at how to achieve improved cooperation between the school system and the cultural school system. We agree. We would like to stress that the offer to children and young people through the cultural school system should primarily be with professional artists and cultural workers, which is in line with the main perspective both in St.meld. No 38 for 2002-2003 The cultural school bag, and in St.meld. No 8, which we treat today. We're glad there's cross-political agreement on that very perspective. It's just the Progress Party that -- I'd almost said -- its habit belief suggests that professional art expressions aren't so dangerous with, just the amateurs get away with it. It's important about leisure culture and amateur culture. This government has also increased the subsidies to the vital and flourishing voluntary cultural life in the rural and urban areas. But then it is also important that children and young people meet professional art, and that meeting can convey the cultural school bag in a brilliant way. It is true that the productions of the cultural school bag will mainly meet students in school, which also helps to ensure that the objectives of the cultural school bag can best be met by professional artists. In 2007, the National Centre for Art and Culture in Training was established in Bodø. We believe that this centre can be an engine for a good interaction between the cultural school bag and the school's own learning goals for aesthetic subjects, where the students' own activity and their own experience - and the good combination of this - will be in focus. We're also pleased that high school students are now going to experience professional artistic productions through the cultural school system, and we've asked the Government to assess whether the kindergartens are going to experience the cultural school bag's offerings. It is important that both institutions and the free professional cultural life can offer productions to the cultural school system - not least productions that are regionally and locally anchored. We also believe that much of the exciting cultural work related to Kirka can produce good results for the cultural school bag. But we have underlined in our note that it is important to make sure that church-related productions take into account that we have students in school with different beliefs and different views of life. Culture School is an important player in the cultural work of children and young people. The professional creators and performers who are in the cultural schools must be clearly able to be providers in the cultural school bag, in line with other artists. But we are somewhat surprised that the opposition believes that priority should be given to increasing support for the cultural schools, given that these should produce for the cultural school bag. In this regard, we would like to remind you that under 15 pst. children and young people of the current age receive an offer in the cultural school. We believe it is right to give priority to more people getting a cultural school offer, rather than giving cultural schools funds earmarked for producing the cultural school bag - when there are many other institutions and actors that can do just that. The party strongly argues that it is important that 80 pst. of the means of transport to the cultural school system are distributed locally and in demand by the department's attitude to this. We are happy to see that St.meld. No 8 clearly shows that this ambition is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1296	As stated in the comments of the Progress Party in the suspension of this message, we do not agree that the cultural school bag works according to the intentions. We perceive the message so that experiencing professional artistic expressions is the most important thing for the students. This cannot be said to be in line with the intentions we set out when we negotiated this in connection with the proposal to change the key - which was adopted. Specially the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party should remember what we did that time -- it's not more than six years ago. The intention of the Progress Party with the proposal was that children and young people should have access to cultural experiences and have the opportunity to participate in cultural activities themselves through cooperation with different cultural institutions and artists and through the school, the cultural school and the voluntary laws and organisations, such as: choirs, corps and amateur theatre teams. These should thus have a significant boost through the resources of the cultural school bag. The above-mentioned lots concluded an agreement - of course to secure the economic foundation of the cultural school bag. But we now see, by various decisions taken by the government parties, that the existence of the cultural school bag has not been guaranteed. I am thinking, of course, that a new change to the key, which is now being proposed, will have dramatic consequences for the cultural school bag. In connection with this communication, we have noticed that the Stortinget has not received the evaluation report. This concerns the Progress Party, especially because it was clearly focused on these 160 million. kr should go to children and young people - not to subsidize professional cultural life, not to pay the cultural administrations of the counties and municipalities. These funds were clearly to go unabated in the cultural experiences of children and young people. In the case of voluntary teams and organisations, these are almost not mentioned in this Communication, despite the explicit emphasis in the premise of the agreement that was concluded that voluntary teams and organisations should have a significant share of the funding for the cultural school bag. There are counties who have solved the challenges of the cultural school bag in an excellent way, where participation of children and professional artists goes hand in hand. Unfortunately, this is not the case everywhere. In some places, the children are passive recipients of professional art, which, of course, gives children something, but which does not in the same way create the joy and creativity of them. I mentioned earlier in my post that these funds would go unabated to children and young people. This means that municipalities must take on the administrative and planning tasks associated with the scheme. Too many counties are responsible for this now, and so you do not always know what is going on in the different municipalities. For the Progress Party, it is important that the municipalities - and preferably the individual school - have the widest possible access to these resources. We therefore want pilot schemes to be put in place with inter-municipal cooperation. The Progress Party does not support the department's taking over the secretariat function of the cultural school bag. ABM development has had this function. We can see no reason why those who have now acquired both competence and knowledge of the different aspects of the cultural school system will no longer have the secretariat function. Those of us who have been in this committee for a while, remember how ABM development in the first few years of their life strove to find the way they were going. I - and the rest of the Advancement Party with me - think that it would be completely wrong if, after the struggle they have had, they should be deprived of this function. They're in very good competence. But this goes into the range of issues that the Council of State wants to add to its ministry, so that we get an even less free and even less independent cultural life. Then I'll take up the proposal that we have with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1322	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1325	The cultural school system is a great measure, which provides good experiences for each student, important tasks for Norwegian cultural life, broadens the foundation for learning and strengthens the interface between school and cultural life. The evaluation and hearings underlying the notification have been carried out after a relatively short period of time. Of course, the message needs to be read with it in mind. Although we have had a good start, it is a little way to go before the scheme is settled. I am pleased with the Department's signals to develop a further strategy for research and ongoing evaluation. The cultural school system has a high potential, and Norway is a diverse country where solutions can be many - in terms of organisation, and not least in terms of content development. The right is particularly concerned with school-cultural cooperation. Our starting point is that the offer of the cultural school bag must be well anchored in the education of the school. The performances shown shall not only be an offer of an ok hour of high entertainment value, but should be anchored towards teaching and thereby create a pedagogical added value. This may be a matter of syllabus relevance, or it may be a matter of knowledge and experience taken into account in a broader education perspective. This requires a good sense of ownership among teachers in each school. In many places this situation is also. Many contact teachers and interested people do a fine job to help make the best possible arrangements. Nevertheless, there is a potential for development here that should be made more of. In this context, the right considers that the organisation of the cultural school system should be closer to the individual school, i.e. that the municipalities themselves could take a greater part of the task. The experience of the large municipalities that do this is good. Small municipalities should also have the opportunity, for example, to add intercommunal cooperation projects. This promotes Right-wing proposals. Another demanding challenge is to create a quality-demanding system. There are no simple solutions or individual measures that alone will emerge. The quality will result from the existence of good offers and the demand for good offers. In this context, many people are a keyword. The criteria will also be subject to discussion and vary slightly depending on, for example, genre, local anchorage or educational relevance. Making this a discussion of professionalism is a derailment. I'll keep it pretty sure that it's all considering what's going to be produced, must be in a professional context. We can't add the list lower than that. So this is a question of accessing good performances. It's a more important issue. That's where the shoe prints first and foremost. This should include consideration of the framework conditions and opportunities for development, including: for the free field. The cultural school system already provides many and important tasks. The development of a broader complex free field is itself an important step in getting a sufficient number of ideas and in getting to the diversity that we need. Perhaps in this context, one should look at the criteria contained in other schemes, such as the requirement for innovation in the Norwegian Cultural Fund grant scheme - a scheme which, in my view, has a limited impact on the development and breadth of players in the free field. Another area is of course the school itself. Teacher training, including the continuing training of teachers, must actively incorporate the possibilities of the cultural school bag. It is important that quality production is sought, perhaps also that the school's own needs are formulated into the qualitative requirements that we will see develop gradually. Quality is not an exact size in this context. We're talking about quality that will relate to the reality and the everyday life we live in. There I believe that the cultural school bag sets a framework, which in itself is a quality criterion that it is natural to continue working on. I have noticed that in several higher education environments competence development in this area is working. I think it's important to follow up. First of all, our task is to create a meeting point between culture and school that makes our children get the best possible offer. And an optimal offer is about knowledge, professionalism, success security and many other leaderships. With this, I recommend the proposals on which the Right is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1346	The cultural school system must be able to be summarized as a success story. Although it's different how it works from state to state, we believe that this has been very positive -- for Culture-Norway and not least for the children who get to experience what's now happening around our schools. For us in SV, transfers to the cultural school bag were a prerequisite for us to participate in changing the key in the previous period. This helped to secure the cultural school bag the necessary funding needed by such a large cultural promise. However, the cultural school system is primarily a successful measure of cultural policy. There's several reasons for that. I would like to point out the main reasons why we in SV believe that the cultural school bag has become such a successful project. Through the cultural school system, children of school age receive a wide range of cultural experiences. The development of children is related to the living conditions and opportunities of parents in the labour market. Differences between economic, health and education and cultural participation are interrelated. In this context, the focus on the cultural school system is an important tool to ensure children's opportunities for varied cultural experiences at a professional level - no matter where they live and no matter what their background. The cultural school bag is the only professional cultural offer that reaches out to absolutely all children throughout the country, regardless of geography and background. It makes this measure unique. Last year, 167 million were used. kr of the typing materials of the cultural school bag. Most of the money in the cultural school bag is spent by the counties and municipalities to ensure that the management of the offer is as close as possible to the students involved. It is a pre-requisite on the part of Storting that the funds allocated are used for cultural activities and not for increased administration. The fact that it is the counties and municipalities that take care of the funds means that the cultural school bag is locally anchored and owned by the individual municipality and county municipality. This, of course, should primarily ensure a good offer for children, but it also makes the cultural school bag an important part of cultural policy throughout the country. Local and regional anchoring also makes sure that the cultural school bag becomes a sprawl between state tipping agents and local cultural resources, and that the cultural school bag is even greater than what emerges from the central allocations, not least in cooperation with the cultural life around the country and with the voluntary sector. The initiative on the cultural school bag is, in our opinion, a cultural promise that develops and professionalises the field of art and culture. When the cultural school bag produces professional art and cultural dissemination to 620,000 students, it also gives many artists the opportunity to reach a wider audience than through any other scheme. The cultural school bag helps to create a culture for children with a quality promise and a greater recognition. SV works to enable more artists to live from their artistic work, and among others. The cultural school bag has become an important job for many artists alongside this government's commitment to culture through the Cultural Promise. The Communication sets out to extend the cultural school system to upper secondary school students as well. This, in our opinion, is an important step towards leaving the cultural school bag to all children and young people - from kindergarten to high school. We are particularly concerned in our programme with children's and young people's right to experience and practice art and culture. By expanding the cultural school system, this offer will benefit even more children and young people. It's SV very pleased and happy. The next step now has to be a cultural nursery bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1363	In the view of the Centre Party, the cultural school has developed very positively. The evaluation and the listening round show this. Essentially, the hearing aids are happy with the facilities of the Cultural School. The evaluation and the hearing show that it is necessary to develop the interaction between the cultural and school sectors. It is necessary to develop some reporting systems that provide a more systematic review, providing a better overview of the supply around the country and making visible the potential for improvement. It is important to maintain the Storting's intention, that the money should go to production and dissemination, and not to administration. In this context, today's organisation is important. The county authorities have a coordinating role and thus the production and dissemination are anchored locally. It is important that we do not have too much national governance. The impressive work done around the country so far has shown that this is best managed locally. It is a natural development of the cultural school to expand it to include further schools. It is natural to make provision throughout the training cycle. The centre party is pleased that the care of the centre of witnesses is taken care of in connection with the extension. Knowledge centres should be key actors in the dissemination. One example is Jærmuseets Science Circus, which is a white center on wheels. In the last few years, science Circus has reached 15,000 school pupils every year - at their own schools. All municipalities in Rogaland and many in Agder counties have been visited - a good example of how dissemination can be decentralised. It is exciting and not a little impressive to record the extent and quality of the supply in the cultural school. The fact that approx. 620,000 schoolchildren run through the system and get to participate in and experience various artistic expressions, providing a good ballast for the individual, but also for the community and for Norway as a cultural nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1376	This is a matter of broad consensus, and not many are critical of the cultural school bag. We in the Left also see that the inequalities that exist around the country are pretty good, but we're a little skeptical that the evaluation might not have brought so much of what's good around. We think it is important to have an experience transfer, because there are also great differences in the cultural infrastructure around the country. It is clear that Oslo has a fairly large supply of finished productions that others do not have, which means that it has organized the cultural school bag in a different way. But it's important to transfer the knowledge you have between the states. I think there are two fundamental challenges for the cultural school bag as it is today. Point 1 - and the most important thing - is quality. There are people who walk around and think that you can give children poorer quality, because children are not so high-quality. They've probably never experienced culture with children. I sometimes think it's sad that adults think it's cute when children play wrong or can't repeat their lines -- for children are just as high-quality as adults, even when they're cultural mariners. What's a little daunting is what we learned during the hearing, that within the art education we have, very few people think of being competent in the field of art dissemination to children. The dissemination of art to children is also perceived in many of the art educations as somewhat worse than the dissemination of art to adults. Now the Minister of Culture has often stressed that art education is something he has nothing to do with, and that is not about the cultural promise. But I would nevertheless point out that getting quality in art dissemination also in art education is an important challenge in getting the cultural school bag to get better every single day. The second point I want to make, and as many people here have talked about, is cooperation with school and teaching skills and the ability to get a cooperation between school and the cultural school bag. Half of the teachers in the first to fourth stages who teach different arts subjects do not have competence in that subject. This means that, even if this is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, building up teaching skills in the arts and building up teachers who have a high level of competence in the disciplines they are going to have is very important in order to make the cultural school bag work. We must have art teachers, but also Norwegian teachers who are good at conveying the art in the subject in which they actually teach. It is then a natural transition to the fact that literary productions should also have been involved in and received means of production in the cultural school bag. I hope it's due to a small mistake that it's not here -- and maybe it's a challenge for the government, when they're going to evaluate a language message, to insert that communicating literature to children is also an important part of the cultural school bag. Finally, I just want to include some other points. It is important that children are not only taught to be consumers of culture but also to be participants. The system of letting children be cultural hosts we see in many places. But we have to create a system where we not only teach kids to sit and watch theater, but they also understand how to express themselves artistically. We will also point out that using the cultural school is not a rule that fits everywhere, cf. the arguments put forward by the representative Knutsen. For example, in the left-hand municipality of West Slider, where one hundred percent of the kids are in the cultural school, it may be more logical to view it as a partner to develop the cultural school bag than it might be in other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1392	This debate is probably a good confirmation of the old trend that the great success stories have many fathers, while the failures tend to be orphans. But the truth is that the cultural school bag had a relatively long birth. It originally started with local initiative, especially Sandefjord was a municipality in the past. But at national level, the then Minister of Culture Ellen Horn and the then Minister of Education, signed, began working together on a cultural school bag. After the government change in 2001, the few funds we had invested in it were reduced. But then the big breakthrough came when we made a change in the key, against the votes of the then government parties here in the hall. It is the great promise that everyone is happy for now, which has actually laid the foundation for the flowering of the cultural school bag around the country. It is good to see that there is now a broad consensus that the cultural school bag has come to stay and that it should be continued. When children experience high-quality art and culture, we train future audiences. Cultural experiences challenge us, turn thoughts and feelings, give us joys and thoughts and reflections. Through the cultural school system, we ensure that all children, whether poor or rich, live in the north or south, experience many different artistic expressions through school time. The cultural school bag may be the most important part of our cultural policy for children and young people. The scheme shall contribute to the experience, familiarise and develop understanding of professional artistic and cultural expressions of all kinds at school. For the treatment of St.meld. No 38 for 2002–03, the Stortinget Government asked the Government to carry out an evaluation of the cultural school system and submit it to the Stortinget. The evaluation mission was assigned to NIFU STEP, which delivered its evaluation report in September 2006. The new communication on the cultural school bag shows both the results of the evaluation and the subsequent consultation round. The report and the answers show that the cultural school system is a popular system, which creates a lot of enthusiasm, although there is also the potential to make it work even better. A majority of the hearing bodies are pleased that the School Charter facilitates local anchoring, ownership and influence. The consultation round clearly shows that the cultural school system is a system that is greatly appreciated and that actors want little change. In the Communication, we are committed to clarify the objectives, principles and work-sharing between the cultural sector and the training sector. We say that there is a need for a better reporting system, more skills development and more research, and not least we show how important it is to get well anchored in school. I'm glad the committee joins in this. It is true, as the opposition writes in a note, that this message is not a result of the Cultural Lift, it is a result of Storting's order. On the other hand, the most important measure in the Communication is a result of the cultural promise - that we can now phase out the food from the cultural school bag that was used in its time for central cultural policy activities, and release the money to extend the school bag to secondary schools. 180 000 students are now included in the scheme. The county council, which is responsible for secondary education, shall also be responsible for bringing the extension into place. To clarify it, I'm a little uncertain as to why it's a one-party remark, but the comment to the Right that money from the arrangement should not go to the administration, is firm. It's written in the message, and there we're a hundred percent in agreement. The county must itself bear the administrative costs. The money they receive from toys must go to cultural and artistic activity. Such an extension of the scheme requires resources. That is why, through a phase-out period, we will provide state budgets for the central arrangements. It's not right, as it's said here, that changing the key to compensation schemes goes against the cultural school bag. Those funds are being maintained. In addition to the extension of the scheme, the Communication also proposes a number of other improvements. In the School Course, art is to be of high quality, and therefore we want it to be within every artistic and cultural expression a national art and cultural actor who can coordinate a professional network and give professional advice to the field. Together with the Ministry of Knowledge, we will also strengthen coordination between the cultural sector and the training sector at national and local level. But it is important to stress that this is not in order to meet the aesthetic goals of the curriculum, they stand firm, this is in order to give children and young people an extra solid art and cultural offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1414	I think the Council of State needs to help me figure something out. He said in his post that the central arrangements should be terminated, so that 180,000 high school students could receive this offer. The message also says that 80 pst. of the resources of the cultural school system have gone directly to the municipalities or to local action. Let's talk about that 20 pst. of the funds now going to 180 000 students? I don't fully appreciate where this money really comes from, and who they're going at the expense of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1421	That's absolutely right. If Woldseth was not the case rapporteur, she was at least very central in the discussion we had at the time the previous government suggested that a share of the school allowance could be used for key actions. The goal of the government at the time was to use even more of the school seat for key actions. Fortunately, in Stortinget we had limited it. Now we phase it out completely, so that this is covered by the state budget, and then all the games that come to the cultural school bag can go unabated to activity locally. Again, I have to repeat: it should not be covered by the administration; this should be the local self-financing. The measures taken here shall cover an offer also to secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1426	I am pleased with the Council of State's emphasis on the importance of cooperation with the school and local anchoring. In many models around the country, we see how the county councils organize themselves a little differently at that point. We do also have good experiences in which the large municipalities control this by themselves. My question is: could the Council of State consider taking stock of some pilot projects aimed at a little smaller municipalities as well, perhaps smaller municipalities in inter-municipal cooperation, where it could take greater responsibility for the dissemination through the School Class, and then build up the contents of the School Class in its areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1433	I think you have to figure this out locally. I think a lot of municipalities are a little too small to deal with this, and I think the grip we did when we dealt with this, namely let the county council administer it, has worked well. We know that one of the big drawdowns in the cultural school bag is about who's going to sit in the driver's seat. Should it be cultural life, artists, institutions that deliver the art on their premises, or should it be the school that orders to do so, perhaps based on its curriculum and activity? The system we have had now has actually led to some sort of balance in this, where it is the county council - which is neither responsible for primary school nor directly responsible for the various cultural activities - that has managed it, and then you have a good balance. If you get a lot of small municipalities that handle it, you can risk it becoming very ‘schoolic’. I want to avoid that it is the school's needs that should govern the cultural school system unilaterally, but if several municipalities join together, that could be an opportunity. But trying and developing it, I think, must be done locally, not as the initiative of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1440	I'm thinking when the first lessons of the cultural school came. I think they were 3 million. kr. Obviously, it's evolved formidablely in relation to what it once started that. When it came to changing the key, what Trond Giske was up to when he was in opposition, there were no changes he proposed when he was the Council of State, because it would be much more demanding to find out what was going on when he was Minister of Research versus when he was in opposition, where the opposition party was involved in pushing forward the change of the key. We see that overall cultural life has resulted in much more resources. What I was wondering, since the Council of State was concerned that it was a remark they could well have made, was whether there were any other comments they could have made. For the opposition party, it underlines and believes that the extension of the secondary school should not lead to less secure funding of the central schemes, and that the central schemes should be strengthened, so that the output of the basic school does not suffer as a result of the extension of the scheme to the continuing school. When it comes to funding, how will one ensure that it is passed on?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1451	One of the ways we guarantee it is in implementing the game reform, which means that Norwegian Typing gets more revenue to distribute for the different purposes. It suggests that the cultural school bag in primary school should still have 122 million. kr, as at today. And then the funds released from the central measures and the science centres, which are gradually taken over by the State budget, are to be released to high school, i.e. approx. Forty-five million. kr to secondary school. In relation to the number of students, I think it's pretty exactly proportional-- 180,000 students in high school and about three times as many in primary school, so per. student becomes the effort about the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1456	Now we heard both the head of the committee, the representative of Molvær Grimstad, and the Council of State boasted that there has been a huge increase in the appropriations for the cultural school bag. Now I get to be part of this showcasing choir and boasting of us, since it was we who promoted the proposal. - Enough about it. The council has repeatedly pointed out that this money should not go to the administration, either in the county or in the municipality. Now we know that in some states, there are actually six people employed to manage the cultural school system, and similarly in some large municipalities. So I'm going to ask, what is the Council of State going to do to get rid of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1463	The number of individual municipalities or counties employed in their cultural department, education department or department is a local responsibility. What we're responsible for is that the money you get from the games to the cultural school bag is not going to pay the salary to the people you hire in the administration. That money is going to go out to the different activities. It is very clear in the message as well. It even says that there are, for example, performs tests on which the representative Thommes was concerned, namely that the municipalities are responsible for this, the same rule applies. The administrative costs must be borne by the municipality. It is underlined in the message. And just so it's not a misunderstanding, because this is a minority comment from the committee: this applies, at least from the message's side, and I don't interpret the setting in such a way that you disagree with it. Then the committee had to say specifically that it disagreed, even though it is a minority comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1468	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1474	Only a brief note on the issues related to administrative expenses and the county. I am pleased that the Council of State makes it clear that the Ministry is aware of what has been a premise all the way, namely that the county council's contribution is to administer the scheme. When we took this up as a comment, there's no insinuation in it that the government would mean anything else, or any criticism. But on a trip around the country and in meeting with some county councils, it's probably once again an impression on some occasions that makes me think it would be timely that you pay attention to it, and that you might sometimes ask for it and make it clear from the department that it's the premise. So there's a question of boasting both paternity and motherhood in this context. There I would say, after the Council of State inception, that it could be in the air that the members of the Bondevik II government were against this system. So we've never been. This scheme was also increased by Valgerd Hvarstad Haugland's side, although there were funds available until the change in the key came, following the proposals of the Progress Party. So right is going to be right: the big promise came with the change in the key. We think that's great, all men! There was more concern when it came to research than resistance to school bags that made us have a different place at the time. But I think we can all take our share of the glory, at least our share of the desire for the cultural school bag to come to and actually grow and become what we can enjoy today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1483	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1499	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to repeat chord changes of up to three lines after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines after contributions from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1508	I think I would like to start by thanking the proposers for a very good document No. Eight proposals, which go straight into the nerve of some of the big issues we have in front of us in this area. I don't have time to make a broad presentation when there are so many minority proposals, so I hope you'll be able to present your proposals. 2006 figures show that 18 pst. of the measures taken by children in the field of child protection concern the taking-over of care. 83 pst. of children’s harbours in foster homes. That means that this is a pretty big and important part of our care. What strikes me when you look at the history of helping children in vulnerable situations is that all generations have made their mistakes that you don't understand why you didn't see when you were in the situation. I have thought many times: what is happening wrong today that we do not see, but that we should have seen? Something that worries me as to whether we can see it, concerns the supervision we have for all the 83 percent of the children who are being taken care of - the supervision of foster homes. There are very large deficiencies related to this, and many of those figures we got on the table during the examination of this matter. There is also some role clarification that is needed. I was told in the previous question hour that there was a booklet about this from the department, but I think it takes a lot of focus and training to serve as a good supervision of foster homes. It's one of the major challenges we're facing in this area. We also think it is important to remove the distinction between public and private foster homes. It is important to look at the level of care given, not at the recruitment basis. So it is that many of the foster parents who think they are doing a good job for the community, feel that the community is punishing them by losing their rights to both health care and retirement. We in the Left do not want a system where you have full-time foster parents in every possible case. But it has to be possible to create a system in the middle that makes them feel that they have social protection in relation to social rights, sail if they don't have this as a job they're employed in, but actually participate in a hard job for children to have a good upbringing. It is also important that these foster parents then receive good guidance and relief, which allows them to do the job they do. So for after-sales protection. The right has put in a separate proposal, but the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are united on a statutory right to post-protection. We see today that this is a group that manages poorly in terms of education, work, housing, income, yes, many of the important factors. We see that there are very different practices from municipality to municipality, and often employees say that it is an economic assessment more than an assessment of individual young people. Post-mortem protection may sound quite boring and technical, and it may also be something you actually don't want for a while, and then all of a sudden you want it again. Therefore, it is important to have a withdrawal period, and it is important to have a contact person, because this is quite complex. This sometimes means having some adults to disagree with. This means sometimes to be able to take a debate on something where you really have decided, but needs some resistance and counter-arguments to the important choices in life. We who have been so lucky to have had our biological parents around us through all the important choices in life, see that it is not that their participation ceases when we become 18. It is both a matter of having someone come home and lie on the sofa at home, and having someone who can take the laundry when it has taken a little upper hand on the furniture. I am 38 years old, and I actually got a large portion of princess cake from my mother when I was at home last. All these parts of the support apparatus that are around you that may not seem, and which may not be the best part of municipal legislation, are about you having some adults responsible for you, sail if you are a seagoing person and ready for your choices. A lot of people get in financial trouble because they make some kind of loss in their youth that they don't get help getting out of. Making the good systems that make you have the right to choose wrong, but then get a new chance, is about having safe adults around you who are safe on their role. Therefore, working with post-protection is an important part of this. I'm dealing with the proposals that the Left has with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1525	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1530	The left enters the setting to legislate the right to post-protection for the 18-23 age group, they do so together with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. This is not a new debate. This was discussed as early as 1992 and at the latest in 2003 in connection with St.meld. No 40 for 2001–02, on the protection of children and young people, presented by the Bondevik II Government. So all of these times it's been concluded that there's a lot of serious reasons against the law. In particular, it is considered that it is difficult to define the situation to trigger the right, that it is difficult to say what such a right should consist of, and that it is unnatural to define something as a right if it is not clear that the rightholder, i.e. the child, sees it as a good thing. So the left is proposing to legislate the after-care system, but they're not proposing to legislate for children under 18 years of age. In such a context, is it not unnatural to give municipalities a greater commitment to those who are authoritative than to those who are under 18 and are minors?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1537	With all due respect, these are objections made by lawyers and not by people who relate to the everyday lives of these kids. This is a legal objection. We had a long debate in the Left before we ended up with the programming we did. Our starting point is that when you have a care system that is so much based on foster parents, making an after-care system is not a big job for these foster parents. Creating opportunities for compensation for foster parents for the job also needs to be able to do so. I understand that there are legal objections. It is not that you have the right to child protection services today, but it is still a legal view of people that all children who are ill-treated should have the right to, for example: a care assumption. I think this is where the government should be based on the kids and not on the paragraphs, and then we'll have to make the paragraphs after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1546	I allow myself to take a follow-up reply to the representative Skei Grande. It is very interesting to see that when the Left Sea put in government, not later than three years ago, their government opposed such a proposal. We know that after the three current government parties took over, the number of young people entitled to poster protection has doubled. There are many more people today who get after protection than it was under the Bondevik II government. I wonder, what has changed since we got a new government? Is it just that we've got a new government, or has the Left got a new policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1555	The Labour Party has largely ruled this country after the war. That doesn't mean I want to accuse them that they haven't come up with all the good ideas they come up with before. It is such that the left actually fixed this, after a long batch process, in the previous bulk selection program. Then we decided that this would be one of the battle cases. We don't want to guarantee that we won't get good ideas in the future too. I would like to invite the Workers' Party to participate in developing such good ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1562	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1565	There are important themes that proposers address in this Document No. The 8th proposal. It's natural, and it's desirable, that child protection is discussed, because it's important choices that need to be made in order to provide the best possible help to the most vulnerable among us, children and young people living in families with different and often complex problems that you can't handle on your own. Child protection needs a wide range of measures, tailored to the needs of individual children. These may include home-based interventions, community action, shelters, foster homes and various institutions. In this picture, foster homes are central. There is an explicit policy from the Government and the red-green majority that we want to strengthen foster home services. This is also in line with child protection recommendations, and with the policies put forward by the previous government. We need more foster homes that can accommodate children of different ages and needs, and the ministry is working to strengthen foster homes by laying a good professional and financial framework for the important work that foster parents do. Of course, we still need institutions in the field of child protection. These include: provide emergency accommodation; they shall be for children who need additional follow-up before they are to be in foster homes and may be in residence for children for a shorter period or in a waiting phase. It is particularly important that we have a wide range of measures for young people who are under the care of child protection, ranging from foster homes and shelters to collectives or other forms of housing. Proposals point to the importance of good supervision of foster homes. We are concerned that some children in foster homes do not have supervisors, while we need to see that this is also about children in short-term placements, which therefore may not have the same need for supervision. It is important to focus on good training, guidance and recruitment of supervisors and that good reporting practices exist for municipalities, both on the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the supervisory task. We agree that the supervisor should be independent and maritime in relation to municipal child protection and that close and sound trust between the supervisor and the child is necessary. However, we do not agree with the proposers that the County should assume responsibility for the supervisors. We believe that the municipalities can do the best, and we also believe that inter-municipal cooperation in the field of child protection, including the role of supervision, can be recommended. More and more of those who have been under the care of child protection are in fact being protected after the age of 18 years, 85 pst. of those who reached the age of 18 in the last half of 2007. That is gratifying, because these young people are often more vulnerable than many others when they as young adults are about to start a new phase in life. We do not believe that the law on the right to follow-up protection after the age of 18 is the way to go, when the Children's Protection Act is generally not a law on rights. What we're doing is we're going to impose a duty of justification if we don't want to give a youth protection. In other words, after-shave protection shall be the usual when the youth wants it. It should also be allowed to come back and ask for help by sea if you have first refused to do so, and everyone should be given good information about the right to complain about a decision. The government has increased the funding for national child protection by over 700 million. kr. Our policy is that these appropriations should go as far as possible to those children and young people who need help, and to those who give their children the close daily care and therefore need a good framework for their work. This means that we want to turn child protection measures from private commercial actors to public actions and actions by NPISHs and actors. This is a transition that is to be phased in over time, so that strengthening of child protection measures under the direction of public and non-profit actors is parallel to the phase-out of agreements with private commercial operators. In this context, bufferates in the regions still have the possibility to make agreements with commercial operators if this offer is considered to be good and in line with the need. On the basis of international legislation, all agreements with commercial operators must be based on the principle of tendering, and I think it is good that the Ministry will now carry out an assessment of the actors we have in the field of child protection, in view of the definition of non-profit-making versus commercial activities. In January of this year, 575 foster homes were prepared on a national basis, while 116 children were waiting for a place. So we have a large number of foster homes, but the challenge is to find the right supply for the child in question. In this context, many factors need to be addressed, such as the distance between home and foster home, the age of the child and the different needs of the child. All efforts and actions taken must have an overall objective: to create good and safe conditions for the growth of children and young people who have parents or other adults who, for various reasons, do not have the power to give them this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1597	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1600	I was not quite sure if I thought my own ears were in place, when the representative Knutsen said, as I got it, that some of the children are in short stay and therefore do not need supervision. Is it true that the government parties and the representative Knutsen believe that children living in foster homes for short stays do not need supervision? Is it true that the representative Knutsen believes that because it's a short stay, things can't happen that shouldn't happen to children, in a foster home?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1607	All children need supervision and the various institutions are also subject to supervision. It is true that if you have short-term placements and kids are going to move on quite quickly, they may not come under the supervision of which we have statistics. That's why there was an explanation from me about some of these numbers when it came to supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1614	The representative Knutsen made a number that it was important to phase out the private actors from child protection. At the same time, she said quite shortly afterwards that it was important to find the right offers, and that some of the problem now was to coordinate the places you had, in relation to which offers were requested. Now we also know that in the private sector there is a supply that is requested. But it is not purchased, with the result that the queues are growing. Thus, strong signals are sent that some of the offer should be phased out before the state itself has the right offer to put in place. My question to the representative Knutsen is: Does it not appear then that it is more important to phase out some of the offer than to give the children a good offer and a properly adapted offer? Isn't this to put ideology in front of the children?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1623	I don't think the representative Thommessen's description of the situation is quite correct. Buffetat in all regions has the opportunity to purchase measures from both private commercial operators and others that are seen to have an offer in line with the need. So in the case of foster homes, we have over 7,000 publicly recruited foster homes. We have a little under 200 foster homes recruited by private commercial operators. These are, I know, in use, and I have full confidence that Buffetat will make the purchases and make the contracts they need, in relation to the offer they will make.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1628	We've had a visit from a former child protection child at Stortinget. We've listened to their concerns as a child protection child, and the need for follow-up with after-care. In the past, the Christian People's Party has said that one should have the possibility of post-protection for up to 23 years, and propose it. So the discussion is going to be: is this going to be a right or not? There is a clear signal coming from some children's protection. We know that some places this works very well, but there are places where it doesn't work well. We know that many of these have a traumatic background. Shouldn't the Labour Party and the Government be involved in securing these vulnerable and postponing the children, instead of saying that there are so many and so many who are being protected, but we know that there are places where it doesn't work well enough? Shouldn't there be good enough reason to change the code?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1633	As the representative Gjul said instead, the previous government did not legislate for the protection of children over the age of 18 years. I'm very happy that the use of post-protection has increased considerably in recent years. Actually, now we get 85 pst. of young people who reached the age of 18 in the last half of last year, aftercare. What we are doing now is imposing a duty of justification if we do not follow up with the protection of individual young people. So the usual thing is to give back protection. Young people should also be able to come back if they change their mind and still want to be protected afterwards. The government has also said that it will intensify the local authorities' obligation to inform young people about the right to appeal if they are denied a wish to follow-up. We think these measures will help to make that 100 pst. by those who wish to be protected may have it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1638	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1641	It is commendable that the proposers promote this proposal for a representative. Nevertheless, I find it strange that nothing was done about this issue when the Christian People's Party was in government. Part of this proposal was then promoted by SV, without the Christian People's Party joining the case. You choose to do it now, that's good, and then you get to say welcome after. Enough about that. Many children are waiting to be placed in foster homes or in an institution. Many of these are voluntary placements. The Progress Party has long said that institutions should not be used, but that they should be used close to families as foster homes. Now that the government has chosen to turn child protection policy from institutions to foster homes, we think it's great. But the government's argument is far from great. The reason for the rotation is economic. What kind of people are what makes the economy go ahead of children's growing-up conditions? We don't want that, and that's not what was behind our proposals earlier. We are of the opinion that children are better off at close family or foster home. What worries us is that the rotation has occurred without any special pre-work in it. There is not enough foster home in Norway. And it actually cuts my heart when I read advertisements in the newspaper about children applying for foster homes. What kind of recruitment is that? It must not be cut down to keep the children standing without any offer, but it must go and wait for a month's placement. There is a reason that children need foster homes, and that means that some children have to suffer unnecessarily for a long time, because there is no offer for them. This is not sustainable and must clearly break the Children's Convention. So to the post-protection. Very many of the children and young people who have lived in foster homes for a longer period have nothing else to call home than where they actually spent the last few years before they were 18. Our children can always come home to the nursery if things are going to be difficult and the world is not quite to deal with -- but not these children. It is therefore very important that they receive an offer of after-care, and that a plan for the future be put together with the youth. Over the years, too many people have only been referred to the social office. There is no good solution to motivate disadvantaged young people to get an education or a job. These are young people who need extra support even after they reach the age of 18. There is no magic limit when you become authoritative. You do not wake up that day and know that from today I can do everything on my own. That's not the way the world is. For these young people, there may be even greater uncertainty than for their peers. So teaching them how to both handle money and live and make a plan with them for education or work should be a matter of course. It was claimed that most people are offered post-protection, but I know about more people who have not received it. It almost looks like the 15 pst. who have not been offered post protection, call Stortinget. We have had a significant pressure from young people that has therefore been referred directly to the social office at the age of 18. Finally, I would like to say a few words about child protection. The Progress Party has proposed a number of times to establish free and independent child protection supervision to prevent the state from looking at itself in the cards or the municipalities from doing the same. There'll be a little bit of a dent and oat sack over there. For the Progress Party, legal certainty for children is the most important thing. We know that today there are a large number of children that the public has taken care of, completely unsupervised. The Progress Party does not think this is acceptable, and it is against this background that we are promoting our proposal for free and independent child protection supervision. I would like to take up with this the proposals No. 4, 5 and 8, which is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1662	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1667	The Party of Progress and the Right stands together in a note on post-protection. I believe that this comment points to some of the issues here, that these are legitimate people who are to be taken into consideration for their own benefit. Children shall now be heard, including in child protection matters, from the age of seven. One points to a problem that must be very relevant to both the Progress Party and the Right, which is concerned with the individual's ability to determine his or her own life. What they say is: ‘who is required to comply with this after-sales protection, and what shall happen in cases where the obligation to follow up child-restraint children conflicts with the wishes of the child-restraint children and thus the right of authorized persons to decide on their own lives.’;» [[...]] I'll ask the representative to elaborate on how to go in, if a person over 18 in this country actually says no, I don't want this post-protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1678	That's what we're asking for. But what at least is our intention with this proposal is to drag the youth with us, and not to create a post-protection that is not adapted to the individual. That's what you want to ask the government to investigate. I also think that an action plan for further education and future life should be drawn up before the child reaches the age of 18, so that they actually know that they have something to do with when they are 18 years old. But, of course, the youth should be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1685	In the extension of the question from the representative, Hansen, I would like to ask a question relating to the law of the right to follow-up protection, because it is clear in comments in the vote that the Progress Party is to legislate for the right to follow-up protection here and now, but that they are skeptical and have many good counter-representations, which are expressed both in the form of proposals and in comments. They say, among other things: that ‘is a complex and complex matter which should be investigated’. It is followed up with good and critical objections that argue that this may not be the best solution to ensure a good supply to people between 18 and 23 years of age. My question is therefore whether it is such that the Progress Party is in order to legislate post-protection, or whether they are against legal post-protection, or whether they are a little too and a little counter, depending on what is at any time the most convenient and popular.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1692	There is no hard question to answer. We have primary and subsidiary objectives. First of all, we want to legitimize the post-protection system. But we have a majority government, and we know that this is being judged north and down. Then we hoped that by going into the Right's original proposal for an assessment of this, we would at least be able to get one step further on the way. Unfortunately, however, it does not seem that the Government is at all willing to assess or introduce the right to post-protection for young people between 18 and 23 years of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1699	The representative says he should be involved in deciding about his own life. The setting is that child protection must provide a child-care professional justification for a refusal of protection. It is also such that the rejection can be appealed to the County. The county can go in and say that this is not right. This child shall have an after-care system. 85 pst. is being protected by a posterity today. It also has to be stated that if you actually say no now, you can come back, and we're going to review this. Does the representative not believe that this is done in what is here? And why would you give this group a stronger legal protection than those under the age of 18?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1704	This question I was actually hoping to get. We don't give those who are over 18 more rights than those that are below. I am absolutely sure that the representative Hansen knows that the Children's Convention is in front of Norwegian law, and that the Children's Convention guarantees the rights of those under 18 years of age. This Convention shall not apply to young people between 18 and 23 years of age. We're trying to make sure that those young people between the ages of 18 and 23 will also get an offer, as well as the 15 pst. which Mr Hansen is talking about. Why have they not received any offers? Why don't they have any after protection? I can't imagine a youth who is 18 years old, who couldn't imagine being offered post-protection. I think a lot of this goes on the economic situation the municipality is in. As we know, different measures are used in municipalities. The fact that post-employment protection, which is not a compulsory benefit for young people between 18 and 23 years of age, can be a balancing item is not difficult to imagine.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1713	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1716	All children have the right to a customised offer and good care. The needs are different, the offers must be varied and varied. Open child protection with a diversity of high-quality offers and at a fair price is the right starting point of the child protection policy. Unfortunately, the government seems to have as its starting point a unified state profile at the lowest possible price and little transparency around the offers. The foster homes bear something unique in themselves: the understanding of the family's importance as a basic unit in society, the desire to stand up for others and contribute to what one has to offer as a family, and by doing so give the children of others a better start in life. This tells of a warmer society based on the social responsibility of individuals. The professionalisation of foster homes can help to weaken the motivations of foster parents when they open their homes. When requirements for regulated working conditions, specific competence requirements and requirements for compensation for loads that may arise become a major concern in the foster home sector, foster family will be regarded as a normal working relationship. This job can never be. It's not a job you do in line with other work. That being said, we see in the Right that more and more foster homes have children with the need for extra measures and follow-up. The right therefore considers that where conditions and conditions are laid down for foster parents in the foster home agreement or in cooperation with the childcare service, which make them unable to enter or have to leave the labour market, it would be reasonable for foster parents to receive compensation in the form of occupational retirement provision and entitlement to other benefits. A contractual right to a public service pension and a health insurance scheme need a more detailed investigation before adapting such a contract for foster homes. The right is therefore promoting proposals to this effect. It is stated policies from the Government that foster homes are better and cheaper than institutions. On the right, it shares the view that family and family-like homes are a good care framework for many child-restraints. However, the right is concerned with the stability of children and adults with understanding and understanding of the challenges of child-restraint children. When we see children who are still on the move between different foster homes, and who are constantly filling up the suitcase with new defeats and failed attempts to start a new life, there is reason to stop. Children and young people with psychiatry, drug use and crime challenges that the country believes can be placed in foster homes must be secured home with a highly developed intervention system around them - reinforced foster homes. These are established both privately and under state control. Several private actors have specialised their activities around just such family homes, where the home is part of the action chain that many private actors have. Good support schemes such as day-to-day continuous counselling services, fixed-off provision for the child at a fixed location with well-known adults and good professional follow-up in the form of guidance and training make these homes suitable for realising the Government's policy of turning from institution to foster home. The 2007 foster home price was just allocated to such an operator. It's a shame the government won't use these offers--the children had earned it. If the price is right in relation to the quality that is delivered, it's hair-driving that the government is not willing to pay for a child's custom offer of high quality, but rather puts them in line for a cheaper, public foster home. Even more strangely, when the argument is that private foster homes are not adapted to queue children, and therefore will not be used, when private actors, via their overall response apparatus, precisely adapt their offerings to the needs of their children. No, here's the ideology and the economy that governs -- not the best of children. With this I take up proposal No. 10, from the right. In addition, we are the co-sponsor for proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox That's wrong. We shall not be included in proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1739	The representative Olemic Thommess has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1744	There is no doubt that the Right and Government parties disagree as to whether the protection of children is an arena to be the subject of commercialisation and market adaptation. The representative Thommessen said in the questionnaire last week that they've cleaned up the child protection dividend party. I assume he refers to the tender law that followed the state reform of child protection. My question is this: If we come into a situation where we have a significant feature of private, commercial operators and at the same time the seller's market, could the representative Thommess think of taking any further action to make sure that the money allocated to child protection does not end up as dividends in private pockets?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1753	The state or municipalities are buyers of this offer - the public is the only buyer. It is a gigantic actor who has the bay and both ends in terms of pricing and the conditions on which you want to base the purchase of these offers. It should just be lacking that the state, as a professional actor, is not able to deal with a situation that makes us not getting cowboys in this industry. I'd like to admit that there have been some cowboys in the past. I think you should look a long time to find them today. On the contrary, we see that there has been a pressure on price that is quite dramatic. I would like to know what the corresponding public offer costs. I'm pretty sure there's much more to it. If you look at the price pressure that now makes that e.g. A book collective in Hallingdal is being laid down, I think you'll see that here's an economic race that makes the kids pay. It's not profit that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1760	The representative Thommessen of the Right says that it is ideology and the economy that governs child protection during this reign. I want to send that ball back. We've now traveled around -- we've been sitting on this committee in the last two great times both -- and we've been out there for almost seven years. In the last period, the then government's ideology and economic policy were to starve the municipalities. What we were told about every place we were was that the threshold for child protection measures was much higher. It was the economy that directed the measures, not the needs of children. Does the representative Thommess see any correlation between moving from foster home to foster home, and perhaps because of a poor community economy, having intervened late and not taking preventive measures? We know that if you're going to succeed in a foster home, you have to do it early. It shows all the research.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1768	Of course, I fully agree that you should get into a process early, and that it is important. Of course, I also agree that there is a need to have a certain economy to make a good offer. But I think it's a derailment to refer to the general questions about the local economy in the last period in relation to the very fragile situation that we're up against now. It is the state child protection that is primarily in focus, the state child protection, which is quite limited in relation to the total. I think the government is using rather daunting numbers. Because sometimes you're using numbers from local government and sometimes numbers from the state. We see that there is a need to clean up the halls. There's an economic management problem in Bufetat, and we see that Bufetat is running a hard drive down the system, where the price is a reason. We see that in the instructions, the price is the absolute reason. It tells me that the price is set in front of the children. The fact that the economy is now ahead of the children, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1777	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1780	This has been a blow in the debates: Why did they not do anything more when they were in government? Why did they vote against our proposals, as they were now in government, when they were in opposition? Sometimes I wonder how long one should right this in the debates. This government now has its seat for almost three years and has the ability to implement a lot of things. The parties that were in opposition, and which are now in government, have voted against many good proposals in the Stortinget. That's how we can keep arguing back and forth, but I'm actually not so much interested in it, because there's certainly things we could have done better when we were in government, and there's certainly things today that this government could have done better. I'm busy with the problems for the most vulnerable children. What can we do together to make them feel better than they do today? What kind of framework conditions is it important to do something about? We know that many foster parents are struggling with the lack of social rights, despite the fact that they are key people in child protection work and carry out very important tasks for society. It is important that the state facilitates good foster homes, so that the foster children get the best possible breeding conditions. The Christian People's Party of my foster home work must be strengthened by improving foster parents' framework conditions. That is why I had hoped that the government party would be involved and ensure this through the proposal we are discussing today. We know that there's a party that has suggested it before, and now we have the opportunity to realize it. The Christian People's Party proposes to strengthen foster parents by giving all foster parents who are out of regular work, entitlement to sickness and occupational retirement, regardless of whether they are state or municipal foster homes. The Christian People's Party also proposes that all foster parents should be guaranteed good, professional guidance and adequate facilities for unloading. ‘Foster home service in Akershus - Helgerud resource centre for foster homes’ provides systematic guidance for foster parents, including through day-to-day care. This offer is well received by both foster parents and caregivers in municipal child protection. This is a system that could have been usefully implemented in several places. Knut Onion has written master tasks about which factors make some foster homes stable over time. He points out that many foster parents have a very demanding everyday life and therefore feel a strong need to download for periods. Some have downloads in the form of visiting homes, others have other kinds of downloads, such as support contacts or homework. Lesson help can be an important form of download, perhaps especially where the relationship between foster parents and foster children is conflicted. The lie points to the fact that in some cases child protection should have a ready download already when the child moves into the foster home. Figures from the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality show that 918 out of 6,549 children in foster homes in the second half of 2007 lack supervisors. Supervisors shall visit the children at least four times a year and report to municipal child protection. When foster children do not have supervisors, the children’s legal security is at risk. We propose that the responsibility for the supervision of foster homes be transferred to County in the same way as the supervision of institutions and municipalities. This will increase the independence of the supervisory authority from the municipal child protection service. In this context, the state must provide additional resources and competences in order to be able to supervise foster homes. The Christian People's Party also proposes that a person should review the salaries of supervisors with a view to smoothing out the differences between municipalities and making it easier to recruit supervisors. Children’s protection is often more likely to need a safe base than those who have had a stable growth with safe and close relationships and environments. Many people experience being thrown out into a reality they're not offered to. That's why many people are struggling with different problems after they reach the age of 18, the so-called failure phase. The Christian People's Party proposes to legislate the right to child-restraint protection for all children until they reach the age of 23 in order to provide a better start to child-restraint care for young people. Unfortunately, our proposals are not supported by the government parties in spite of the fact that they have many comments that go in the right direction. We hope that the Government will retain the intention of the proposal when they are going to review the entire foster home area and revise the fosterheim agreement. It will strengthen the foster home work in time to come, and I think it's great that the committee has had a broad and strong commitment in this field. I hope it will last, because the matter is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1808	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1811	In the previous period, the then state councillor Laila Davøy and the Christian People's Party went against the law of the right to post-war protection. The Christian People's Party had good arguments for that. The representative Molvær Grimstad asked not to be criticized for the Christian People's Party thinking one thing in position and something else in opposition, so I'm not going to do that. But I'm going to ask questions about the arguments that the Christian People's Party and the Christian Party used at the time: Is not the law of post-protection a good idea, or are the arguments today so bad that the Christian People's Party has found reason to change its position?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1818	I thank you for the question. When we suggested for quite a few years that one should have the possibility of post-protection, it was something that the Christian People's Party was involved in taking the initiative. That was very good. We didn't go in there for it to be a legal right. Now we've had experience. This has been a while. Several have received post-protection. The background for having changed our position is that we have listened to those who should have enjoyed this. Fortunately, many have had it. But we've also got stories that say this isn't good enough. It was now said that if a person undoes, he should be able to re-open the Children's Security Book. Some places are practiced like this. Other places are not practiced like this. We went a step in the right direction. We have listened to the experience that one has gained so far, and thus went further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1825	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1828	The proposers point to the challenges we have in recruiting enough and maintaining good foster homes. They indicate that many foster parents are struggling with a lack of social rights. In many cases, when children are placed away from home after taking care, foster homes are the best option for the child. Research shows that the earlier a child enters a foster home, the more likely the response is to succeed. Many children wait a long time for foster homes, and this is very unfortunate. It is important that when public authorities take over child care - the greatest intervention in a family - we must be sure that the measures we take against children are good enough. Recruitment of good foster homes and the development of foster homes must therefore be a high priority task for any government. The Ministry prioritizes the work of foster parents to obtain good working conditions, and they are currently reviewing the foster home area. An important element of this work is to provide good framework conditions for foster homes for which the State is responsible. The framework conditions shall be laid down in new standard contracts for shelters and family homes under preparation in the Ministry in cooperation with Bufdir, NTL, Trade Union Confederation and FO. foster homes shall receive relief and organised free periods as well as a longer period of free time after completion of the accommodation; In addition, homes will be entitled to sickness benefits and leave in connection with birth and adoption. It also discusses how pension issues can be resolved. Homes will also be provided with better job protection than they now have by the fact that the contract will contain detailed rules on the termination procedure. However, I would like to point out from the SV that it is important that all foster homes, whether state-owned or municipal, have good social rights. These homes do a very important job for public Norway. However, the Ministry cannot grant municipal housing rights alone. For this reason, the Ministry has called a meeting of the Municipal Councils to discuss what needs to be done to strengthen the framework conditions for municipal foster homes as well. That's SV satisfied with. Training and guidance for foster homes is important in order to provide children with the best possible offer and follow-up. It can also help more people want to become and continue to be foster parents. Children’s, youth and family directorates have been given the task of expanding today’s training and guidance provision, so that all foster parents, irrespective of where they live in the country, are provided with guidance and follow-up even outside normal office hours. Good supervision is essential to ensure the legal certainty of children in foster homes. Buffetat is currently responsible for assisting municipalities in the recruitment and training of supervisors. By the end of 2007, it was 10 pst. who had not been appointed as supervisor. These include completely new locations and emergency locations. Both the county and the ministry stress in meetings with the municipalities the importance of all foster homes having supervisors. On the issue of the legal right of children to follow-up protection, the Stortinget has discussed this several times, but has concluded that it is not appropriate. Nor, when children under 18 years of age, which is the primary area of responsibility of the Child Protection Act, are entitled to services under the Child Protection Act, would it be inappropriate for young people over 18 years of age to have such a right. Instead, the Government proposes to make clarifications in the Child Protection Act to stress that the Child Protection Service also has a responsibility for young people between 18 and 23 years of age. The proposal implies that child protection services must always justify why an action initiated should not continue after the youth reaches the age of 18 or why an application for follow-up protection is rejected. Child protection services shall always take a decision on child protection with the best focus on the child. In addition, the justification will provide the State with a better basis for decision during any review procedure. Finally, I would like to stress from the SV that the best interests of the child should be the starting point for the actions taken against the child. Children shall be heard from the age of seven and their opinion shall be given priority in matters relating to them. Prevention is important, so that children are not too late for action. Foster homes are good for many children, while for other children there may be other measures that are best for the child. The best interests of the child shall always be taken into account in the choice of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1847	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1850	The best interests of the child shall always be the basis for action. We heard the representative May Hansen talk about hearing children from seven years of age, but that of course does not apply when we use the law on child protection services. The children here are hardly heard to be offended. But the best part of the child must be on the ground. 676 children are unsupervised. I want to ask the representative May Hansen if she thinks it is best for the child that 676 children living in foster homes are unattended in Norway today. No one knows how they're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1857	Firstly, I believe that the Children's Convention says that children should be heard in matters relating to them. I believe that child protection must also take into account - according to what the representative said in a reply to her: the Children’s Convention ‘goes ahead of’ Norwegian legislation. Of course, it is not good enough that children do not have supervisors in Norway. The representative knows very well that SV made a similar proposal that the Christian People's Party has now made, but the department has gone in and done a job. Recruitment and training of supervisors throughout the country are now being tried. You go in and tell the local authorities that this has to be done. I believe that the legal certainty of any child is very important. As I said in my post, when the public goes in and takes care of children, which is the biggest intervention in the family sphere, we need to know that the measures we have are good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1865	The representative of May Hansen has a strong commitment for them to postpone the children. She mentioned in her reply now to the representative Woldseth that SV has also made proposals, but these have not been dealt with or re-enacted – if that is correct. Now one is in government, and the representative May Hansen said one was happy with the professional dishes for foster parents. KS is called to a meeting in the ministry because one now has a review of the state foster parents' framework conditions. But is May Hansen pleased that KS is being called to a meeting because it needs stronger leadership? KS itself has said that they will not oblige municipalities to grant professional dishes to municipal foster parents. Doesn't May Hansen think it's going to have to be a lot bigger grip on it? And: will SV press much harder, so that many of the proposals that SV today might want to vote for, but must vote against, are realized?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1874	It's very funny when the representative of the Christian People's Party is promoting exactly the same proposal that was made just a few years ago, in the last period, and when you had the Council of State in this field. Had the Christian People's Party then supported SV and got its government on it, all this would have been in place. What I'm satisfied with is that something has actually happened under this government. The Ministry has addressed the various areas and strengthened the rights of children in several areas. Municipalities are responsible for municipal child protection. The state is responsible for the protection of the state's children. And it's actually out in the municipalities the most important job is done. As I also said here to the representative Olemic Thommess from the Right: that is where preventive child protection must be implemented. It is where you have to enter early, and it is clear that municipalities must have supervisors to supervise the foster homes for which they are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1881	Now I don't have an overview of whether it has been Document No. Eight proposals that were discussed in this committee in the previous period that I wasn't in, but I've seen one that I've printed out now, Document No. 8:76 for 2004-2005. It has not been dealt with in the committee, because it has become a new big choice, and it has not been re-emerged. But it is possible that the representative has some other proposals that we have not supported - I should not be bastant about them. I have, as I said, printed one and saw that there are several suggestions from SV that we argue for. It's not a very similar proposal. We also have other proposals. SV has suggested this earlier, but will vote against this today, and it seems strange to me from the argument that this government has done something. May Hansen stands and argues against what she herself has proposed, for example. legal right to poster protection, and I thought it was a little strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1886	I am not opposed to the proposals that I made on behalf of the SV last period. We made suggestions very many times, and it is quite right as the representative says, that in this area SV has been very active. We've been worried that the kids don't get the measures they need. We've been worried that we're not able to recruit enough foster homes and supervisors, and that the rights of these children aren't well cared for, because they haven't been. We know that when as many as 10 pst. We also have a way forward without supervisors. With regard to this with the right to follow-up protection, I believe that this government has done a great deal to get these children affected now, both by giving them the right to complain to the County Council, by making child-care assessments, and that child-rescue protection should be included and the reason why no child-restraint is given. It's actually now 85 pst. which has received post-protection measures. It wasn't in the last period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1893	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1896	Much of the discussion about this proposal for a representative has been about who has the honour and who is to blame - depending on the period of government to which reference is made. That's why I want to make a tribute to Laila Davøy, who was in the mood for a very important reform in this area. We have had a state child protection reform, and that is the reform that much agrees that we should now follow up. It thus distorts the use of more home-based interventions and foster homes. That's why we've had a growing discussion about the ability of these foster homes to follow up children and young people. With regard to the issue of post-closure protection, it has become increasingly central and more people now receive post-closure protection than before. 85 pst. by applicants for follow-up protection and that is important. But there's always a discussion about the content of this post-protection, whether that's good enough. I think we're going to have an open discussion with those who have after-protection, about what kind of after-protection they want, because it's important that we can strengthen the content of this after-protection. I believe that the content of the poster protection must be what the discussion is about. Then we have to look at whether today's law is strong enough. We have considered that it is inappropriate to convert this into a right, but we want to strengthen the right to follow-up protection by assessing whether the municipality should now justify a refusal, why, if necessary, rejection of an application, so that post-protection becomes much more the norm than is the case today. And I believe that, if this is adopted, it is a strengthening of the right to post-protection, even if it is not a right to post-protection in the sense that the representative here is proposing. Good supervision is also important in order to ensure the legal certainty of children in foster homes. Bufetate is today taking responsibility for assisting municipalities in the recruitment and training of supervisors. By the end of 2007, it was 10 pst. who had not been appointed as supervisor. Of course, there are too many, but there has been a strengthening in the number of supervisors. We need to pay attention to the fact that supervisors are being trained to do a good job in their homes. Nor are we going to put ourselves under the chair that many homes - and many children - find it exhausting to be visited by a supervisor, but we must therefore facilitate legal certainty here. As Mr. May Hansen has explained, we now have a cooperation agreement with key actors to strengthen the social rights of foster homes. It's the Bufdir, the NTL, the Trade Unions and the Joint Organisation. They shall consider the possibility of relief, free periods, longer periods of leave after emergency accommodation, sick pay and entitlement to leave. It's important, because many foster homes assume a great responsibility, and it's important that their rights become stronger than they are today. Municipal foster homes also need increased rights. That is why we have invited the Municipal Councils to cooperate in this field. Last but not least, I would like to stress the need of many foster homes for help even after office hours. We have given Bufdir the task of ensuring that all foster homes are provided with guidance and follow-up, even outside normal office hours. The goal is to get a twist towards less use of institutions and more use of foster homes, but then we need to strengthen the ability of foster homes to take care of some of the most vulnerable children and young people in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1913	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1916	I want to talk a little bit more about the supervision, because 676 children are standing without supervisors and we have traveled around many municipalities and heard that recruiting supervisors is a very difficult task. The council says in its statement that many children - and foster homes - find it hard to get a supervisor to visit four times a year. That's what we're talking about, not frequent visits, it's four times a year. I might think that if the council is of the opinion that children and foster homes think it's tiring, you should at least go into the foster homes and to the children who actually think it's tiring, because there's probably something behind there. When we know that it is so difficult to recruit supervisors, I wonder if the Council of State could consider the proposal of the Progress Party to set up a free and independent child protection agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1925	I would like to strongly warn against the insinuations that Mr Woldseth is bringing here. There are many well-functioning foster homes that find it difficult that there are still visits from the supervisor. We should not suspect those who think so. Nevertheless, we want to have the goal of having a supervisor at all homes, because legal certainty is, as I also said in my post, crucial here. When it comes to assessing independent supervision, we believe that this is well-managed today. If we look at the overall proposals of the Progress Party, this party still wants to reduce the resources it spends on caring for children. There is one area you want to add to your resources, and that's your supervision. We are of the opinion that supervision should be strong, but we will take a strong distance from the cutting-off proposals proposed by the Progress Party, which will lead to poorer care for children in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1932	There are many places that there are children waiting to be assigned a foster home. In some municipalities and in some areas there may probably be good recruitment of foster parents, while the other places are very short. My challenge to the Council of State is: what will it do concretely to improve recruitment? Those who work with this can tell you that it is hard to get enough foster parents to meet their needs. Some foster parents feel that they may not get the download they want, and some foster parents tell about the horror scenario when it comes to securing their own legal rights. If they get sick, if they cannot be foster parents anymore, or if suddenly they are no longer needed, they are quite weak. This applies not least to the municipalities, but also to the state foster homes. What will the Council of State do to ensure that more people get a foster home and to ensure professional and legal rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1941	One of the areas in which we have invested is to improve the education provision for those who become foster parents. The foster parents themselves are pleased that we've strengthened this part. They believe that this is a qualitative improvement in the provision of foster homes and that they are better placed to meet the many challenges you face as foster parents. So we're on our way in this area. So when it comes to social rights, we have a cooperation on this, and it's quite right that the representative Molvær Grimstad argues that social rights are a prerequisite for recruiting more foster homes. Help for more times than just office hours is also very important. That is why we have given Bufdir the task of designing an offer that is better organised to help when children and young people are at home from school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1949	An important problem area is simply getting enough foster homes. That's where it pinches right now. I'm sitting with a feeling that the government is doing a little too many things at the same time. You have to make Bufetat work, you have to have financial management in place, and you have to do an ideological act that is about phasing out significant parts of the offer. You give pretty bad signals like that into child protection. At the same time, you have to build a government offer. Here's a pretty big thing to do at the same time. What we see is that there are 96 psts. received last year, gets 21 pst. place in year, where 46 pst. must wait more than three months this year, it was only 1 pst. had to do it last year. This is a very alarming sign. We simply see the picture of a child protection going in the wrong direction. Perhaps the Council of State will begin to give some priority to these tasks? And how will she attack this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1958	I disagree that we have a child protection that goes in the wrong direction. The really big grips were founded by Laila Davøy, who was Minister for Children and Family Affairs of the previous period, and that is what we are following to a large extent. I believe that the grips we're doing now are an extension of this. We want to make greater use of foster homes and to strengthen foster homes. My priority is to increase the ability of foster homes to receive children. But first of all, there is a difference between this government and the previous government in the desire to strengthen child protection financially. The previous government provided the basis for a major reform for which it was not paid because it prioritised tax credits at the top. Therefore, I am glad that we follow up on what was the main act of the previous government, but that we also add more money to child protection, so that we can help the children who need it most.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1965	There's actually a lot of foster parents recruited, because there's a lot more people who need it. But what was the great warning in dealing with this matter was the supervision part. When you say people are becoming more and more selfish, the recruitment of foster parents is really an argument against it. There are a lot of people who want to spend time helping children. That's why I think it's very strange that there should be so many people who don't want to use the time to check that the children have a good stay. So my question to the Council of State is whether she doesn't think it's anything structural in relation to priority -- compared to that backing up those who are going to do the job, they feel that they have to have in order to be able to do it properly -- that's the problem, and not that people don't care. Because I think people care a lot for kids to feel good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1970	I agree with the representative of Skei Grande that many people care. Recruiting supervisors has been an important work for the Government. We have the power to get the number of supervisors up. We've had more foster homes. And during this period we have also been able to recruit supervisors. So I think this has to do with going out and telling people about the important job it is to be the supervisor, but also the important work it is to have conversations with children. Much of the business has not been sufficiently sensitive to understanding the child’s needs. We have to make sure that the supervisory role works in such a way that children who are not well at foster home can tell the supervisor. It is a very great responsibility of the supervisors, and therefore I believe that it is our job to give them better skills and also more advice in difficult situations that each supervisor is faced with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1977	I can't let it hang in the air that the Council of State says she's taking a great distance from the budget line of the Progress Party--I guess that's what she means. What the Council of State should do, and that's actually a good advice, is read all the comments we've had in all child protection matters and in all cases of law on child protection services over the years, so that she knows where we stand. What we're critical of, like the National Audit Office, is the consumption going on in Bufdir, and that's where we cut money. We don't cut into the municipal frames -- rather, on the contrary, we increase them, so that you have to have more for home-based services and foster homes. I hope that this Council of State does not interfere with a confrontational line towards the Progress Party, instead of actually getting involved in what we have done in the area of child protection. These are things that we burn for and have a heart for. I hope the Council of State can look across the parties and not go into the debate as prejudiced as she was obviously now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1986	I have no wish for any confrontation with the Progress Party, but it is obvious that there are major differences in the views of this government and the former government and the Progress Party on Child Protection. I have read the comments of the Progress Party in the budgetary position, and it states in 2008 that ‘the costs of the State Child Protection seem to have no limits’. And then it goes on to write: ‘Despite the fact that the Government has stated on several occasions that action should be taken at home.’ This can mean that the Progress Party wants costs to be reduced because of the desire to take action at home. And so if you look at where it's cut, it's the ones that's going to help foster homes work. Bufdir is a central player to make foster homes work and to assist municipal child protection. Therefore, Bufdir is absolutely central to raising the quality and knowledge transfer throughout child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e1991	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2009	An EEA Joint Committee agrees that the EEA Agreement will now incorporate the EU Action Programme to prevent and combat violence against children, young people and women and to protect victims and groups at risk. This is an important fight to fight. Too many killings are committed by violence in close relationships. The Daphne programme obliges Member States to contribute financially. And if it's something that's important to help end, it's just violence against children, young people and women. The Committee's comments are not a criticism of the Daphne III programme. We simply want to stress that the more people pull the load, the stronger you get. For almost two years, the Council of Europe has had an action and campaign against violence in close relations - I am sitting there in an advocacy working on this - and it has published a user manual for politicians to combat violence. I also attended the United Nations Women's Commission in New York in February, and under the auspices of the United Nations, a book on combating violence has also been published in close relations. That is why the Committee would like to see, now that the Daphne III programme is under way, also look at what has been done so that we can move forward and combat violence against women and children in the most effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2018	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3028]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2034	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3028]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2043	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2051	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Advance Party, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of a full duty-free regime for all goods from Swaziland with effect from 1 July 2008.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision consents to the Government’s authorisation to initiate amendments to the GSP scheme as proposed and to provide the necessary notifications.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2082	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party, says: ‘The decrease requests the Government to grant zero duty to all low income countries under the DAC list, with effect from 1 January 2009.’» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2125	During the debate, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been turned into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government come back at the latest in the 2009 State Budget with an investigation of emissions from petrol and diesel vehicles and the effects of retrofitting particulate filters in diesel cars, related to the reduction of local pollution emissions and any harmful health effects from increased NO2.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2153	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left proposal No 2, by Hans Olav Syversen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the gradual liquidation of the property tax.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2177	Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose exemptions from taxes on wealth for working capital, with effect from 1 January 2009.’» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote. The Progress Party and the Right have notified that they wish to support the proposal in a subsidiary manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2206	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposal No. 2, from the left, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the 2009 State Budget, to promote the necessary changes to the Tax Act so that self-employed persons are given the option of choosing a deduction in line with, and to the extent, the right of ordinary workers to the minimum deduction.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2230	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party, says: ‘The Government asked the Government to investigate a system of deductions for self-employed workers and to present it to the Grand Duchy in the context of the 2009 State Budget.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote. The President assumes that the Left will now support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2259	There will be a vote on the proposal by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 24 April 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement the necessary legislative changes so that the guarantee of Minister of Industry Dag Terje Andersen in Stortinget on 7 February 2008 that the political decision that the last third of the latent tax liabilities can be carried out as equity may be adapted to the legislation of the professionals who design them.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2277	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from May Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 4, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party There will be a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines for the cultural school activity which secures the professional and social profile of the offer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2304	There will be a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a pilot scheme in which several municipalities, through intermunicipal work, are invited to take responsibility for the cultural school system in their area.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2319	There will be a vote on the proposals No. 1-3, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that literary productions and dissemination are taken into account in the context of state support for cultural activities in the school.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch a research programme to increase knowledge of the arts and culture sector’s relationship with the training field. An important objective of the research programme must be to increase knowledge of the integrity of the cultural school system and how to achieve better cooperation between the training sector and the cultural sector.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish its own entry in the State budget for the Norwegian School of Culture Council’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2362	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 4 and 5, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 7, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 8, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 6 and 9, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 10, from the Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right The President noted that the right in the vote was erroneously listed as co-rapporteur for proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox There will be a vote on proposal No. 10, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with a case relating to social rights relating to municipal foster homes, explaining all aspects of a contractual right to a public service pension and sickness benefit scheme for the parent who, in the interests of the foster child, is required, in whole or in part, to be out of other work while the child lives in the foster home.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2403	There will be a vote on the proposals No. 6 and 9, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to ensure that all foster parents who are wholly or partly out of ordinary employment, are entitled to sickness benefit and occupational pension.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the transfer of responsibility for the supervision of foster homes to the county council.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2425	There will be a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of free and independent child protection supervision.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2440	There will be a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the remuneration conditions for supervisors with a view to balancing the differences between municipalities and facilitating recruitment of supervisors.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2455	There will be a vote on the proposals No. 4 and 5, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with a case on the after-care of child-restraint children, explaining the coordination between child protection law and social services law, what such a right could include, the area of activity in the municipality to manage that right, take the necessary measures and follow up the compliance of the measures with this right.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with a case of concrete measures to strengthen the ability of child-rescue children to master the educational situation, to obtain the necessary work training and to develop social networks in addition to the network of foster families, family homes and institutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2477	There will be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals giving young people with child protection measures the right to follow-up protection until the age of 23.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2492	There will be a vote on the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to sue the Storting for the exploitation of all available capacity in respect of foster home and family home services, regardless of whether these offers are public or private.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to ensure sound professional guidance and adequate relief for all foster parents.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-29.ana.ud363e2665	Before the meeting is cancelled, the President will draw attention to the fact that the meeting of Odelsting will be held at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox However, saving time has time to take one minute's meeting [[muttering in the hall]]
