ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e23	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Right-wing Group to the representative, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, from 27 February until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Rolf Jarle Brøske, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e42	Rolf Jarle Bruske is present and will take the seat. The representative, Lars Sponheim, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e47	On behalf of my co-representatives Linda Hofstad Helleland, Hanne D. Søttar, Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I would like to propose a tax exemption for research institutes receiving basic funding from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e52	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e55	I would like to present with this a proposal for a representative on an action plan for a more modern and well-kept railway in the Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e60	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e85	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e94	Over the last few years, we have spent more money on health and increased health spending more than on any other sector in Norway. It's about the previous government, and it's about the current government. It gave good results for a long time. Under the previous government, waiting time fell. Several patients were treated, and we experienced good results, but there were governance challenges with the new health reform that were not in place, and in recent years these governance challenges seemed to be growing. It's the patients who lose that we have a health care system that's out of control. It is the patients who lose that the cancers of the health care system are now being used for a blackmail game and not for patient treatment. It would have been nice if the Prime Minister today, as opposed to the Minister of Health, who was here yesterday, could bring some good news to patients in Norwegian health care that the Government had solutions to bring about peace in the health sector, to ensure that the health reform introduced in 2001 works and has not just become a new basis for blackmail. There were two parties in this big business who were supporters when the reform was implemented, not because this was our reform, for this is Jens Stoltenberg's reform from the last time he was prime minister, but because we thought it was important to have more patients treated and put an end to the black market game. My challenge to the Prime Minister is: Can he promise in the next six months to put on the table a plan and a list of measures that will put an end to the blackmail and use the resources to treat patients and get governance back in the Norwegian health sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e105	First of all, I would like to stress that what is good about Norwegian health care is that we treat more patients than ever. Only in the years that this government has been in power, has the increase been so great that we are now treating over 50,000 more patients than it was added to the last budget of the Bondevik government. But I'm not going to start a debate now, as the representative Solberg puts it, assuming that in the last period, everything was simple and transparent and good in the health care system, and now all the problems have suddenly emerged. It has been so for many years that more money has been allocated to health and treated several patients, under several governments, and that is good. But when Solberg gives the impression that there were no problems under the previous government, for example. with financial management, it is manifestly wrong. If you are concerned about, for example: health business deficits were higher for several years than they are now. What this government has done, and which is good news for patients, are at least two important, fundamental things. One is that we have made sure that for the first time more money is allocated in the budget itself for more patient treatment. It's better financial management, gives better predictability and more for money, to use that expression, than was the case in the last period, when you made steady supplementary appropriations. The second is that we have made sure that what was a prerequisite for the whole hospital reform, namely to put in place a system to finance investment, has been put in place in the budget for 2008. We've allocated NOK 1.7 billion to it, and that means that hospitals now know how to deal with investing in new hospitals and the framework for it. The government presents health plans in two ways - at national health level and in the state budget - and we do so every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e118	So that was no good news from the Prime Minister to the patients today. There were no measures, there was no understanding that we are actually in a very critical situation, where there are also questions about the reform that has now been organised. There's a lot of important things to look at. One thing is that in Norway, we spend significantly more money in the health sector than they do in our neighbouring countries, without necessarily getting more treatment for patients than you get in Sweden and Denmark. So there's room for finding new tools. You can, for example: Look at what you do well in other countries, which we don't do as well here, to spend the money better. So I'm glad that the Prime Minister now takes an old Right Battleword, "More for the Money," in his mouth. The situation has now shown that the policy of the Prime Minister's opposition, namely 'only more money', has not provided better governance. I repeat my main question: can the Prime Minister promise that we will now have a management system in place where we do not have a Health Minister who goes in and oversees all the professional advice and governance of the various health companies? [[The President tries to interrupt the speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e127	The President must remember the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e130	There was a lot of good in the Norwegian health service during the previous government. There is even much better in the Norwegian health service under this government. And so it will certainly be under the coming governments as well. Because what we're doing here in the country is giving more money to health, so we're treating more patients. Then I don't think we serve the debate that's about the unresolved problems that are always going to be there, to present it as if it were better governance before. If you have control, for example. So how many patients are being treated do we treat significantly more now than under the previous government? If corporate deficits are thought to be controlled, the deficits were greater under the previous government. And if you think with control that you have a system to finance hospitals, we have a significantly better system now, because now the money is allocated in the budgets, not after-appropriations in the middle of the year, and we have a system for investing in the hospitals. This government has put it in place. The most important thing for patients is that more patients are treated. We're gonna make sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e137	There will be follow-up questions - No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e140	I might remind the Prime Minister that his own government, as late as last year, proposed to grant - mid-year - 800 million. kr. The Prime Minister may remember that he has been Prime Minister once before, and that at that time he had a Minister of Health named Tore Tønne, who launched the hospital reform. It had one reason, namely that political responsibilities should be clear, and that all political responsibilities should lie with the Minister of Health. Now the Prime Minister has a government with a Health Minister who follows the opposite line, namely that no responsibility lies with the Minister of Health. Therefore she used her entire account in the main hall yesterday to criticize her own subordinates, the governments that she herself has appointed - every one she herself has appointed. How does the Prime Minister feel that Stortinget should be able to deal with the management of the Norwegian healthcare system when the Council of State refuses to take responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e150	I remember being Prime Minister before! I am more concerned about the political memory in the Right, which makes it as if there were no problems in Norwegian health care in the previous period. It's trouble now, it was before. And I can say one more thing: there's going to be problems in the years to come. Because as we can imagine a society where we have full child care coverage and full hospital coverage, I don't think we can ever say that we have full hospital coverage in the sense that we've saturated all the needs we have for health care, because they grow almost endlessly. What we have to do is make sure that we treat as many patients as possible, and that we do so in the best possible way. So first of all, we're going to give more money, and secondly, we're going to take responsibility the way we're going to take it. We present national health plans. We then control a lot and give the long-term control signals. And then we take responsibility in the budgets, where we grant money. Then it is the responsibility of health businesses to govern within the framework of the growth and government that has drawn up. All parties agree on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e155	Per Sandberg - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e158	It might have been a thought to start looking a little bit ahead in terms of the health challenges, instead of always pointing to what might be missing earlier. I think it's interesting what the Prime Minister says, that we need to focus on treating as many patients as possible. I think that's a cross-political agreement. But the situation now is that the queues are growing. They actually grow by 20,000 a year, as opposed to the previous period. Then I think it's interesting to challenge the Prime Minister for this: In yesterday's debate, one of the issues was that we had too much activity in the healthcare community, and we actually had employees for a lot of people. My conclusion if we have too much activity and too many people employed, is that it means a cut-off and through it the treatment of fewer patients. Isn't it time for one to look at system changes that are going in the direction of what we had in the last period, with a price that was significantly higher, and where we actually reduced the queues by 20,000 every year? It's a success factor. Then we have to remove the disadvantages that might have to be with the price of a piece as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e165	The 2008 budget, which is the most important management document for large-scale and government-owned hospitals, provides for more patients to be treated, and for the first time in many years it is the autumn before the year that we grant money for increased patient treatment in Norwegian hospitals. It is probably the best hospital budget ever, in the sense that both the level and the increase are greater than before. And it's not added to cuttings when we're going to add almost 7 billion kroner to the hospitals. Much is going to cover increased cost growth, NOK 4 billion is going to cover increased activity and increased bets in hospitals. So we add up to more patient care, more money and increased appropriations to Norwegian hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e170	Dagfinn Højbråten - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e173	I can testify that there have been problems before, and I can comfort the Prime Minister that this will not be over. But what is new in Norwegian health policy is Jens Stoltenberg. It is almost touching to hear how strongly he is saying that additional appropriations should not be given. When I was Minister of Health, the same Stoltenberg was still ahead - it was correct on this platform - and demanded new additional appropriations in the course of the year, several times. Even after we had entered into a budgetary settlement with the Labour Party in Stortinget, it was adopted in the regrouping proposal of 350 million. extra for the hospitals in 2003. I'm glad this is over. But I think this with the hospitals is going to be a hot topic in 2009 unless the government takes any new hold. It's not about breaking budgetary frameworks, but it's about looking at the system. If you want to save this hospital reform, which I think the Prime Minister is interested in, he has to come in and see why there has been so much store and so little policy in Norwegian health care. He has to look into and tune down the price-of-piece financing for the overall financing of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e182	What I think is a common challenge for all politicians in this big business is to recognize that we never get there that we can say that there are enough health services. In a lot of other areas of society, we could say that it could be enough -- at some point, we have enough kindergartens, and I think we can get there, too, that we're saying that there are enough sick places. But I don't think we're ever going to get there that we're saying there's enough hospital services, because it's almost impossible to imagine that we're able to satisfy all the needs that result from being able to treat more and more suffering. When it comes to supplementary appropriations, it's right that we've gone in for it when we've thought it necessary. We thought it was necessary as late as last year. But this year, it's the first time in many years that we've given up so that there'll be great growth in the budget itself, and we think it'll give better management of hospitals when we grant in advance and stick to that budget, because then the hospitals know what they're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e189	Lars Sponheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e192	I can testify that the then Health Minister, Dagfinn Høybråten, was very frustrated by the opposition leader Stoltenberg's ability to undermine the governance and ownership authority of the then Health Minister. This is probably the round, and I fully agree with the Prime Minister that it is likely to be in the future, if we do not succeed in taking system intervention other than what has been called for so far in this spontaneous question hour, namely to address the fundamental challenge: how can we reduce the strongly increasing demand for hospital services? I saw today numbers that showed that four out of five people who come inside the hospital doors have nothing to do there, but should have been stopped before they got there by providing adequate treatment at home, in the municipality of the home or in a nursing home etc. And the second is that the way we live our lives, it seems like we're kind of starting to put ourselves in a hospital queue, considering later in life -- that's why prevention means something. Can the Prime Minister be with the Left on a challenge to take some basic system approach that gives us a chance to solve these challenges, and not just go into the boring dance we are now witnessing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e197	The answer to that question is yes. I believe that what Sponheim is inviting is an important debate on how we can reduce the need for hospital services. It's about prevention, it's about better lifestyle, it's about things like we can do more in hospitals, relief services that are not hospitals. There is an important debate, and I would like to take part in it. But otherwise it is also important to consider that when there is an increased need for hospital services, it is also an expression of success. When people live 70 days longer per day, years in this country, the number of people who need more and more health care is increasing, and that is good, because people live longer. And when the need for cancer treatment increases by something like 24 000 a year, at least many thousands a year, it's not good for more people to get cancer, but it's good that we have treatments to treat a lot more. So the fact that there's a lot of need is also an expression of a saying, that we can treat more than we could before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e202	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e206	Never before has the Norwegian state been as rich as the state is now. If today's oil price keeps going, we could expect a surplus of $500 billion on the state budget for the current year, which is $100,000 per year. built-in. But while the state is getting richer and richer, most people don't notice much about this wealth. Of course, most people notice that the prices of petrol and diesel ladders, most people notice that taxes and taxes are rising, most people notice that interest rates are rising, most people report health problems and health cows, most people report problems in municipalities, and they record that the schools fall due, the churches fall due and the roads fall due. So the point is this: when we're now about to maybe get 150 billion dollars more in surplus than what we've been budgeting for on this current year's budget, it's not time for the Norwegian people, most people, to enjoy these money, and that one can use some of these money to reduce taxes and taxes, for example. reduce taxes on petrol and diesel, reduce car charges, reduce cows in the health sector and build a little better roads? Or does the Prime Minister still think that anything, no matter how many extra billions we get into surplus, will be saved to future generations? Isn't it time that even those who live today, those who are old, those who are sick, can also share in this wealth and enjoy some of these extra incomes that the state has quite unexpectedly received?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e213	I believe that those who live today will enjoy the oil money. That's why we've made a very nice rule that tells us how to increase the use of oil money in a good way, to the joy of everyone living today. At the moment, I'm happy to use about 70 billion oil crowns. It's every $12 on the state budget, which I enjoy every day. I think many others do, because it pays for hospitals, hospitals, roads and a lot of other great things to many people here in the country. We're a country with very low unemployment, it's halved in recent years, we've had record growth in the number of employees. Of course, this is because we have an excellent government, but it has been an advantage for this excellent government to also have some help with the oil money! At least that means that oil money gives Norway opportunities that we use, which means that we get more in this country than we do in many other countries. So we're enjoying it. I am not surprised that the party of progress does not rejoice, because the party of progress is in its nature a 'dissatisfied party', so it takes a lot to please you. But there are many others that I think see the value in that we actually have these oil money. So the question is, do people experience this? Yeah, I think so. Because when we're on track to get 10,000 more in the care of the elderly, that's good. When we strengthen the health care system with oil money, that's good. In the calculation of earnings, figures from the Technical Calculation Committee, we see that the growth in income in 2007, the real wage growth after tax, after price rise, is 4.5 pst. - the strongest purchasing power improvement since the 1970s for Norwegian employees. It will also benefit Norwegian pensioners, so we all enjoy the oil money. [[The President tries to interrupt the speaker]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e220	The President will be pleased if the speaking time is respected as we have agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e223	First, I want to say that the Progress Party is not a party that is dissatisfied by nature. We also welcome the increase in the use of oil money, but we think, to a greater extent than the Prime Minister and the Government Party, that the Norwegian people should also enjoy this money. Now, if today's oil price keeps up, according to estimates from the Ministry of Finance, in 2030 - a little over 20 years later - the Oil Fund will amount to 14 000 billion kroner. If we're the same number of people at that time, it's going to be $3 million. kr per. built-in. Then our starting point is that the Oil Fund is getting so big that we can start spending little more of these money on necessary things in Norway and also reducing taxes and charges in Norway. Won't the Prime Minister assess it too?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e228	I feel that I now got the same question as the previous time, so the answer will be similar to my previous answer. I think that when we spend $70 billion on hospitals, roads, pensions and many other good things, there's a lot of people who enjoy it -- including most people. The second is that when purchasing power only increases in one year by over 4 pst. for all groups, there are many who enjoy it, because they get a little bit more money to go with, to buy different things. The main point here is that what we're doing now, which is quite historic, is that we're relocating the Norwegian national wealth - from oil in the ground to money that gives us returns. Then we live on that return, and that will be a great joy for both present and future generations. The fact that we can also fund pensions, both current and future pensions, gives further reason for joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e235	There will be follow-up questions - first Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e238	In the 2007 alternative budget of the Progress Party, we proposed to use approx. 20 billion more than the government. We would use this for tax relief and for refurbishment of the country's infrastructure. The government parties repeatedly claimed that the use of NOK 20 billion by the Progress Party would lead to inflation, pressure on the krone price and relocation of Norwegian jobs. When the 2007 current budget was presented, it turned out that AS Norway had received NOK 42 billion more in tax revenue from the mainland economy than the estimates indicated one year ago. In order to achieve NOK 42 billion more in tax revenue, the activity of the Norwegian mainland economy must have been approximately. 150 billion more than the government spent in its budget for 2007. Increased activity in the mainland economy of SEK 150 billion did not lead to inflation, pressure on the exchange rate or relocation of Norwegian jobs. Does the Prime Minister still believe that the proposals of the Progress Party to spend 20 billion more in 2007 would lead to inflation, pressure on the krone price and job relocation? In that case -- why didn't an additional consumption of 150 billion dollars lead to the same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e243	I am absolutely sure that if you had increased the use of money as the Progress Party adds up to, both in its budgets and also in a wide range of additional proposals that you promote during the year, and which you often don't include in your budgets, we would have experienced that we had put the jobs over the board. We had experienced that we had weakened the basis of well-being because we had weakened the Norwegian economy, and we had taken a chance with the most important thing, that many could become unemployed. We now have a gradual, sound increase in the use of oil money every year. It's given good results, and I think we're going to continue that line. The fact that we have stronger growth in the mainland economy is not an argument for spending more oil money. If anything, that's an argument for using less oil money because we get some extra income. We also receive extra pressure in the Norwegian economy. If you do not see that there is a danger in terms of price increases now, I believe that there are some problems with the ability to observe, because we now have a very strong cost increase in Norway, which is a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e250	Erna Solberg - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e253	It's really quite embarrassing to see the Prime Minister's love for the rule of action and the enthusiasm it's being offered. But I'm sometimes a little anxious that the violent love of the rule of action as a political rule overshadows the fact that the economy is governed by real sizes, not by politically adopted rules. What is the challenge in our society today is not a lack of money. The challenge is that we lack hands. We're not going to get any more money left - to go back to the previous round of questions - by spending more money on a number of sectors now, because we lack our hands to solve the problems. Then we're talking about real economic sizes. Then my question and my challenge to the Prime Minister is whether he can explain the government's economic policy related to increasing the capacity of the economy. What measures have been taken to increase the number of hands at work in the years to come? So far, the government has said no to 31 proposals from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e258	I'm a committed adherent to the rule of action, but I'm trying to control my feelings so it doesn't evolve into a love life, because then I think it's going to be a sad existence. My advantage is that I have a relationship with two parties that may not have the same passionate joy of the rule, but as I would say are engaged followers of the same rule. The right-hand problem is that the right-hand side has a relationship with a party that is passionately opposed to that rule. The problem for citizens is that the two largest parties on the civil side have a relationship with two very different types of economic policy, and that is why this is a major contradiction on the civil side because we do not agree on the very foundation of economic policy - we must have a proper or irresponsible use of oil money. That's the difference between the Right Party and the Advance Party. So I agree that there are some hands we need, and that's why we do a lot with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e268	Hans Olav Syversen - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e271	70 billion kroner divided by 365 days would give a considerable amount of joy per day. day, especially if it's rule-driven in addition, I understand. Then not all countries that enjoy high oil prices as much as we can enjoy in Norway, namely the countries that are the poorest in the world, that need oil to make the wheels go around, and that now have to pay. So my question is whether not the fact that the oil price that is now over $100 per. In addition, we have a moral obligation to make sure that we are increasingly paying for aid to those countries that are losing on exactly the same high oil price. This means a stronger commitment to aid, not least in the areas of poverty, health and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e278	I thank you for a good and important question. Next to climate change, poverty is the biggest challenge of our time. About one billion people live in absolute poverty, lack food, lack access to the most necessary healthcare services, and many of them suffer from increased oil prices. So that's another argument that Norway is going to be a leading country in terms of assistance, as the Christian People's Party has always meant. We have increased assistance in all the years we have now been under government responsibility. We will present the budget for 2009 for the autumn, but the aid budget is one of the areas that we have a long tradition of prioritising. Then we get back to how many dollars, and how much the bet will be, but the aid will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e285	Lars Sponheim - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e288	When the mother of the rule of action was then Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen, at least I will not accuse the Prime Minister of being born in love [[muttering in the hall]] I want to express that the Left's perspective on these issues is fundamentally different from that of the Advance Party. In our perspective, most people are not yet born. And those of us who are most people today, according to our estimate, take their fair share of the oil revenues that we have. But even it's on the edge, at our discretion. What has made it possible to use so much oil money in the Norwegian economy already today has, among other things. has been that we have had a period in which we have gained an adventurous amount of labour from other countries. It's made it possible. Now we see that it can be demanding. Poland is also well home to more and more people, and that means that we are facing significant challenges. My simple question is: can the Prime Minister guide us in suggesting what would be required of labour immigration in order to comply with the policies of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e299	At least it would have meant that we almost had to force people to move to Norway, because now it is that we have a completely open labour market in the EEA area. The EEA Agreement has been a blessing to the Norwegian economy because so many people have been able to move to Norway and get a job here. Without that, we would have had no chance. Then we had big financial problems. We had not been able to build hospitals and roads and solve many other important problems. Among other things, I saw that, in Stavanger, many from Poland had now been hired to drive buses. We also need qualified people, and we've got a lot of them from the EEA. But we see that it stops. That means we need to do more to get more labour. That's one of the reasons why we, along with, for example, Left, implements a pension settlement to make it easier to combine work and social security and more profitable to work. There is also some reason why we are implementing the major NAV reform, which aims to get more people into work and not just into social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e306	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e309	The size of this spring is going to deal with some big, basic questions. It's about the Basic Law's value anchoring. It is about the Christian purpose paragraph of the Education Act and the Christian purpose paragraph of the Kindergarten Act. It is about the design of the CRL subject and it is about the proposal for a new marriage law. I get an unusual amount of requests from people who are worried that so many basic features of Norwegian society so to speak are in play, in fast order, at the same time, and many feel that they are not entirely attached. You can see that there's something basic that's missing, and there's a deep concern about what's happening to Norway. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he understands the concerns that many people feel about these planned major and far-reaching changes in our social structures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e318	The answer to that question is yes. Christian values, Christian cultural heritage, have been important, and are important, for Norway, and when we deal with questions that concern it -- with very different approaches, but that affects it -- I can understand that some people get worried, and that at least many people are very concerned about how we find solutions to all of the issues that the representative Højbrätten mentioned. In the case of the most important issues, we depend on that we get a broad deal. The main purpose paragraph is, of course, the value paragraph of the Constitutional Law relating to the State Church. There it is in the nature of the matter that we have to get a broad deal. It's about a constitutional change. Both because we need a two-thirds majority, and because we need a political breadth, the government will be concerned about reaching a broad consensus around Section 2 of the Constitution. When it comes to just how it should be designed, I think it's wise to sit in peace and at ease in the Storting until the Government has submitted its message, and then find a way to ensure that we take care of the concerns of the representative Højbrätten, but also other considerations – when we're going to create a new section 2 of the Constitution. As regards the Training Act and the Kindergarten Act, there has been a wide-ranging selection, the Housing Committee, which has come up with a common position on how they think a new purpose paragraph should be designed. At least a good basis is that a sample manages to arrive at a unanimous setting - a selection that is broadly composed of different beliefs and different environments. Now we're going to work on that basis and see if it's possible to figure out something that also brings together a broad political environment. In the case of the CRL subject, the situation is that there was a sentence that we had to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e331	I am pleased with the approach the Prime Minister has to these major issues and that he wants to discuss with more than his own government parties how to find good solutions for Norway that takes care of the heritage, the cultural heritage, that has influenced Norway through generations. My follow-up question is one of the issues that the Prime Minister did not address and that has not been the subject of the broad and comprehensive investigation referred to by the Prime Minister in respect of the purpose paragraphs. This is about the marriage law, where no such broad investigation has been carried out at all. It is a proposal that has been at the hearing, which seems very divisive on the Norwegian people in something that affects something as central in our lives as our lives. A number of hearing bodies, including: The Children's, Youth and Family Directorate, the Biotechnology Study and the Theological Faculty at the University have highlighted the lack of investigation and impact of this proposal. Will the Prime Minister take time for a proper impact assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e338	We believe that the proposal that the Government is now working on is sufficiently well established, and we will present it to the Stortinget. So we accept that there are different views, different opinions, but the government has to present what it finally comes to is a proper proposal, and we will do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e344	There will be follow-up questions - first May-Helen Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e347	The Prime Minister spoke about changes in the CRL subject and the Christian purpose paragraph, and that one would like to listen to the signals coming. The government's signal has shown that one wants to remove the Christian point of purpose in both the school and kindergarten. In 2005, there was a broad plurality on the Stortinget, where all, apart from SV, wanted to keep the Christian purpose paragraph in the kindergarten. The Christian People’s Party felt that it is important that both kindergartens and schools have Christian values. This is important for children to become acquainted with the Christian cultural heritage and the Christian basis of value. When the Prime Minister now says that one sees that the Christian cultural heritage is important, I wonder that the Government says at the same time that they will remove the Christian purpose paragraph in the nursery and that they will listen to the signal coming. Therefore, I wonder how the Prime Minister will ensure that we still have a good foundation in the Christian values.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e354	What the Government has said is what we said in the Soria Moria Declaration, namely that we will "read through the Christian Purpose Paragraph of the Training Act". We do, because many people have pointed out that the paragraph we have today is a challenge for all those professing to religions other than the Christian. So there's less of a sample. There are many with Christian backgrounds that are represented, but also others with different backgrounds. The selection reached a unanimous setting. It is a long paragraph, but the key proposal there is that training should be based on ‘equal value and solidarity, as these basic values are expressed in Christian and humanistic tradition’. Then the wide-ranging selection - unanimous - means that it is a way of caring for Christian values. The government did not finalise the selection setting. It will now be discussed, considered. I'm just saying that we're going to review these paragraphs, doesn't mean that we don't respect Christian values, but that they have to be managed in a way that is in line with what the majority believes to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e361	Ulf Erik Knudsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e364	One of the important issues of spring is the marriage law, and we have noticed there that the prime minister is a member of homosexuality and homosexuality. We in the Advancement Party do not share his view of this area. We have recently had an adoption case in Stortinget, and in this context, hundreds of hetero-filed couples are in line - and some have been in line for two or three years - to adopt. We were also informed that none of the countries from which we adopt accept homosexuals as adoptive parents, and some are also likely to break cooperation with Norway in all adoption cases if we adopt homoadoption in Norway. The consequences can therefore be significant in the views of the Prime Minister and the Government. My question is whether the Government intends to go through its vision, regardless of the consequences this might have for adoption in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e373	The government, and the government parties, have, in the Soria Moria Declaration, said that we want a marriage law where homosexuals can also be allowed to make marriages. We believe that because we believe that it is love that should be essential, and that those who have a different sexual orientation should also have the opportunity to make a marriage. I think that is actually a very important value, an important expression of respect for people who also have other sexual orientation. There, the Workers' Party has a long tradition of working on this kind of reform - from decriminalising homophilis in the early 1970s until we got the Partnership Act. For adoption, the main problem is not foreign adoption, but the main problem is that today many children grow up with parents of the same sex, or in gay couples. The new marriage law will give those children better security around their growth, better regulated framework, and I think that is not least an advantage for those children. In the case of foreign adoption, the different countries will have to deal with it as they please. It is essential that we in Norway adopt laws that ensure children also in gay couples.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e382	Olemic Thommessen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e385	I agree with the Prime Minister's wish to have wide-ranging settlements in the thematic area we are talking about now. But the more surprised we are when we see how to deal with the issue of CRL. For there it is that, under the guise of a judgment of the Human Rights Court, one is now running a separate race to tighten up on the CRL subject, while in reality one had a good time and opportunity to see this in connection with the treatment of the purpose paragraph, which comes in the next round. It would have been a completely different and much better foundation for creating the broad similarities and the good dialogue to which the Prime Minister invites. We've also noticed that within the Government there are different views on this. Where SV claims that this is a major problem in relation to human rights, the Center Party believes that there is no problem at all, and the Center Party believes that you can continue with the law as it is. Isn't this a clever move that just doesn't invite such broad talks as the Prime Minister invites?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e394	I think I have to remind you that what we're doing with the CRL is the result of our being convicted. Norway has been sentenced to human rights violations in the Human Rights Court. We can disagree with the court. You may think that a court is wrong, but you still respect the judgments. So regardless of what you might think about the verdict, I think it's quite obvious that Norway has to respect the verdict. The changes we are now making are changes that our foremost legal expertise believes are absolutely necessary in order not to be re-judged. It would be unfortunate if Norway were again convicted of human rights violations. It will actually weaken our position in relation to being able to criticise other countries when they violate human rights in a far more serious way than Norway has done in this matter. If it's possible to satisfy the demands of the court, in other ways-- well, we're open to discussing it. But as we perceive the verdict, and as our legal expertise perceives the verdict, it is therefore limited - to say so - how much gambling space we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e403	Odd Einar Doorroom - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e406	I assume that both the Prime Minister's Party and the Left have in common that we believe that Norwegian society is based on Christian and humanist traditions and values, but that we are also committed to human rights, that we are a society in which we have all the major world religions. If we are to meet the Prime Minister's invitation to wide-ranging conciliation, the Left believes that it requires in principle cleanliness. For example, in the relationship between state and church, we must not risk ending up with the «religious life of the state», where there is no deep respect for the inner life of such a large religious community as the Norwegian Church. As far as marriage law is concerned, we must be so tidy that we know that marriage, whether it is between heterophiles or between homosexuals in a faithful loving life, belongs to the bourgeois legal order. We don't have to get into a situation where we can risk that it's the state that's going to dictate a religious community what it's going to do. So will the Prime Minister be willing to think in principle tidy, so that what belongs to the bourgeois rule of law is undeniably clear, but that the independence of the religious communities and the inner life should be free from the intervention and governance of the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e416	The question I'm getting now illustrates the importance of wide-ranging settlements. But for the Left and for the Workers' Party, for all parties, there's a limit to how far you want to go to make a deal. As far as marriage law is concerned, I don't think it's possible to bring all the parties here in the Stortinget if you're going to observe what the Left Party and the Workers' Party are agreed on, namely that they are going to have the right to marry. It limits the scope of the agreement if that principle is to stand firm, because there are some who disagree with that principle. So settlements are important, but not at all costs. As far as marriage is concerned, if I perceive the representative of Dørum correctly, he wants to deprive the Church of the right to marry, that marriage should be a purely civil act. That's not what the government has joined in for. We believe that the Church should still have that right, but we are not going to oblige them to commit homosexuals. We believe that we should respect the Church's own assessments of it, but we should give homosexuals the right to marry under the Marriage Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e426	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e429	The store should have received the notification of the state and church before Christmas. At the moment, as far as I know, it is uncertain when the Storting is going to get it presented. This means that it is also uncertain whether the Stortinge would be able to deal with it in time for any constitutional amendments to be promoted. There are strong reports that the government is going to invite the Stortinget to lock up the Royal Church regime - that is, the government's task as top church government. At the same time, the Prime Minister says that a whole new section 2 will be discussed. I interpret it as yours that he believes that the rule on the public religion of the state should be removed. It is, in my opinion, deeply illogical and deeply inconsistent. This means that in the future we will have a minister of the Church who can sit alone with His Majesty and make decisions on church issues, that is, as at the end of 1660. This means that Norway no longer has a public religion, but it is the minister of the church who governs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e436	We don't want to introduce the domain. We still want democracy in Norway. I believe that the State-Church case is well served by the fact that we are conducting the negotiations under reliable and good conditions in the Stortinget. As I said, for all parties, it is certainly a limit on how far you want to go in order to get a broad deal. But at the same time, the state-church case is appropriate to the degrees for at least a settlement that goes beyond what the government parties have by the majority in the Grand Duchy, because it's absolutely necessary because we're talking about constitutional changes, and because it's a matter that in its nature makes it good with width. Then we all have to be willing to compromise, everyone has to be willing to seek solutions, and I believe that when you look at the positions of the different parties, there is a basis for reaching a broad agreement on the state church in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e443	So we go to what's probably going to be the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e446	I'm going to use my measured minutes with the Prime Minister to address the spring salary line and deal with the difficult AFP issues. After all, both pension issues and as part of the government’s handling of AFP issues in spring’s wage settlement are anchored in a pension settlement on the Stortinget. It was a broad settlement and a necessary settlement, because it ensures stability and firmness around such a long-term and important issue for many, many years to come. So here we see some of the ritual game before negotiation. These are unusually important negotiations, I have to say also in addition to the AFP, because this spring's wage settlement can be quite crucial because we can take care of the good conditions that we have in the Norwegian labour market now, with low unemployment. There is therefore a high level of responsibility for the parties, including for the Government’s contribution. I realize that. I have also not intended to deprive the Prime Minister of the necessary space for action he needs to meet this, by taking note of any situation here in this room. But we must be able to say that since there is a broad pension settlement, it is also a slightly different parliamentary basis for dealing with AFP issues than it is with others. Therefore I follow with a very sharp eye what is said and written. I have registered that the Prime Minister says that there will be at least as good an AFP scheme as it is today. I fully agree that this is the basis for the AFP agreement. With adjustments to AFP performances, combined with great access to making money beside, it is not only a little better, but a much better AFP scheme, and I would say more attractive too. I see that some of the parties are talking about that here there is a basis for having an unchanged AFP scheme. It is incompatible with the existing pension agreement. And then I see that LO's leader picks out some cryptic words: at today's level. I'm not going to ask the Prime Minister to interpret this, but I'm just going to ask him to give insurance that the pension agreement is fixed in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e459	I agree with all that Mr Sponheim has just said. At least I have to think carefully about whether there is something I disagree with. I don't think so. I agree with that approach that the crucial thing here is that we can get an equally good or even at least an equally good AFP scheme. But that doesn't mean it's going to be equal to today's, because that's not possible, and that's not right either. The current AFP scheme fills in with the fact that there are zero pension entitlements from 62 to 67 years in the population. Now we're getting a whole new people's interest, where you can earn retirement from 62 years of age in popular fear, and then it's clear that then the AFP has to be different. I believe that it can be a very good arrangement, but it will be different from today's. That is, of course, you can make computational examples, where someone comes out better or worse, a little bit depending on what assumptions you're making. Overall, I still believe that we can safely say that it is as good, and in many ways better. But it'll be a little bit theoretical before you actually get numbers and concrete bets on the table. I think that this process is well served by the fact that we get numbers and rates on the table in the negotiations between the social partners, where the state has previously been involved in financing the AFP. In the pension agreement, we say that we will contribute to this also in the continuation. What we're saying in the pension agreement is that the government will invite the social partners to a broad process of designing how we adapt the AFP. In it it is that there must be dialogue. Then there shall be negotiations between the parties in addition. That's at the point of intersection we have to find a good solution that ensures the 62-year-olds, and that secures the working line. I think it's possible, but it's demanding. That is why the demanding negotiations we are now facing are.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e472	I agree that this is possible, but I would like to be quite categorical on my part that having an unchanged AFP is not compatible with this pension agreement, because it is a breach of the working line. I do not even want to touch on the debate that seems to have arisen that life expectancy should not affect retirement benefits in the future. So that's kind of the basis for everything we've been talking about, gone. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity in advance of the talks, negotiations and debates to be on this, to express concern over some of the parties' - and I am not talking about the Prime Minister's argument. It's about what I feel as something contempt for the role of Biggest in this. Once upon a time, this is our elected assembly. If one does not respect the importance of it in a democracy, it should at least be accepted that it is the Grand Duchy which is the granting authority and which provides the necessary legal protection provided by the AFP system. Therefore, I must say that on behalf of the Storting I am concerned about the somewhat contemptuous tone that some of the parties express in relation to the decision of the Storting. I would like to stress that it is firm, and we do not have any weapons other than the pulpit in Stortinget, and it will be used if not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e479	I'm concerned, and that's in line with what Sponheim's representative says, that what we must now try to do, not just is a broad party political settlement about retirement, but what I would call a national settlement. That means that what we're going to do is we're going to take care of the party-political agreement. And we're going to try to get the parties to stand behind the deal. That is what will really be negotiated in the context of the AFP negotiations. People's Security is something the Bighold grants and rules over. While the AFP is a system that has been created at the intersection of organisations and the Stortinget, by being negotiated by the parties, governments of different political colours have been introduced and asked for contributions through income policy cooperation. Therefore, the AFP is more the result of tripartite cooperation. I hope -- it's demanding -- that we come up with a solution during the spring that makes the parties agree on an amended AFP, which the Government can put behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e486	There will be follow-up questions - first André N. Skelstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e489	I am uncertain whether the well-chosen words that follow fell under one of the dialogues pointed out by the Prime Minister: ‘Jens, if you ensure the continuation of the AFP at today’s level, I can promise that we will help you to be re-elected.’ That's what LO's leading Roar Flåthen said. I take it for granted that everyone in this room has our loyalty here. Then I just wonder if the Prime Minister can assure me that his government's loyalty is also here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e502	The answer to that is obviously yes. If you are prime minister in a parliamentary system, you are dependent on the confidence of the majority in the Stortinget - not necessarily from all parties in the Stortinget all the time, but at least from a majority all the time. So it's clear. What I feel is a more complicated question is the question of how the Storting and the Government deal with the parties negotiating solutions that require state contributions. Therefore, there is a close dialogue between the parties and the Government. In fact, it is the pension agreement on which it is based, because in the wholesale communications to which the parties subscribe, the Government invites the social partners to a broad process of designing an adapted contractual pension scheme. It's the broad process we're now in, which means we have to talk to the parties to find a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e509	Robert Eriksson - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e512	It is also true that there are very many workers today who do not have the opportunity to obtain the AFP, but who are affected by the new pension reform, which the Government, with a broad majority behind them, is about to release. Let's start with an example of a year-old bus driver from 1963, who works for 42 years, and who doesn't have the right to an AFP, who is totally exhausted after 42 years, when he's 64. He/she will, in accordance with the new regulatory principles to which it is added and with the new system, draw a pension from popular security under what a minimum pensioner has today. How can the Prime Minister take delight in such a reform, and how can the Prime Minister explain this and feel that this is fair and solidarity?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e519	A simple answer to those who don't have the AFP is that they organize and make collective agreements. They'll get the AFP. The contractual pension is a contractual arrangement that the social partners have worked for. The working party has been for the AFP all along. We have supported this arrangement, and the majority of the parties here on the Storting have been for the AFP. The progress party has been against the AFP, and then it has been a straightforward matter in itself. But the majority here on Stortinget has been for the AFP as a contractual arrangement. I believe that people should be able to get rid of as 62-year-olds in a good and worthy way, and we should ensure that in the future as well. We have to make a clear distinction between those who have the AFP today and those who don't have the AFP. For those who have the AFP, I think we should ensure an equally good order. But there may be examples of people who get something more, and for example. people who get something smaller. That's the concrete discussion we're about to discuss with the parties. So it's those who don't have the AFP today, they get something more than today, because today they don't get anything, they have to wait until they're 67 before they get anything if they don't have the AFP or the public service pension. They'll have a population back from 62 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e528	Martin Engeset - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e531	There's a lot of evidence that this spring's payroll doesn't exactly signify being the most beautiful adventure in spring. It is tempting to say that what you do is lie, because some of the problem now seems to be that the Prime Minister has vigorously tried to sell the pension settlement as a major welfare reform for today's economically active, and has seen that it is a savings reform to secure pensions for future generations, namely our children and grandchildren. The pension settlement is a very fragile political building, where all parties, minus the Progress Party, stretched far and took responsibility for ten years of hard political work. I am concerned to hear if the Prime Minister can say a little about how he thinks that the contact with the Storting should be. In fact, there is a tripartite relationship between the social partners and the government, but at the same time, there is also a relationship with the settlement partners. How is the Prime Minister prepared to take care of what is going to happen to spring in relation to us who are the settlement partners in the pension settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e536	I am absolutely sure that we will be able to find forms of contact with the Storting, which means that the parties involved in the pension agreement feel that we have a necessary dialogue with them. But there is a difficult situation when there are negotiations between the social partners. They may do as they have done in the past, that they will address us in a negotiating inquiry. It's a little difficult when we don't know what they want to talk about, to have a broad process before we know what the parties want to ask the government about. We'll get back to it when we see what they're actually asking for. Otherwise, I believe that the pension reform is a welfare reform, because we remove the minimum pension trap, so that far more women and others with low income get supplementary pension, and we ensure that it is possible to work alongside the pension without shortening it, as many pensioners experience today if they have some income next to the pension. They should be free to work alongside, and the labourers get more. Today you get zero extra pension credits for all work beyond 40 years. With the new system, you'll get full earnings for the time you work after you've been working for 40 years. It is an important welfare reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e543	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e546	The debate has made me somewhat uncertain. Should not LO members also show solidarity and share restraint? And why do they need special treatment? So the spring paycheck and the AFP. A two-track solution has been launched, where the wearers can go off when they are 62 years old with a pension similar to today's scheme, without the possibility to combine pensions and work without curtailment. If such a track becomes attractive economically, most people can choose it, and then we are equidistant, and far away from the line of work laid down in the pension agreement, which I hope is firm. Does the Prime Minister regard such a two-track solution as a possible solution at all? And in this case will it be possible to get a design that really makes it a system that only a minority of employees will actually choose?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e555	Let me just remind you that a contractual pension was introduced at the end of the 1980s as a scheme for those who had a collective agreement. It's negotiated, and it's clear that there's something you have if you have a collective agreement and are trade-unioned - not only in LO, but also in other organisations - but you don't have if you're not a trade union. This has been the case for 20 years, and this will continue to be the case under the pension agreement, because the AFP will continue to be a scheme for those who have a contract, not for those who do not have a contract and are not organised. The question is how the AFP should be in the future, not whether it should be an arrangement for them with agreements and that are organised. I'm also a strong supporter of the AFP, because I think there are a lot of people who can't stand at work until they're 67, which is the age limit in the population's fear. That's why we need something before 67 years, and I think it's going to be completely possible to get rid of as a 62-year-old in a good and worthy way as well. Then we discuss how we're going to get into a system that allows us to work freely next door, have zero abbreviation if you go off with the AFP, but maybe want to take a guard and do a little bit of work next door. I do not think the two-track model is as good as the model we have outlined in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e564	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e570	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 3, 4 and 6 from Bård Hoksrud, Anne Margrethe Larsen and Gunnar Gundersen, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment and Development, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left. Questions 14, 15 and 16 from the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Inge Wohnning and Gunvald Ludvigsen, respectively, to the Minister of Health and Health, are postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e586	‘More than 100000 Norwegian men and women have served in various international operations that Norway has been engaged in since World War II. It's talking about 5-10 pst. by repatriated soldiers, the consequences of serving in war zones are severe. In the last few weeks, some of these veterans have been standing up in the media and telling us what the UN mission has done to their lives. What will the Council of State do to ensure that this group is now provided with qualified medical assistance for its sensitisers and other necessary assistance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e598	Ever since our government joined, we have been concerned with the rights and the offer of the Defence veterans. We have put in place a number of concrete measures both to strengthen the rights of the veterans and the offer offered by the Defense. In addition, we have put in place a broad effort to identify the need to further improve the arrangements for the veterans. It is the civil health service that has the legal responsibility to provide health services to the veterans. But at the same time, the defense has a moral responsibility for the veterans getting the follow-up they need, before, during and after the end of service. The defense offers psychiatric and psychological health services to veterans for one year after they have completed the service. The government is now investigating the legality of this right. This is part of the extensive legislative work of the Government to strengthen the rights of the veterans. Another proposal we are now considering is the introduction of legal objective liability, while also investigating other possible forms of compensation. Psychiatric and psychological follow-up of the veterans takes place under the auspices of the Defence Sanitation at the National Military Police Clinic and at the regional stress testing teams. The defense has published eleven positions for psychiatrists and psychologists to strengthen this health service. In 2006, the Swedish Veterinary Administration was established as a contact point in the Defence for Information and Advice Services to veterans. The veterinary administration shall adapt the manning and building up of competences to the needs of veterans. We have also recently decided to set up a welfare and recreation centre for veterans on Bæria outside Kongswinger. It is our responsibility to send our soldiers into foreign service. They must feel confident that they will receive good follow-up both before, during and after the service. The government has strengthened this follow-up, and I want to say that a lot has happened in a short time when it comes to focusing on the veterans and the follow-up responsibility towards them. At the same time, this is an area on which this government continues to focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e611	I thank the Minister for the answer. It is very positive that so many different measures have been taken, not least in view of the future, but I am thinking especially of the veterans who have now stood up. A good part of them has not received enough help within the civil system. We are also aware that, with regard to some of the psychological sensitivities, perhaps also the physical, there is not enough competence in the civil health system to capture and perhaps understand what has actually been going on, for example. War dreams. What will the Council of State do for these veterans, in fact, in terms of help, so that they can be met with understanding, help and insight, something that the civil health system does not involve today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e620	It is an important theme for the Davøy representative to address. It is important that we be able to offer those who have been injured, the help and support they need. Here's a lot of relationships coming in. One is that civil health is given adequate competence. They may, among other things: through the cooperation between the Defence and Civil Health Service. But it is also important that the peer support work done by the United Nations veterans, and the work also done by other organisations, reaches out to those who need it - and perhaps also helps towards health care. We know that we can't reach everyone. It might say something - as the questioner himself took up - when there are 100,000 who have been in international operations, and a total of 30,000 who have been in the UN service in UNIFIL. So there's a lot of people to figure out. Here, the defense is doing a very thorough job, also through the new jobs we are now announcing, in order to gain a better competence both in defence and in civil health.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e629	I hope the Minister of Defense will follow this work carefully and make sure that the veterans who need help actually get it. It is a good part of these that has also revealed problems with the NAV system as it works today. Another question concerns the response to provide psychiatric assistance to all for up to one year after return. It is very positive that the Council of State signals that this will be legalized. The problem with the ‘one year’ period is that we often see mental damage coming later than one year after returning home. I believe that the psychological follow-up that you can get for up to one year after you return from a staff of experts who have things to do with war currents is very important. I want to ask the Council of State if she will consider doing this period longer, as we know that someone gets the damage later than one year after returning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e636	I understand the problem that late injuries can occur later than a year later. At the same time, I am convinced that it is important that the defence takes the follow-up ‘up to one year’ seriously and does a thorough job with it. However, I would say that after one year, the civil health service must cooperate with the Defence for the Follow-up. If we look at this from a five-year perspective, it's going to be as many as 7 000-8 000 veterans. There's a large number of people, and it can't be that we're going to build a big health care system for the defense of the country. We must have good cooperation with civil health, and we must also be able to exchange competences with them, so that the civil health system takes responsibility for both five years and ten years after the soldiers have returned.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e646	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘In the newspaper Hamar Arbeiderblad, we could read on 12 February 2008 that the defense of bisto Kolo Road Cover with the brewing of Trysilvegen in Hedmark. What agreement has been reached between the Defence and Kolo Veileck, and what extent does this agreement and any other agreements in the country have?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e655	It is true that during the winter, the defense has assisted Kolo Vei Deck with bridge services on some road sections in the Trysil area. The background was that Kolo Veilöcken contacted the defense because they lacked the bridge capacity, while there was a great need for a bridge due to a significant snowfall. The Armed Forces state that it is only exceptional for the Defence to assist commercial operators, as in this case. In this exceptional situation, there was an unusually high need for snow ploughing in the area concerned. As there was no capacity available in the Defence and the relevant crews in addition needed to drill the bridge, an oral agreement was concluded. Normally, contracts are concluded between the Defence and civil actors in writing. The agreement meant that the defense supported Kolo Veilöck with bridge capacity, and that Kolo Veilöck covered the expenses related to the assignment. In addition, the company assumed full responsibility in the event of damage. This included, inter alia: that the defence fueled at Kolo Veigück’s expense and that additional salary costs for the order that took part in the breakage operation were covered by Kolo Veigück. I would like to stress that this was actually a situation in which the defense had free capacity that could be exploited for the common good. The defence agreement with Kolo Veiläck benefited the community by breaking roads, and the defence could take advantage of the mission to train crews and command. Similar needs for this type of support could exceptionally also arise in the future. It is important to point out that, in such contexts, there is a proper approach to the one supported and that the defence is covered by the additional costs associated with the aid granted by the Defence. Normal practice must therefore be based on commercial companies themselves carrying out the tasks they have undertaken under contracts concluded. Defence could use free capacity to assist civil society in exceptional situations, provided that the costs are met. It is important to stress that the defence will not normally have available capacity for this type of operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e668	I thank the Council of State for a full and good answer. The Council of State said that, by way of exception, the Defence shall assist the civil. I am not against the fact that the defense cooperates, nor with Kolo Vei Deck, to remove the lace edges etc., but it kind of puts the matter in a slightly special light, because we have a defense to be used for defence, and we have a crank system that hires them to do that kind of job. What I'm concerned about is how much we're going to mix roles. I don't care who got help, and what road map this was, but about the mix of the role and - in this case - the role of those who are going to repair our roads and operate maintenance there. The Council of State said that the salary for command was covered. I guess that was with some soldiers too, I guess. I assume that the defense was also able to cover the expenses for these, so that the defence in total – I stress in total – had no expenditure on this assignment or had expenditure on similar tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e679	As I said, the defense was able to cover its expenses in connection with this assignment. I want to stress that it is also important for the defense that roads are broken, and that it is possible to get there. I think this situation was extraordinary. It was a big snowfall. Those who were responsible for the brewing had made contact with the State Road Administration. They had tried to get support from other commercial actors, but it was not possible to get it. When the defense had capacity, the defense chose to set up. I think with all due respect that you might have reacted more if the defense had not provided assistance if the defense had actually been able to do so, because, as we all know, it is important to keep a high level of preparedness on the winter roads in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e688	In the HA newspaper, to which I referred, it says: ‘As far as Company Chief Irene Forsjord knows, this is the first time the company is assisting civil road authorities in Norway in getting snow off the road.’ Then my question is, to clarify that I am not against the fact that there is cooperation between the Defence and other agencies: Will the Defence continue to be helpful in such a task, or will the Defence do more in defence-related matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e698	The defense is primarily concerned with what the defense is supposed to do, but the defense has a very wide range of tasks. We also have crews who can do the kind of work that this is about, and precisely those crews had free capacity and also needed training with the equipment. Here, efforts were made to relieve civil society, because there were no commercial actors available, and because the defence had free capacity. I don't think it would have been understood if you had afterwards been told that the defense had had these resources and could not have used them. Because it is just as important for the defence as for emergency vehicles and everyone else that there is a good and high level of preparedness on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e725	These questions have been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e731	This question, from Bent Höie to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e734	‘Rogaland County sent its County Plan 2006-2009 to the Ministry of the Environment for approval in November 2005. It has not yet been completed in the department and the county is about to start a new plan. Is this a treatment of state plans which the Council of State considers to be appropriate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e741	On behalf of the Minister for the Environment, I would like to say that the Minister for the Environment agrees that this has taken a long time. The Minister for the Environment also reports that he intends to present the matter as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e746	I understand that the defense is helping to clear down-heavy roads when there is an emergency situation, but I do not expect that there is such a serious situation in the Ministry of the Environment that they need the defense's help to get away from the county planning treatment. It is a little difficult to ask a follow-up question when the Minister for the Environment is not present, but what is the reason why the treatment of this county plan has taken more than two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e753	The usual period of treatment for national approval of county plans is between six and 12 months. It is therefore correct that the approval of this plan has taken a long time. The reason for this is that there has been a conflict between the consideration of national purchasing establishment guidelines and the approval of the plan by the county. As I said, the Minister for the Environment has announced and acknowledged that this has taken a long time, and he has therefore said that this matter should be submitted with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e770	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e776	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The company Unibuss took over the collective undertaking in Westfold from the new year following the previous bidding round. The company has had major entry problems, which has gone beyond the offer to the public and the employees of the company. What can be done to ensure the working conditions of employees when new companies take over contracts and can it be appropriate to extend the tendering period so that the public and employees do not deal with new companies every 5 years?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e785	Today, the use of supply in public transport is regulated either under the rules of professional transport law or under the laws of public procurement law. The principle of the use of bidding in accordance with the different legal frameworks is essentially the same. In the case of supply by professional transport law, a minimum limit of five years has been set for the duration of a supply contract. This limit can only be set aside in special circumstances where there is in practice considerable difficulty in using contracts lasting five years or more. It is also a condition that the person taking part in the bidding process under the Professional Transport Act must undertake to comply with the wage and working conditions of operational personnel at least equivalent to one of the country-wide collective agreements. Contractors may also decide that operational personnel of companies that lose out on offer shall be entitled to new additions to the company that wins the bidding competition. In general, there is nothing to prevent the use of an offer period of more than five years. In Westfold, according to what has been explained, it is useful to provide a model in which Westviken Collective Transport AS has income responsibility. This means that a law on supply permitted by law on public procurement is useful. I have no basis for commenting on the matter in question, except that on a general basis one can never guarantee that changes in public transport, such as: change of operator, will take place without problem. Municipal politicians and Vestviken Collective transport are responsible for dealing with the problems that arise. With regard to the inclusion of public transport, it can be pointed out that the Ministry of Transport is in the final phase with a proposal for amendments to the Professional Transport Act which will add to the offer of the same rights added by the Labour Environment Act in the event of transfer of business. This proposal is consistent with the Government Cooperation Platform, the Soria Moria Declaration. As of today, the minimum contract period of five years in the case of supply is not subject to professional transport law. I see it as important that the contract periods when using the offer are neither too long nor too short, if the offer is intended to work. However, if the proposal under consideration is adopted, the question of the length of the contract period will have less to say for those added to the public transport service where it is useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e806	I thank the Council of State for a very positive response. I believe that many, not least the employees in the transport sector, welcome new provisions which mean that changes in contracts will in fact lead to a transfer of business. This has long been a wish of the employees in the sector, and I think it is very nice that the government is now following this up - in fact, in the final phase of this work. When it comes to the length of the contract period, the relationship is, of course, as the Council of State said, that it is up to the county councils to decide for themselves. But it is quite impossible, both for employees and for passengers, to have to deal with new companies every five years, new schedules and, in fact, often a weakening of the transport offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e815	I have written in what Gullvåg has taken up, and in the background that it will be taken up. We also have messages from both the players and the audience. One likes to drop changes so often. I am positive that the county councils consider a longer contract period than five years, and would also like to communicate it in our dialogue with the county councils in the future. We still have dialogue with them in different venues. I would like to note that it is a theme that we can bring up with them on a general basis, but we do not go in and change the law, because it is opening to have longer periods of time with the law that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e820	I just have a short supplementary question. Is there any evaluation, or experience, of the contracts which have now been tendered to form a picture of what this has done to public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e827	We have produced two reports that have been the basis for the work of creating a system of corresponding terms and conditions as for business transfer to be added. In this material, there is an evaluation in the first report of how the system has worked for them, and in the second, it has also expanded slightly for the users, because I was not satisfied with what appeared in the first report, and I got another report, which looked at several aspects of it. There is no doubt that some groups of additives - especially those that are in a way weak, either because of a lot of questions, because of illness, because of age or other - are weakened in such a system, while those who otherwise function and are in a way strong in the labour market, will also be strongly involved in such a system. But we're aware of the side effects that can be here, and we're trying to figure out measures to reduce them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e837	The question to the Minister for Transport is: ‘In the context of new NTP 2010-2019, it is important to facilitate the widest possible use of freight by sea and rail rather than by road. In order for each mode of transport to be as efficient as possible, it is necessary for them to work effectively together at an effective point of traffic. To achieve this, measures need to be taken in infrastructure, organisational measures and financial/financial measures. Some EU countries support intermodal transport. What is the Government’s plan to develop intermodal transport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e846	The national transport plan shall provide the basis for policy priorities, effective use of instruments and strengthening the interaction between modes of transport, thus contributing to efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly transport solutions. The government wants to get further involved in the development of intermodal transport solutions than in the existing national transport plan. This work is carried out partly within the framework of the National Transport Plan process and partly running. Among other things, there is a lot of effort to build up rail terminals through the latest budgets. Norway is also part of the EU Marco Polo programme, which can provide support for transport solutions as a means of reducing road transport. In order to make multimodal transport more attractive, it is important to facilitate good electronic communication across transport sectors, both in order to provide transport users with good information on different options and through standardisation and simplification of the notification system and format. Through the development of ARKTRANS as a national multimodal ITS framework and through active cross-transport cooperation forums, Norway is well ahead in this area. In the basic material of the National Transport Plan 2010-2019, transport networks and Avinor AS have outlined measures within different areas to transfer goods from road to sea and rail, as Blackevik mentions in his question. These measures are now being evaluated more closely in the further NTP process. The government will present the NTP Grand totals for the Grand totals in December of this year. In the message we will present the Government's strategy for developing intermodal transports.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e859	Intermodal transport is a difficult expression, difficult to access to most people. But it's about having a transport network where the different modes of transport are well connected, and not least that we have transport nodes where several modes of transport and means of transport meet in common points, so that the transition from one mode of transport to the other forms of transport is as good as possible. Should not such an important framework as the organisation of better transport nodes perhaps have been clarified and decided before a consultation on the national transport plan is held? Here we talk, among other things. reclassification of tribal routes. It's only about 250 km, but it's important to get the road, the track and the port to hang together in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e866	What is called by the representative of Sortevik on the reclassification of the national route to the tribal route is a grip that is suggested from the etats' side to get a coherent network into the important connecting points, to the national ports and to the important terminals. It's clear that, for example, Alnabru and the operation of the Government is decisive for the satisfactory operation of the whole hub of freight transport. Connecting both port, airport, road and rail, as one has done in the Stavanger area within a small radius -- I think it could be about 10 km, at least a very small radius -- is an example of following planning also for other parts of the country. There's one now actually getting a proper node that's intermodal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e873	The example of Stavanger is a good example, but good actors have spoken well. Unfortunately, this is not the case everywhere. We have challenges in many other places, including: because there are many actors who may not talk as well. One of the measures at the organisational level is not least to get a strong and clear, active State actor, who can take an overall approach to putting these transport nodes in place. Lack of such is to be likened to bottlenecks in a national transport system. In my view, and in the view of the Progress Party, there should be a stronger state commitment to getting rid of the bottlenecks. We have to look at the charging structure, look at the exposure in the terminal structure, but not least we have to look at start-up support to put in place such necessary transport nodes. Where is the government's activity to get this done before we get the plan in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e882	Although there are two different departments responsible for different parts of these structures, i.e. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Ministry of Transport - we have a very good dialogue across departments, precisely to ensure the coherence that is important. We work well together not least in this area that we are currently in when it comes to Alnabru and the port structure in the Austland area. We also work well in other parts of the country. It will continue to be part of the process that will be pursued throughout this year in order to put in place a good national transport plan, which will also cover the needs of intermodal transport. I believe that we have a mass stocking behind us in that it is very important to ensure good transport corridors into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e892	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Recently, uncertainty has been created about the future capacity of the Flak-Rørvik ferry link. Signals have been made that MS ‘Sogn’, which has operated the connection in addition to the two ferries operating on a daily basis, should return to More and Romesdal before Easter. For the Fosen region, it will be unsustainable to face up to Easter and summer traffic with a lower ferry capacity than the one that has been there in the last two years. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the ferry capacity of the Fleak-Rørvik link is maintained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e901	MS ‘Sogn’ is moved back to More and Romesdal after serving as a spare ferry in the Fleck-Rørvik connection in connection with workshop stays. For the purpose of this decision, I have put great emphasis on the following comment in the Budget-Inst. S. No 13 for 2007-2008: ‘The Fleirral will pay particular attention to the situation of resuscitation in connection with More and Romesdal and Nordland.’ The budgetary situation in the national road transport sector is tight. However, I am aware of the need for capacity gain in the Flak-Rørvik ferry link and will assess whether solutions with material tenants can be found. In this work, I want to have dialogue with local authorities, including the Fosen Regional Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e913	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and that she is also willing to go in and assess the possibility of introducing an extra ferry to cover the traffic in this area. I assume that the Council of State is very well acquainted with both the location of the Fosen in the vicinity of Trondheim and with the traffic over the fjord there, both commercial traffic not least the traffic of residents on Fosen who need to enter the city - and tourist and cabin traffic, especially on weekends, during the holidays and in the summer. It's completely pointless, at least from a local point of view, to move a detention problem from one county to another. When the Storting is mentioned here, it's completely absurd to think that the Storting with that formulation meant that one should move this over to another state. It was seen that the problem of resuscitation was great in Northern and Møre and Romsdal, and pointed to it, but did not mean that a new resuscitation problem should be created. That can't be right, can it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e922	The reason for this decision is also an assessment of the time you have in mind. In More and Romesdal, on that connection, there's a whole week of feedback when it comes to commercial transport, people going to and from work, and transit traffic. The Fleck-Rørvik connection is primarily about the weekend. The journey lies largely, I have been informed, in the middle of the week. Then we think we have a little more room for action when Easter traffic is now being phased out until summer traffic comes, so that we can find good solutions for Fleak-Rørvik as well. There is no doubt that there is a need to have an extra ferry there when the holiday and weekend traffic are switched on. In everyday everyday traffic, that need is not so urgent, but it means that we need to find a solution as quickly as possible there as well. It's demanding, but we're going into that work with great seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e927	I sincerely hope that the Council of State understands the seriousness of this situation. I understand that there's also a problem in Molde-Vestnes and elsewhere, that there might be more permanent traffic over the week there, and it's not supposed to set these alternatives up against each other. I choose to see the council positively, that she will now enter seriously and actively into a dialogue with the local authorities to try to find a solution to this. I guess it can't be economic. My question is also whether it is really necessary to take it up in Stortinget every time you need a ferry in place, in order to achieve a regularity of traffic in such a centrally operated area as Flak-Rørvik and Fosen. I sincerely hope that we can find solutions that will prevent us from doing so. My other question is: will there also be an opportunity here to get a permanent preparedness, so to speak, that can enter into situations like this, for example. Do you also have an estimate in the budget that means that you do not have to resort to new appropriations to get this in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e936	I agree with the representative Lånke that it should not be necessary to address these kinds of issues in Stortinget. But when things take more than a week, it would be nice to visit Stortinget if it's an acute local policy matter, and I would like to ask the Stortinget to talk about both Fleck-Rørvik and other questions The Storing is busy. It should just be missing. That being said, this is of course also about the budget, and that I must have cover in order to exceed the budgets as debt. Nor can a Board of Commerce do, as little as one can in other sectors, cf. the last day of the debate on the budget in other sectors. When it comes to permanent preparedness, it is not a question that has been discussed, but I take note of it, and I do not overlook the fact that it could have been a good proposal if it was possible to achieve it organisationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e949	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘The Brussels package in Hordaland is a toll package that has been prepared and planned for many years. The projects, the package, have been finalised by positive decisions both locally and locally. However, the project now seems to stop in the Road Directorate, uncertain for what reason. The project package is planned to provide less than 20 per cent State funding. What can the Council of State do to get the project to be treated as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e958	I am aware that the municipality of Bømlo has taken a decision on a road package for partial toll financing for upgrading RV. 541 and Rv. 542 and the most central district roads in the municipality. The task was handled and addressed positively to the package at its June 2007 meeting. However, it is not correct that the project and the package have been completed locally. From the Directorate of Roads, I have been briefed that the Statens vägvesen Region west sent saka to the Road Directorate in the autumn of 2007. After dialogue between the region and the Road Directorate, the matter was returned to the region in January this year. This was due to the need for further clarifications and quality assurance of traffic base and traffic potential in relation to financing. As there are no regulatory plans on the largest and highest priority projects, there is also considerable uncertainty about the costs of large parts of the package. Before the case can be brought before the Storting, the costs and the potential for revenue must be clarified in more detail. The municipality of Bømlo and the regional road network of the West are no closer to the situation, with the aim of reaching a basis that is good enough for further management in the Directorate of Roads and then in the Department, so that we can bring the matter before the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e967	I thank you for your answer. That's basically what I was afraid of, because here's a disagreement that I encourage the Council of State to clean up. A number of other projects have been launched within this package, which have not been treated locally and which have not been treated by the county council, and that is what the State Road Administration refers to. I think it is quite important to hold on to what is the basis of the package and which is therefore dealt with by these bodies. I believe that the county council's treatment of the toll package is exactly the way the county council has treated other toll packages. As you can see locally and regionally, this has been processed. I'm going to encourage the Council of State to go into this one more time and see if it's possible to solve this bunch that's obviously created here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e974	I have not received a signal from the municipality of Bømlo other than those I have received from the state road authority in this matter, and I have not observed that there has been such an inconvenience between the state road authority and the municipality of Bømlo as is shown here. In that case, it is up to the local and regional authorities to agree before the cases are sent to the Road Directorate and to me. If I were to go in and mediate between the State Road Administration and local municipalities or county municipalities, I would get quite a lot to do. I'm not aware of what processes are going on until the case comes in, but in that case there's a process that I don't want to start. It becomes inexhaustible in relation to the system we have, simply that toll packages should be handled locally and then enter in their turn. I'm not going into them until they're in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e979	I thank you again for your answer and would like to ask an additional question. It goes on to say that there is a situation where you have a local perception of how the package has been treated, while in the Road Directorate you have a slightly different attitude. I want to appeal a little bit to the Council of State, because I know she's very busy with these places that take a big boost locally, and that take a heavy load on her business. So here we're talking about the largest breeding municipality in Hordaland. 60-70 pst. of all the slaughtered fish come from Bømlo. There are really bad roads, and they're taking this extra load. It's only 20 pst. State contribution to this project. This is priority in Hordaland County, and then it stops. This is because things go too slowly in the central bureaucracy. New questions are being asked that are not relevant to the treatment that has taken place. It is this appeal I have to the Council of State, and I hope that she will look at this again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e986	If the municipality of Bømlo contacts my office, I would like to set up a meeting with the Directorate of Road so that one can clear up. If there are these kinds of misunderstandings or problems that lie in the system, I would like to ask for clarification, without going into the foundation of the package and making some sense about it, because I will do that in the next round when the matter comes to my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e994	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: 'Last year, tens of thousands of local train users in the Oslo area have experienced many settings and delays. It is strange that there is no power to establish maintenance procedures and preparedness to prevent the problems. Those responsible in the media have shown that they have too small budgets. In November, the Council of State announced that she would have a full report on the situation. What has come out of this until now, does the Council of State consider that a good local train offer can be operated within the budget framework, and how will she ensure that this happens?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1003	Of course, I am not satisfied with a situation where train traffic in the Oslo area is often disrupted by infrastructure errors, this week is delayed. The local train offer in the Oslo area is larger than ever. The growth in passenger numbers indicates that people appreciate the train supply. At the same time, I have ambitions to give passengers an even better local train service. At present, the capacity of the closest to the crackdown in drug traffic has been decommissioned, but once the development of the West Corridor between Oslo and Asker is completed, it will be possible to extend the supply further and the level of operation will be more stable. After the government change, railway investment increased by about 50 p.p., and now there is good progress in the development of the West Corridor. At the same time, we must recognise that the operational situation on the railway is complex and demanding, among others. due to tight train traffic and high use of the infrastructure. About 800 trains graze Oslo S every day, while 600 trains run through the Oslo tunnel. As a result, infrastructure failures in this area have such a great impact on train traffic and users. The railway works have crews from all the groups in active service all day in the Oslo area, but train traffic is so tight that it is often difficult to get there. Hence, the scheduled maintenance is done at night. Every night, the crew will look for weak points and errors in the distance between Skøen and Suburb. In the Oslo tunnel they have effective access to one of the two tracks about 3.5 hours per. night. The tunnel is almost 30 years old and therefore needs a lot of maintenance. Since he is so important to train traffic throughout the country, in 2007 and 2008, the Railway Agency has re-prioritized resources from other sections to additional maintenance of the tunnel. The railway works have implemented a number of minor additional measures in the tunnel over the last few years, which have reduced the number of infrastructure failures, with positive consequences for train traffic, although in recent times there have been more errors than otherwise normal. I have given high priority to the operation and maintenance of the network and in this context will indicate that the 2007 clearance was approximately 239 million. kr higher than that allowed in 2006. For 2008, the operating and maintenance permits have been increased by an additional 214 million. kr, which means that the total allowables for 2007 and 2008 are higher than planned operating and maintenance permits in the current national transport plan. Even though the Government has increased its rail rights considerably, it has been allowed too little for investment as well as for maintenance over many years. We have a vulnerable situation because many plants are very worn out, while capacity is almost fully exploited. It is a fundamental challenge that will take some time to improve. In general, in this context, I would also like to say that the Railway Agency attaches great importance to maintenance. It's coming, among other things. in its proposal for the National Transport Plan 2010-2019, which is now being heard. In the case of the Oslo tunnel, plan a total renovation in the period 2009-2011, which can bring the tunnel closer to a new one with a lifetime of 25-30 years. Otherwise, I will come back to my proposals for priorities in connection with the notification of the National Transport Plan 2010-2019. I expect that a renewal of the Oslo Tunnel will make a very positive impact on the operational situation in the Oslo area, but there are also many other elements of the infrastructure that are involved. The signal and remote control systems have been an important cause of operating deviations in the Oslo area. The railway works on plans to replace these facilities with the European ERTMS/ETCS standard for the whole network. This is a very large and comprehensive project, which will be submitted to the Stortinget for the first time in connection with the National Transport Plan for the period 2010-2019. On a short-term basis, the Railway Agency has a list of actions to be implemented in 2008 and 2009, which will focus on bulging and sville change, ballast cleaning and several other measures. Ten million. NOK is set off for this in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1022	Thank you for a thorough answer. It is important to live up to the situation that has now existed in the last few months. I just have to say that in addition to the large media settings where there is a total stoppage, there are many settings and situations that are difficult for road users, even outside those who make a big look. No later than this morning, people were waiting, because there were big settings in the rush hour traffic, you had to get on the trains, etc. What I have to ask you is to accept answers that are about the fact that there is a lot of train traffic, and that there are tight budgets, etc. Is it not a responsibility of the seated management of the Railway Works and of the NSB - they have every responsibility, of course - to be able to operate the train traffic at a completely different level in terms of stability and service to customers than we see today, within the current budgets? Can we accept responses that refer only to budgets, worn-out material and a lot of train traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1031	I agree with the representative that the situation we have had in the Oslo area in recent times is very regrettable. I'm sorry to all the travelers for the inconvenience they've suffered. I also follow the representative on his questions to the Railway Agency and the NSB in relation to their responsibilities under the budgets they currently have, in order to ensure a better operation than today. Both departments, both in the NSB and in the Railway Station, are called to meet in my office this afternoon. I will set up a follow-up plan for the various actions to be taken, reporting to the Ministry of Transport at short and regular intervals throughout the year. I'm going to give a completely different and stronger lead for what kind of control we should have with the job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1036	If there is something that the Railway Agency and the NSB should be able to handle and have experience with, there are at least situations of setting and stopping the train. We also experience that there are problems with setting up enough capacity to help road users in these situations. Those who have crucial things to reach, for example: an aeroplane or large meetings must be based on other means of getting there, or have very good time margins. I would also like to ask if another process is to be set up in order to enter into agreements with large companies such as Router, which now has large bus capacity in the Oslo area, in order to deal with adjustment situations, and to make completely different demands for information. There are many people who feel that it is right to travel by train. Trains are popular, trains are great in relation to the environment, and trains are very effective in getting into town. There can be a very positive development for trains in the Oslo area if you can handle this. The more important the environment, the less we can accept the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1041	Making agreements with a company to have a ‘backup’ in case of an operating interruption would be to make an operating interruption into a normalized situation. I don't think we can do that. But working to have a larger backup system that we can connect to faster and more efficiently than today, one has to be able to do. When it comes to information issues, there is definitely an improvement potential that clearly needs to be addressed. With regard to the Railway Agency’s plans, they have established a action plan for 2008. During the month of March, sleeper insulation shall be replaced throughout the tunnel, 2,600 metres of skins shall be replaced, and 30 isolated skates shall be switched. We're going to follow this very carefully forward, so that what is now planned is done, with reporting to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1051	‘The Council of State is constantly in the media, refers to Stockholm and says that she will introduce cities that introduce a rush-time charge. At the same time, the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Transport commend the municipality of Trondheim, which introduces 60 øre per. litres of environmental taxes on petrol and diesel, and millions of government funds are promised. In the bombing around Oslo, tolls have been paid 24 hours a day since 1990. What is the position of the Council of State as compared to Trondheim and Stockholm?»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1058	The Oslo toll scheme has made it possible to develop a range of road and collective projects in the Oslo area. This has been of great value both to industry and to the inhabitants of the area. Through the submission of St. Prop. No 40 for 2007-2008, About Oslopackak 3 stage I, the Government has taken a positive view of the broad local policy deal of establishing an Oslopackak 3 to meet the transport challenges in the capital city area. The introduction of Oslopackakt 3 will make it possible to use tolls to strengthen the operation of public transport in Oslo and Akershus, as well as to finance further development of important road and collective projects. I would like to underline that toll collection both in Oslopackak 1 and 2 and in Oslopackak 3 is primarily a financing solution. Although the new tolling system does not have a reduction in road traffic as its main objective, it can nevertheless contribute to a reduction in traffic and contribute to a better and more environmentally friendly transport system in the Oslo area by facilitating the implementation of a number of measures. In the cross-political proposal of Oslo and Akershus, the parties have gone a long way towards achieving holistic solutions containing both road and collective measures, including tolls for the operation of public transport. I have great respect for this. In their proposal for the National Transport Plan 2010-2019, transport networks propose a combination of positive and restrictive measures to address urban traffic problems. I mean, this is right. There is a need for better interaction between the administrative levels of urban action to meet the major environmental challenges, and there is a need for action both to reduce car traffic and to facilitate increased public and bicycle traffic. Such a combination of measures has been introduced in Stockholm. In Stockholm, the needy tax of 20 kroner in Rushtida has reduced car traffic through the payment section by about 20 pst. At the same time, Stockholm has built up substantial public transport. I believe that the experience from Stockholm shows that cow pricing can work well, and that such measures can be supported locally by the inhabitants. In Trondheim, the Labour Party has proposed an environmental package covering a range of different measures, including: environmental taxes on petrol and diesel, tolls on E6, low-driving zone in the centre of town, parking charges at shopping centres and the possibility to provide tax-free incentives to add and run collectively. So far, no municipal decisions have been taken in Trondheim, and so I have not taken a position on the various measures contained in the local proposal for the Trondheim environmental package yet. I would like to stress that I am very positive about all local initiatives to meet the environmental challenges of urban traffic. The government will present its urban transport policy in the National Transport Plan Communication for the period 2010-2019, including an economic framework for both Oslopackakt 3 and a possible environmental package for Trondheim. I will also refer to the so-called climate agreement, Innst. S. No 145 for 1907-1908 on climate policy, where the representative has also agreed that ‘urban areas wishing to test road pricing, differentiated toll rates or other traffic regulation measures shall be given priority’ when awarding under the reward scheme, which shall be doubled in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1080	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Governments mentioned the needy tax in Stockholm. In Stockholm, collective services were very well organised before the introduction of emergency tax - or in Norwegian: rush time tax. Does the Council of State think that collective relations in Oslo are good enough today to impose a drug duty, which she wants most? If not, what concrete action will she take in this rich area, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1087	If the Municipality of Oslo decides on the introduction of a rush-time charge, or the settlement of it, it is natural that the state in such a process sits down with the Municipality of Oslo and looks at what needs to be done by the reinforcement of the collective system. The public transport we have today is not possible to think about pricing in Oslo. The collective offer must be strengthened significantly. Such a strengthening will mean both a commitment to train traffic, which we currently agree with, due to lack of investment and operating exploits over many years, and a commitment to collective provision in Oslo or otherwise. The government has made it clear that the state will be involved in financing such a venture if it chooses to go for a bid. But it's a decision that has to be taken locally. It is also very clear to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1094	I hear the Minister for Transport says that it would not have been possible as it is today. I totally agree with her. It would actually not have been possible as conditions are in Oslo per. today. After hearing the previous answer, I think it might be a long time until it's possible at all, because there's a lot that needs to be done to ensure that the good collective offer is in place in the Oslo region. Then it's hard for Oslo to organise the rush-time charge now, even though many political parties want it. In Oslo you now have to pay 25 kroner in the bombing. In the western region, you have to pay an extra NOK 37.50. If you were to charge a rush time fee in Norway - in Sweden you pay 10 kroner, 15 kroner or 20 kroner depending on when you pass the bombing during the day - how much does the Minister for Transport think you have to pay for it to have a traffic damping effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1101	There is no doubt that when Oslopackakt 3 starts to work, it will probably also have a traffic-reducing effect, especially on the west, given the new rates that a broad majority in Oslo and Akershus have passed, and that we have now submitted to the Stortinget for a decision. What bets you would have to have if you were to have a low-cow, you would have to look at the amount of time you would want to set down the rates, because the point with a low-cow is that it should be cheaper at certain times of the day. After all, there is no queue for Sandvika in the middle of the day, so you could reduce your bets to spread slightly beyond the day of the traffic that is not necessarily due to rush time. But I haven't thought about that. It's quite a lot of work that had to be done if one chose to go that way, to make a coup d'état in the Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1111	There's a short and straightforward question: ‘Considers that the decision to close the police post at Oslo Central Station has been correct in view of the evolution of crime in the area in retrospect’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1118	It's a short and straightforward question, and it's going to get a short and correct answer, maybe a little longer than the question. I think we are in complete agreement, because the government states in the Soria Moria Declaration that we should have a close and strong police force. Police shall be available in the community, both in the larger cities and in smaller rural municipalities. Accessibility is at the heart of police security. A locally anchored police must have good communication with the public. It is important that the police develop strategies and procedures to ensure this interaction and to ensure accessibility to the public. I am of the opinion that local police units, such as police posts, can produce good results if they are knowledge-driven and in close contact with the community. That's why the government's rate of development of police posts. Over the last 20 years, five police posts have been established in the Oslo Police District. Oslo S was created in 1987, Holmlia in 1995, Romsås and Hovseter in 1996 and Furuset in 1997. Former closures of police posts in Oslo occurred in 1999 under Bondevik I, when Hovseter was shut down, in 2003 under Bondevik II, when Romesås was shut down, and in 2004 under Bondevik II, when Furuset was shut down. With regard to the closure of the police post at Oslo S, which the representative is now asking about, I have been informed in the past that it was closed because of the suspension at Oslo S, and that it is not decided to shut it down. In the case of any resettling at Oslo S, the Police Directorate informs that an establishment depends on whether the police can be offered suitable premises. The police district wants to reestablish some kind of police post on Oslo S -- and it also wants the government, and we've put a lot of effort into getting it done, because it's never been in the cards that this police post should be closed -- but then in premises that are more accessible to the public than the previous ones. There is today a dialogue between the management of the Oslo Police District and the management of the Oslo S on the establishment of a new police post at Oslo S. As a result, I am very happy. This government has not signaled any desire to lay down police posts, rather on the contrary. Here I would like to refer to the pilot we have set up at Moelv, to whom extra money was allocated over the state budget in 2006 and which has been in operation since February 2007. In 2008, Hedmark Police District received 1 million. kr for the continued operation of this item. The establishment of the police post in Moelv has been well received by the local public. The evolution in the number of registered cases and assignments confirms this impression. The entry is a test scheme to be evaluated at the end of 2008/2009. The evaluation shall include the opinion of the public, the assessment by the municipality and the overall assessment by the police of the provision of services and the use of resources. After this evaluation, a position will be taken on the further organisation of this police post, but this is an experience we will use when we want to expand further police posts elsewhere in the country, including in Oslo. We have ambitions to set up police posts in Oslo -- the opposite of what previous governments have done, that have gone down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1135	The information that it's because of rioting that the police post at Oslo S has been closed - for almost a year, I think - I'm very upset. At least that is not the information we are contacted about this. In any case, it's strange that you've been able to sort things out so you have to put down a post for a year just because you have to clean up the premises. That's that part of it. At the same time, I am so pleased that the Minister of Justice thinks that police posts have something to do with them, and I agree that this must be done in cooperation with the community and, of course, with the police district. My question is, does the Council of State have any sense that the Government's wish for police posts is heard in the Police Directorate and in the police districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1142	I have the absolute feeling that we're going to hear about it, but at the end of the day, we're going to decide on that question. With regard to the establishment in particular: Moelv and the dialogue we now have in Oslo, there's nothing within our system that suggests that you have some counter-representation of this - rather the opposite. The counter-representations they needed to have at police posts had to go to the opposition in case, which chose to drop three-four police posts in Oslo in the previous period. I really hope that we will also receive support in Stortinget to establish more police posts. I think it's a very good way to use the resources in the police, because it's an easier way to organise the police's business where we haven't had a presence, and you can also get a balance between being present in an office room and having a mobility and being out in the countryside, which is also important. So we are prepared to continue our efforts to establish police posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1147	Since there is a lot of emphasis on what the previous government didn't do--in the eyes of the Council of State: I well remember the closure of the Furoset. It was the police chief himself who wanted it, precisely because he thought it was better resource use to have mobility in the major policy areas of the city. I hear what the Council of State says, that he feels that one is heard locally for the desire for police posts, but just to clarify it: to what extent will political signals go down to the Directorates and districts in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1152	There have been political signals that we believe it is important to re-establish this offer on Oslo S as soon as possible. But I'm a little skeptical about the representative's argument, that it's okay to shut down police posts on Furuset, Hovsetter and other places because it was the police chief who suggested it, and because it happened under the previous regime. But when you get a stop as a result of refurbishment on Oslo S, you make quite a lot of fuss around it and make it a wrong policy. It is, to underline it once more, not the Government's will and desire to put down the police post at Oslo S. We now have a dialogue with the NSB and those who operate the station to find suitable premises. We also have ambitions to establish more police posts - not only in Oslo, but also elsewhere. Then I hope that the Christian People's Party will leave the course they had under the previous government, where they put posts, and join us to build new ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1187	These questions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1193	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs the following questions: ‘The fishing industry is important for housing and value creation in Norway. The government has granted the industry 2 years of structural freezes, the round of NOx tax, more stringent delivery obligations, the district quota system and more subsidies to competing shipping. The Coastal Fisheries Committee recently presented proposals for radical changes to the quota system, and the Government will now have a new broad debate on completely fundamental conditions for fishermen. Does the Council not see the need for stability and predictability in the framework conditions of the fishing industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1205	Firstly, I fully agree with Mr Hansen that the fishing industry is important for both value creation, settlement and employment along the coast, and I am committed to ensuring that the industry has good and stable framework conditions. I would also like to remind you that new structural legislation is in place, and that the Government has also reached agreement with the industries concerned to set up a NOx fund. Then I would also like to stress that it must be possible to have a public change of words about an industry based on the exploitation of a common resource. Democratic governance does not in any way exclude predictability and vice versa. The background to the establishment of the Coastal Fisheries Committee was that the bulk of the population asked for it in connection with the treatment of the Finnland Act during the previous ageing period. The right-wing members of the Stortinget were part of the majority who asked for Samer and others' rights to fishing in the sea outside Finnmark to be investigated. The Stoltenberg government took over the staf stick after the Bondevik II government. We have followed up requests from Stortinget to ask this question, and the sample, the so-called Coastal Fisheries Committee, delivered its position last week. I believe it is a matter of course that this investigation is being sent to a wide-ranging hearing and then dealt with in the Government. I would like to point out that it is not the Government's proposal that is now being consulted, but a unanimous attitude from an independent selection. I assume that the representative Hansen also agrees that we follow democratic principles in the examination of the committee's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1219	I would like to thank you for your answer. Despite the state council's assurance that stable framework conditions are a goal for this government, I would point out that two years of structural freeze, and one and a half years of resolving the NOx issue, were in the driest of times made with regard to the unforeseeableness of the fishing industry. A few days ago, another government-appointed sample, the Equal pay Committee, came with its report. They had a controversial proposal for forced third-party care leave. The Prime Minister was then quick to cancel that debate, for it was disturbing many young children's parents. There is no doubt that the Coastal Fisheries Committee is also causing considerable concern in the fishing industry, and that it is fully possible for the Government - if it will - to clarify some issues, in the interests of political clarification. Does the Council not see the need for such rapid clarification by the fishing industry? I would also like to ask the Council of State: what progress is being made in terms of political treatment? Will this matter come to Stortinget during this majority period, or will it be pushed over the decision in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1233	Firstly, I would like to say that I have great respect for the broad majority of the population who in the last growing-up period asked for an investigation into the rights of the sea outside of Finnmark, and I think that the proposals that the sample has made based on the history deserve a proper process. I also want the right party, the business organisations, the communities concerned, etc. shall have the opportunity to express an opinion on this matter before the Government concludes. The Government has not yet decided on the duration of the consultation period. Here we have to weigh the need for people to get really involved in the matter and have time to express their opinion, against the need for both industry and other stakeholders to have an explanation if not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1240	I think it is a bit alarming that the Council of State cannot decide whether the matter comes to Stortinget during this majority period. So with regard to the content of the case itself, the proposal is that everyone who lives on the fjords along the coast of Finnmark should be given a new right to fish so much that it provides an economic basis for a household. The Court shall not only apply to collectives, it shall also apply to all residents along the coast of Finnmark. There is no doubt that this is a dramatic proposal. There will be quite extensive fishing, and the quotas will then have to be taken from those who are currently active fishermen, both in Finnland and in other coastal areas. It is therefore quite understandable to me that the leader of the Fiskerlag, Reidar Nilsen, describes this proposal as a mockery of those who are fishermen today, and asks the Government to put it in the drawer once and for all. My question to the Council of State is: Has the Ministry considered the impact this could have on the allocation of allowances? Who might have to take the bill? And how much would the quota redistribution be if this proposal were to be adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1249	During the previous big-scale period, then Svein Ludvigsen introduced a new structure for the sea fishing fleet without having been the subject of wide-ranging debate. As a result, the new structural policy did not gain the necessary legitimacy either in industry or in society. It has taught me that when we are going to make changes in the fisheries policy, it is to be done according to thorough processes and consultation rounds, where everyone has had the opportunity to address the matter properly. We shall also do so in this case. I am not going to conclude today on any questions regarding what the Coastal Fisheries Committee has presented, except at one point, and that is that I consider it irrelevant for this government to go into schemes that distinguish people on an individual ethnic basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-27.ana.ud1434e1254	The current map has thus been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
