ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e41	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e52	It may be too rare to say that, but in this case, the department has done an excellent job. There are only a few areas where there is disagreement in the Committee's position on the treatment of Ot.prp. No 55 for 2007-2008 on the law on control of marketing and contractual conditions etc. The legislative proposal covers essentially the same area as the current marketing law to be replaced by the proposal. The proposal also takes into account Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices, which we are required to take into account as a result of the EEA Agreement. Provisions designed to protect traders have not been subject to review but are placed in a separate chapter of the law. In its assessment of the legislative proposal, the Committee has paid particular attention to: the desire for a law protecting consumers to simplify legislation within the framework provided by the Directive to give good working conditions to serious traders the desire to make matters more difficult for unprofessional operators in the market, such as catalogue sharks, scammers and other unprofessional marketers a general desire to harmonise Norwegian laws and regulations with other countries the desire to protect children and young people; As I said, there is a broad consensus in the matter. Chapter 1 of the bill begins with a provision on what the law applies. The chapter also proposes to legislate the principle that actual claims in the marketing should be documented. Furthermore, the ban on acts contrary to good marketing practice is continued and the ban on sex discriminatory advertising remains pending revision of the discriminatory laws, which are under way. Chapter 2 of the bill includes the provisions implementing the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive. These provisions are to a large extent a continuation of the existing law, but they have led to changes in both conceptual and design. Chapter 3 continues with more of today's special provisions on marketing. This applies to the prohibition of non-contractual payment of benefits – prohibition of catalogue activities, so-called negative sales – the rule on restrictions on the use of certain methods of communication, including: e-mail advertising, and the regulation of the delivery of unaddressed advertising, i.e. «no thanks to unaddressed advertising», as we know the system that. The latter area is one of the few in this case where there is a clear disagreement in the cancellation. With regard to the delivery of unaddressed advertising – ‘no thanks to unaddressed advertising’ scheme – some municipalities have debated these rules and made their views known both through the media and in their contacts to the Committee. We appreciate the exposure shown. Several hearing bodies have been asked to reflect the ‘no thanks’ principle that you should have a note on the mailbox saying ‘yes’ to advertising — for environmental reasons. The government proposes to continue today's arrangement for unaddressed advertising. The majority, all parties other than the Christian People's Party and the Left, subscribe to the views of the Government. Of course, the environment must be taken seriously. The majority also clearly emphasises that the possibility of reservation for unaddressed advertising is made available as easily and efficiently as possible. The majority believe that today's system is unbureaucratic, well-known and easy to deal with. The proposal for a turnaround has also been strongly welcomed by businesses and business organisations, who fear that this will give newspapers monopoly in the form of intruders, and will make it impossible for small traders, for example. a local Joker store, to come out with its marketing in a geographically restricted area. Another field of disagreement is free newspapers and fully distributed newspapers. The Ministry proposes to give consumers the right to say no to all free newspapers, by extending the marketing law to publications called a non-negligible proportion of editorial material. The right to say no will be designed as a separate arrangement, and it will be possible to say no to unaddressed advertising while keeping the free paper. As in the case of unaddressed advertising, a mark or similar on the consumer’s mailbox or front door will be used. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party agree to this, while the members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left do not share the views of the majority. We do not think it is right to extend the possibility of saying no to unaddressed advertising to include free newspapers and other newspapers that are temporarily issued to a restricted local area in full distribution. Such a system, in addition to being bureaucratic, would be destructive to the public debate. At the same time, it will be highly inhibiting the ability of local authorities to market themselves. So we do not consider free newspapers and newspapers in full distribution as advertising, as other public information, information from political parties, etc., and promote a proposal to continue to exempt them. The Ministry proposes new rules on marketing by telephone or addressed mail. Several concrete measures are proposed to improve the effectiveness of the current reservation system for telephone marketing. For example, it opens to register telephone numbers in addition to birth numbers in the Reservation Register. Operators are required to check the register more frequently and must inform about the possibility of reservation when calling those who have not booked. In addition, it is proposed to require written acceptance for telephone sales to consumers under the law on the right of withdrawal. A written obligation to provide information is also proposed before the conclusion of some key contractual terms. There are still many complaints about aggressive telephone marketing and non-compliance by operators. It may therefore appear that there is a need for such tightening as the Government recommends. The proposal is supported by the majority, all but the Christian People's Party, who will go further. I suppose the party itself will explain its vision. If we look at the telephone sales of newspaper subscriptions and the telephone sales of non-governmental organisations, exemptions from the written acceptance and written information requirements are proposed upon conclusion of the contract. The government parties and the Christian People's Party are in favour of this. However, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left consider that newspapers, weekly newspapers and magazines are to be treated in the same way in the Code. We can hardly see good reasons for the discrimination against publications to which this is put. We believe that newspapers, magazines, weekly newspapers, etc. should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner in this field, irrespective of the frequency of publication. Otherwise, by letter from the Council of State of 20 October 2008, the Committee amends the wording of Sections 12 and 13 of the bill, which propose the introduction of the term ‘physical persons’. The Committee would take the view that the right to reserve does not apply in working conditions and that the text of the draft law is therefore amended. The Ministry proposes changes to the provisions on the use of additional services in marketing. Some of the restrictions on such marketing are proposed. This applies for the first time to the offer of additional benefits, ‘on the purchase’, as it is called, which has been prohibited until now, if there was no natural connection between the main benefit and the extra benefit – what is called the grant. The same applies to the prohibition on the use of certain discount coupons. The majority believe that this would bring Norwegian legislation more into line with the other Nordic countries and Europe. The majority have also noted that it has been claimed that maintaining any strange rules in this field could be considered as barriers to trade and therefore not in line with the EEA Agreement. On the other hand, it could be argued that an additional performance release could make the market more untransparent for consumers. We have noted both views, but we come from an overall assessment that we will support the liberalisation that the proposition offers. I assume that the minority, the Christian People's Party and the Left, will explain their views on this point. In the case of children and young people, there is also a broad consensus in this case. We have all seen an increase in the marketing of children and young people, and Chapter 4 of the bill proposes new specific rules to protect children and young people. We have recorded that there is practice in interpreting the provisions of the law more stringently where marketing is directed at children. The proposal implies that this practice is legalised and made visible. A general rule is proposed to indicate that children are a particularly vulnerable group, to which particular care must be taken. Furthermore, it proposes a provision on unfair commercial practices against children and a provision on fair marketing practices, ethical and moral aspects of marketing to children. We want the best possible protection for children and young people, and all parties agree with the Ministry's proposal to legislate on the principles that currently follow from administrative practices. With this I have the pleasure of recommending the setting from the committee. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 1 and 2 from the Prom, right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e134	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e137	The proposal for a new marketing law can be understood as a married child of the mixed economy, on which our welfare state relies. It aims to strike a fair balance between the market and the consumer. This has been at the heart of the policy pursued in Norway in many areas. Thus, the law does not imply anything fundamentally new, but clarifies and further develops the strict protection consumers have had in our country. I am pleased that there is so much consensus in the committee on the content of the law. The proposed legislation that is being promoted must also be seen in the light of Directive 2005/29/EC on unfair business-to-consumer practices, which has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The proposal therefore also contains proposals for implementing the provisions of the Directive. I think it is important to note that our thinking on consumer protection seems to have an impact on EU consumer policy. It's a pleasure. I would like to comment on a few points that have been discussed. In particular, the question of how to deal with unaddressed advertising has aroused discussion and involvement. The question has been whether an active say yes to unaddressed advertising, or whether an active no thanks shall be the basis for not receiving unaddressed advertising, as the scheme is today. The majority in the committee, all except the Christian People's Party and the Left, want to continue today's order. The majority emphasise that the possibilities of reservation for unaddressed advertising are made available as easily and efficiently as possible. The majority believe that today's system is unbureaucratic, well-known and easy to deal with. Many municipalities, like nature protection organisations, have wanted to mirror today's system. We think it's nice to have such an commitment, and that this exposure can be used to disseminate information about the 'no thanks' scheme, among other things. by distribution of stickers. The law proposes that the reservation scheme be extended to free newspapers. This is done through a separate arrangement where, as for unaddressed advertising, a brand can easily be set up that indicates that a person does not want free newspapers. The majority of the Committee endorses this proposal. During the examination of this point, questions have been asked about how to understand the relationship between free newspapers and free publications of subscription newspapers/payment papers. As the majority of the Committee sees it, the intention is that the reservation scheme should be equal for free newspapers and free publications of subscription/payment papers. Therefore, in agreement with the department, a proposal for an amendment to Section 17 is promoted so that it becomes clear. Thus, a reservation label that says no to free newspapers will apply both to the free newspapers and to free publications of subscription newspapers. And on the other hand, if you have not booked, you will be able to receive both free publications of subscription newspapers and free newspapers. With regard to interpretation of the current marketing law, the practice has been that the law is interpreted more stringently where marketing is directed at children and young people. The Labour Party considers that this practice should be legalised and made visible by means of its own provisions in the law, by indicating that children are a particularly influential group to which particular attention should be paid. In this context, a question has also been raised as to whether to impose an explicit ban on direct advertising to children and young people under 16. We have argued that this would be incompatible with the EU directive. However, we believe that strict application of the general clause will ensure good protection for children and young people. In addition to the general clause, a Member State may use sectoral legislation in order to obtain more specific requirements. In this context, a reference to the provisions of the broadcasting legislation relating to children and television advertising, where those provisions precede the marketing law. But I would like to stress that the main tool is the general clause and a strict practice of this. With regard to telephone marketing, several concrete measures are proposed to streamline the current reservation mechanism. Among other things, it opens up to register telephone numbers in addition to the birth number in the Reservation Register. Operators are required to check the register more frequently and must inform about the booking options when calling those who have not booked. It is also proposed to require written acceptance in the case of telephone sales to consumers under the law on the right of withdrawal. If the consumer does not agree in writing, no binding agreement will be concluded. An exception has been proposed for telephone sales of newspaper subscriptions and telephone sales by non-governmental organisations. The majority of the Committee agrees. The majority of the Committee also agrees that the weekly press is not covered by similar derogations. In this way, the majority have applied the same delimitation and rise in borders as practised through VAT exemptions in tax legislation. In this way, weekly press and newspapers will be treated equally and on the basis of the same criteria in the two laws. Thus, we have a more uniform and uniform law in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e160	I agree with the rapporteur that a thorough job has been done here. It should lead to short posts on a Friday, and I intend to stop about that. In all material terms, I agree with the proposals that lie there and with the rapporteur's presentation of this matter. I would like to limit my contribution to commenting on the issues where the right-wing views differ from those of the government parties. The dispute is primarily about free newspapers and free distributed newspapers should be subject to the same rules or not. There, we believe that by discrimination in relation to the 'no thanks' rule, we are entering into an unnecessary difficulty in distribution. We also believe that discrimination has fundamental aspects in relation to media policy considerations in general and, in fact, to freedom of expression. A newspaper is a newspaper, for free or an egg. Nor can we see that there are good reasons to treat weekly magazines and magazines differently from newspapers in relation to the exceptions proposed in the case of telephone sales. I also see that the lifting of the ban on the use of additives irritates a couple of the parties that the Right would otherwise like to agree on most of the issues. I can't stand to remind myself that the new provisions are essentially the result of an EU directive. There we – unfortunately, I almost get to say – not least with the help of these parties have put us on the side of a kind of EU work in which we could have influenced this and many of the other small provisions we – if not daily, so at least very often – implement in our law in this room, largely without discussion, largely without special reflection. It's just something we have to take over. So we can reflect on what it means over time, or what the sum of all the little decisions means over time. Nevertheless, let it be a comfort that new rules on the allocation actually also provide exciting opportunities for the voluntary sector to obtain income from dolls attached. It actually opens a whole new area for the volunteer who should be able to be interesting, perhaps even more in relation to other issues we are discussing with the volunteer as a starting point. Furthermore, I refer to the excellent review by the rapporteur and to the proposal on which the right is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e175	The proposal for a new marketing law is important both for business and for consumers. The law premises how businesses can market their goods and services. Economic and consumer concerns are not always consistent. SV welcomes the emphasis on consumer interests in the proposal for a marketing law. Consumer protection is strengthened in the proposal for a new law, and – the most important – the protection of children is clearer. Much of the legislation will now be the same as in other EEA countries. This will create safer framework conditions both for business and for consumers. It shall also become more difficult for unprofessional traders to obtain short-term profits by breaking the law and the enforcement authorities have stronger means of responding to infringements. Children and young people are experiencing increased marketing pressures in more and more media, and there is an increased need to protect children in this area. Specific rules on the marketing of children are proposed in the Act. SV is pleased that when children are the target group, the legislation shall be interpreted more stringently than otherwise. Children are particularly vulnerable to advertising and manipulation, and we know that children and young people are an attractive target group. It is therefore proposed to propose a general rule indicating that children are a particularly sensitive group to which particular attention should be paid. When using mobile phones and the Internet, it is easy to get in touch with children and young people. The Consumer Ombudsman has long wanted to legislate on the strict practices of today, including: to raise the awareness of traders about the protection of children. That chapter of the law gives the Ombudsman the opportunity to have a strict practice. Consumers who do not want unaddressed advertising may set up a "no thanks" mark. The system is well known and unbureaucratic. The ‘No thanks’ mark has been in use since 2000. Several hearing bodies have been asked to reflect the ‘no thanks’ principle so as to have a ‘yes’ note. There are also many municipalities that have joined this ‘yes’ principle in advertising. SV has previously proposed saying ‘yes’ to both telephone sales and advertising, as a consumer, without any impact on it. Neither have we now received that, nor is there a majority in this Chamber for that turnaround. SV will therefore follow developments for consumers closely to see if further legislative constraints are needed in the future. The new marketing law has a clear intention of protecting consumers from aggressive and close advertising. As consumers, we should be able to reserve ourselves for advertising on our own doormat, in a mailbox or over the telephone. Therefore, a 'no thanks' scheme for free newspapers is also proposed. Many consumers are plagued by telephone sales. So do I. We have a central reservation register that allows consumers to choose. SV is particularly pleased that there is a total ban on telephone sales late in the evening and during the weekends. In the event of a sale, written confirmation of the conclusion of an agreement shall also be required. It will make it more difficult for unprofessional sellers to charge for contracts that have not been concluded. It is good, and it is also good that the responsibility for supervision is transferred to the Consumer Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e190	The Christian People's Party believes that today's reservation system against unaddressed advertising should be mirrored. More and more municipalities around the country have decided that they want today's reservation scheme against unaddressed advertising to be mirrored. The last number we've got, from a firehouse in Hordaland that's been involved in this case for ten years, is 100 – 100 out of 430 municipalities. The Christian People’s Party wants the consumer to say ‘yes’ instead of ‘no thanks’. In most municipalities, decisions are unanimous. It's mirror turning the municipalities want. Our mailboxes are filled with an increasing amount of advertising. Someone wants to receive this advertisement. They should still be able to do that, but they just have to say from. For many of us, the opposite is true – we do not want to receive unaddressed advertising. Very much of the advertising material produced and distributed is unwanted by the recipient. There are two consequences: consumers get annoyed by crowded mailboxes, and huge amounts of paper are produced and distributed to no avail. This is hopelessly bad environmental policy. The consideration of the environment is crucial for the Christian People's Party in this matter. Tonnes of waste can be avoided if the current reservation scheme is reversed. At the same time, the industry may continue to disseminate advertising to consumers who so wish. Unfortunately, the government has not wanted to introduce a reversal of current reservation rights. However, the Christian People's Party and the Left promote proposals to give municipalities the right to mirror today's 'no thanks' scheme to a 'yes' scheme locally. We ask the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal that allows local authorities to decide that today's reservation system will be reflected from "no" to "yes thanks". The Christian People’s Party supports the proposal to give consumers the right to say ‘no’ to all free newspapers. It is important to stress that the right to refuse free newspapers should be designed as a separate scheme. It will be possible to say ‘no thanks’ to unaddressed advertising while keeping free newspapers. The Christian People's Party believes that consumers should have the right to refuse free newspapers. No one should be forced on a newspaper they don't want. An overall consumer movement has long advocated a ban on telephone sales, and polls show that a large majority of the population want stricter regulation in this area. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government's proposal does not go far enough, and that a reversal of today's reservation right should be introduced. Consumers must say 'yes' to telephone advertising in order for it to be lawful. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, this is the best solution, because it protects the consumer at the same time as it opens up marketing to consumers who want it. However, the Christian People's Party believes that there must be an exception for newspapers and non-governmental organisations, because voluntary activities have a social purpose, and because the newspapers have an important role to play in society. Telephone marketing is an important part of the income base of newspapers and non-governmental organisations. The Christian People's Party is promoting proposals for the introduction of a reversal of the reservation system against telephone marketing. Unfortunately, today we do not receive support for our proposal. We therefore vote in favour of the Government's proposal, which, after all, is a step in the right direction. The Christian People's Party supports the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend Section 12 of the Marketing Act that reflects today’s right of reservation against telephone marketing.’ The Christian People's Party, like the Left, is opposed to the lifting of the ban on donations. Competitions and supplements are becoming more common in marketing, especially for children, who are tricked into buying something they do not initially need or want. We believe that Norway, instead of liberalising, should influence other countries in such a way that the protection of children is not impaired. It is good that the provisions of the law are interpreted more stringently where marketing is aimed at children and that this is now legalised and made visible. The Christian People's Party notes that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality believes it is too early to decide on the proposal for a ban on child abuse. Children and adolescents are exposed to increasing commercial pressures every day. The Christian People's Party believes it should be advertising-free zones, especially for the youngest children. The Broadcasting Act protects children from advertising in Norwegian television and radio stations that have their broadcasts in Norway. That's good. In cinema, the Christian People's Party believes that a ban on children's performances is necessary to reduce the commercial pressure on children and families. We therefore propose the following: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a ban on advertising in relation to films for children aged 7 and down.’ Finally, I would like to address this proposal and proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e220	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e223	In this proposition, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has proposed a new law on control of marketing and contract conditions, etc., to replace the current marketing law. I would like first of all to focus on and comment on the paragraphs dealing with the delivery and reservation of unaddressed advertising and free newspapers. The centre party has noted that several hearing bodies have called for the ‘no thanks’ principle to be reflected in order to have a note on the mailboxes saying ‘yes’ to advertising. Norway’s Nature Conservation Association has carried out a very successful e-mail campaign, and a number of municipalities have joined in the proposal to reflect the ‘no thanks’ scheme, many of them unanimously. In my opinion, the explanation is that the focus has been solely on the environmental impact of receiving unwanted advertising. However, the centre party cannot limit the assessment of the scheme to a unilateral emphasising of one argument — an argument for the environment for which we would also contest the effect. We believe it is essential to balance different considerations in order to determine what will ultimately benefit consumers the most. The proposal for a turnaround has also been strongly welcomed by businesses and business organisations, who fear that this will give newspapers monopoly in the form of intruders and make it impossible for small traders, for example. a local Joker store, to come out with their marketing in a geographically limited area. The centre party is clear that the need for advertising would not disappear even if a turnaround to ‘yes’ to advertising was introduced. The market forces are so strong and so fast to change that unaddressed advertising would quickly fill the newspapers with even thicker intensities than what we see today. In my opinion, it would be naive to think that that would not happen. Even with a relatively modest reservation today, we already see evidence that large chains for security use both unaddressed advertising and intruders to ensure that the advertising reaches most. Care for the environment will be much more effective through a reduction in consumption in general. For me, it becomes a cross of thought when I see what's being discarded from completely usable things. I say this with experience as a board representative for an inter-municipal renovation company. My call will be to start at an end where it is realistic to get a greater visible environmental benefit. After an overall assessment of all aspects of the case, the central party believes that it would be more reasonable to continue today's arrangement regarding unaddressed advertising. This does not mean that we do not take the environment seriously. We stress that the possibility of reserving against unaddressed advertising should be made as accessible, simple and effective as possible. The current system is unbureaucratic, well-known and easy to deal with. Municipalities can themselves help to reduce unwanted distribution of advertising through additional information measures on the ‘no thanks’ system and through their own distribution of stickers. It is also striking that so many local authorities unanimously voted in favour of turning the mirror without asking questions as to whether all the aspects of the case were illuminated. I actually see that as a democratic challenge, in the light of the broad majority who are behind a continuation of current practice here today. However, I understand that consumers are annoyed by the large amount of unwanted advertising that fills up the mailboxes, but the answer to this is not a 'yes to advertising' scheme. Furthermore, it is positive that the Ministry also proposes to give consumers the right to say ‘no’ to all types of free newspapers, by extending the marketing law to publications with ‘a not insignificant proportion of editorial material’. The right to say no will be designed as a separate arrangement and it will be possible to say ‘no’ to unaddressed advertising while keeping the free paper. As in the case of unaddressed advertising, a mark or similar on the consumer’s mailbox and/or front door will be an adequate indication that he does not wish to receive a free newspaper. As is known under the current rules, it is not possible to book against the free newspapers, and many consumers are forced on products they do not want. Finally, I just want to briefly mention the aggressive marketing with which children and young people are bombarded. Since the EEA Agreement prevents the use of the Marketing Act as a tool to stop unwanted advertising aimed at this group, I expect the Ministry to come back with proposals for regulation, for example. provided for in sectoral legislation of the Ministry of Culture and the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e255	With regard to the marketing law, which we are dealing with here today, there is really quite a broad consensus on most things, but the big disagreement I think is really quite striking. The central party, which believes that the wit is evenly distributed, thought that it was a democratic challenge that there were local government officials who meant something other than the government, and it is striking that they have taken those positions. The Labour Party says it's nice that there's a political debate, but they don't care what everyone says. 100 municipalities, from Oslo to Utsira, from Lindesnes to Alta, say they want a "yes thanks" scheme for the 85 000 tons of advertising that rush into our mailboxes. There's nothing worth in this room. There's a survey that shows that 80 pst. is either very or quite positive to such a scheme. There is nothing worth in this room either. I can see that there are arguments for and against both ‘yes’ schemes and ‘no thanks’ schemes, but I do not understand why there are any arguments against the proposal that we have put forward in this case, where it is a matter of giving the municipalities the power that the municipalities have requested. We are not in favour of a 'yes' or a 'no thanks' scheme, but we believe that it is possible to delegate that power to the municipalities. The reason is first of all the large municipal involvement that has been in this matter. The second is that if a municipality is to decide, the municipality is given the opportunity to see the arguments for and against. If this has consequences for the postal transport, the possible consequences of the shipping will be assessed. For the local business community, it is also very different, depending on whether the option is an intricacies in Namdalsavias or the opinion, or whether it is an intricacies in the Evening Post. Obviously, it means different things to the local business community. Thinking a little creatively and trying to delegate power locally within the marketing law, I think the government might have been well off. It is also striking that parties that are usually for local democracy see 100 municipalities in complete control. The strange thing is, we see in the Left at least – and when we've been around municipalities, we've taken our local people seriously – that one has often been on the side of the government parties in this matter, sail if we've experienced that it's both the Progress Party and SV that have promoted proposals in the municipal government. But you don't care about it when it comes to this hall. So some of the other points. One is married. Then I just have to point out to the representative Thommes that there are arguments both for and against the European Union. Well, what makes you want to become a member is hardly a gift. Nevertheless, we think it is important to promise this law. The reason for this is the special consideration of children and the pressure to which children are subjected. We also believe that if there is an EU directive in this area, it would have to go to work to get special legislation on children. Therefore, we will vote against the last part of Section 18. That's the presidency briefed on. Then it's the free papers. That's what I think I'm opening up for a completely different perspective. First of all, it's a struggle for freedom of expression, i.e. the right to express itself through the media, sail if it's a free paper. I believe that you can easily regulate what should be editorial material in order for it to be a free newspaper. But to me, it's extremely urban hostile. In Oslo, the free papers are a very important part of people's right to opinions. It's a very important part of what actually makes the local environment in this city. When it comes to the delivery of low-quality free-of-charge newspapers in many places, I just have to say that for the big cities, free-of-charge newspapers are an important part of freedom of expression, and that is also an important part of the way you build the local environment. Therefore, the Left Party supports and wishes to vote accordingly. With that, I will be allowed to make suggestions on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left – what is included in the vote, and what is distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e276	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e279	There is a high degree of cross-political agreement on consumer law in Norway. I'm glad. It also shows the discussion on this matter. In short, the new marketing law means that consumer protection is strengthened, that children and young people are given legal and clearer protection, that short-term benefits are more difficult for unprofessionals to obtain by breaking the law, and enforcement authorities are given stronger means of action against infringements. Indeed, an important part of the proposal is the implementation of the EU Directive on unfair commercial practices. This means that consumers throughout the EEA are given the same protection and that traders can relate to a single regulatory framework. Children and young people are experiencing increasing marketing pressures. I am therefore pleased that we are now legislating current practice. I have also noticed that a joint committee supports this. With regard to the proposal not to advertise children's films for them under seven years of age, the Stortinget has discussed them on several occasions and is aware that the alternative to advertising on cinemas is fewer children's films. I don't think that in any way serves children's interest in cultural Norway. Children shall have special protection, but we do not support the proposals to prohibit the grant. The reason for this is that today’s legislation provides a large degree of indebtedness, but there are many demarcation problems. So if you buy a princess leaf, you're allowed to have princess-related toxins in this princess magazine, and in a Donald magazine you're allowed to have articles related to the Donald products. It's actually the law with princess hairs in the princess leaves, you have to follow the letter of the law, whereas the equivalent would not be allowed to have the same princess hairs in a Donald leaf. This makes today’s legislation difficult to understand for traders, and there is little respect for the legislation that is in place. That is why we are now bringing the legislation more into line with practice. Similarly, this prohibition has been given up in, for example: Denmark and Sweden, without leading to significant problems for the children. But it is important to legislate today's strict practices anyway and bring the law more into line with reality. With regard to the proposal for unaddressed advertising, we are concerned with the individual's freedom of choice. It becomes a little incomprehensible to me why, after the proposal from the Left, individuals should not be allowed to reserve themselves against free newspapers. Then the individual has nothing to say; you have to accept this regardless of what you think, while the municipalities have to choose for you in the case of other kinds of advertising. For me, it's hard to see the principal line in this position. We are concerned that consumers themselves should be allowed to choose, both in the case of free newspapers and in the case of unaddressed advertising, and that we have two separate systems of what gives the individual greater freedom of choice over his own doormat, over his own mailbox. The system today is very unbureaucratic. 30 pst. make use of the scheme. It's very well known. You also have the possibility of, for example: setting up 'no-tank' stickers or writing with a spirit in the mailbox, e.g. during the summer holidays. You can notice and notice, there are no limits to the freedom of choice you have. Therefore, there are also a lot of people who use this scheme. We are also concerned about this with the free newspapers, because there are some free newspapers that are more likely to be pure advertising products or advertising newspapers with a few editorial articles. That's why we think it gives the individual a greater degree of freedom of choice to be able to make reservations against that type of free newspapers. The rules on telephone sales and that you can reserve yourself against this are quite well known. That's why we have 1.7 million. consumers used by the reservation register. What we've seen is that someone has misunderstood what the rules have been like. You have reserved as an individual, and then you have been called home to your wife's landline telephone, because the wife has not booked. Now we're introducing a new rule that allows you to reserve the fixed number as such. That's what we think gives better protection. In addition, there must be a requirement that you cannot call after 9 p.m. 21 in the evening and not in the weekend, and that you must consent afterwards. There are some older people who say that they have felt cheated by a pleasant telephone salesman, and that they have accepted an offer they really do not want. That is why we now want to put in place a system of consent before the trade is in place, and that will not least provide good protection for very many older consumers. I am pleased that the Stortinget joins in the proposal for a new marketing law. The use of advertising is lawful for business purposes, but the Government, with the new law, primarily wishes to contribute to the strengthening of consumer interests. In particular, it has been important for children and young people in particular to be protected against misleading, improper and aggressive advertising. The legislative proposal ensures this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e302	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e305	From the industry team I have been asked if I have been able to say anything about when this law will come into force. My question to the Council of State is: When can you expect to see this law put into practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e310	Now, when the Storting adopts this law, we're going to make some proposals for regulations. We need to send them to the hearing, because it's important to get an idea of how this is going to be done. It's an important part of this legal work. So we aim to implement these laws during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e315	No more people have asked for the word in reply. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 77]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e333	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five replies be given within the allocated speaking time after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e342	Gambling is prohibited in Norway unless permitted by Norwegian law or individual authorisation. A number of types of interactive and other remote games are available in Norway. It is estimated that approx. 2 500 sites offer various forms of gambling and lotteries. Based on different surveys, one estimates that between 50,000 and 70,000 Norwegians have or have had gambling problems associated with one or more gambling. This backstop has updated the need to better adapt the law to technological developments in the field of gambling in recent years. I am therefore pleased with the initiative taken by the Government in this area. A number of countries have put in place measures to limit the unfortunate consequences of electronic brokered gambling, but so far there has been no harmonisation of the field of lottery and gambling in the EEA/EU territory. On the other hand, directives on money laundering have been issued which have to be implemented by individual Member States, including Norway. However, these international recommendations and obligations are considered not to be sufficient or to prevent Norwegian authorities from ensuring that as much of the gambling activity in Norway as possible is controlled by Norwegian authorities. The volume of non-Norwegian remote games without authorisation or control represents a significant and increasing share of the market for gambling in Norway. We are concerned that risk and problem players are probably responsible for more than half the effort on Internet gambling, and that there are indications that problematic use is increasing in relation to online gambling without Norwegian authorisation. Electronic transfer of payments and winnings are an important prerequisite for the implementation of such remote games. Although payment transfer restrictions are imposed, the Committee agrees that there will still be loopholes, for example: by paying over foreign accounts. However, it is likely that regulation will limit the activity of gambling providers towards the Norwegian market and that the prohibition will primarily help to prevent the recruitment of new players. Following an overall assessment, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party believe that the measures in the proposal will include a substantial part of the payment service where one has the opportunity to identify the payment as payment for gambling. It is also positive that the Ministry will continue to work on the question of how other forms of payment can be identified when paying for gambling. The same majority doubt whether the Norwegian market is large enough for a number of new gambling offers. If we are to avoid once again approaching the unfortunately high turnover we had with the private vending machines, there is reason to ask how many high-traffic gambling permits we should allow. A market with many actors also creates a competitive and dynamic environment that continues to put pressure on changing the framework conditions in a more liberal direction in order for everyone to ‘get ready’ and require a very comprehensive control apparatus. In this way, a system of licensing to individual companies, as the Advance Party, Right and Left want, will not solve the problems of online gambling. A licensing system in which Norwegian and foreign players are given the opportunity to offer online gambling aimed at the Norwegian market will not prevent access to other Internet-transmitted gambling offered on the basis of regulation in other countries. Whether a company is licensed to offer gambling via the Internet, subject to requirements such as: using a share of the surplus for social purposes and with strict game monitoring will not prevent the Nordics from using, for example: Unibet's internet gambling offer, and with a higher profit share, because the profits are only for the operation of the gambling company. However, companies that have been granted a British licence have maintained gambling offers via licences from other countries. A third possibility of regulation involves blocking IP addresses that offer gambling over the Internet. The majority of the Datacrime elections do not propose to legislate on the blocking of Internet pages with illegal content under criminal law. The blocking of content on the Internet raises specific questions in relation to the protection of freedom of expression and information. The Technology Council also points to the fact that filtering foreign websites with gambling in any case would be a little effective regulation mechanism. Game providers can easily bypass filtering by changing addresses or offering proxy solutions. These are freely available on the Internet and require a low level of data literacy. Procedures have been established in the EU/EEA area to identify, and, where appropriate, to remove, content that is undesirable and directly addressed to another Member State. The centre party is therefore particularly pleased that the ministry is already in dialogue with the UK authorities to implement measures that prevent gambling companies from accessing the Norwegian market via television advertising. The majority of the Committee considers that there is a need to clarify the gambling and lottery legislation proposed. The centre party is humiliated by the rapid technological developments in the field of gambling. This will continue to challenge Norwegian legislation in this area, and it will need to be a continuous process to assess new adaptations to close the loopholes in the legislation. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e376	In the event of an incursion, both the Advance Party and the Left have become involved in a comment on the matter that we should not have been involved in, but when you read the whole matter, there can be no doubt about what we mean. We have problems understanding that the government parties will regulate us in their entirety to prevent competition against Norsk Tipping. What's even harder to understand is that you use a very small group of game addicts as an argument to do this. This rhetoric is far too far revealed, and I would like the government to be honest enough now to say: we want to ban online games and censor the Internet because we want to direct the money for the ‘good purpose’. – But we’re not going to hear that, because maybe that brave isn’t even the Council of State guessing. What this government is actually doing now is intervening in the private economy of every Norwegian citizen playing on foreign online games. The reason from the Government is, of course, that you are exposed to very aggressive games, and that the foreign villains who sit on the other end of the web are there to skin you. And it's just the government that can protect you from it – and protect you from yourself. Fortunately, it's not like that, because most of us take responsibility for our own actions. That this is an example of horror may be, but it is the support device that fails. If the support device had not failed, these matters had been discovered long before. Last Sunday, VG had a draft of a new report from SINTEF – for the Lottery Authority. This report reveals that the number of game addicts is as high now as before the automatic ban, approx. Thirty thousand. Of those who are game dependent, 41 state pst. that they play horse or game from Norwegian Typing as their most important game. 40 pst. - So 1 pst. less - specify unregulated games on the Internet as its main game. So what does this show us? – That the introduction of the monopoly for Norwegian Typing has not brought anything good? When it comes to re-launching so-called nice machines from Norwegian Typing, I'm going to assume that the percentage can quickly be higher than 41 pst. You're going to wind up Norwegian Typing? The reason why I'm taking this up is because the numbers that the Council of State refers to in the proposition are not consistent with what SINTEF writes in its report. So you take the wrong assumptions into account, and then you can wonder what the reason is. The fact that Norwegian Tipping does not like competition is well known, and that the Council of State will have major problems getting enough money to distribute to voluntary teams and organisations is something that has been in the cards for a long time. But it might seem like you're going to be laying on the same line as China and banning Internet games. Governments are talking about game addicts, but it's fine to impose game addicts. I guess you'd think these guys had other problems, if they didn't get an economic hit by the state if they were playing on the Internet. We live in 2008, and a ban on online games other than those that Norsk Typing has will probably be seen as censorship by too many users of the Internet. What's the next one going to be? Maybe it's just that we get to charge $2,000 in cash every month, and the rest of the time we're going to deal with cards, so the government can see what our money is spent on? Or should we ban online action on goods that do not come from Norway? There's an incredible number of possibilities, and we're skeptical about the state spending our money on whether it's online or in the store. As the good liberal I am, I will vote against any censorship. I refer to the proposal that we have promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e393	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e396	Right-wing support under a restrictive gambling policy based on the strong social policy aspects of the problem of gambling. But in today's society, the ban line is no way to go. In particular, this online game, regardless of Norwegian jurisdiction, could be well available to Norwegian players. Today's case is based on the fact that technical payment restrictions should be able to underpin a prohibition by hitting the payment and thus making it impracticable in practice to participate in online gambling. From the right we have noticed that very competent environments have expressed great scepticism as to whether such payment restrictions will be feasible. Many people have predicted that there will be sport in making clever associations. It should not be very difficult to do so either. In view of the dramatic increase in online gambling, we therefore believe that the introduction of payment restrictions is more effective than opening up network games from Norway. The reasoning follows the thinking we use in other game contexts, for example. in relation to the machines, namely that it is better to have an offer within a verifiable framework than to run a ban line that is likely to be difficult to enforce. In particular, this will apply to those who are in a dependency or at risk of becoming dependent. Payment restrictions without a Norwegian offer, we think, would be like sending an invitation to all of the country's computers to come up with funny recipes for company, and that is an invitation that we are pretty sure will be received with great enthusiasm. Combined with the availability of Norwegian online games, however, there is good reason to believe that the introduction of payment restrictions could work significantly better, especially in relation to the recruitment of new players to aggressive games. The threshold for seeking illegal roundabouts will be higher. You will have less reason to put energy into it, and less reason to put yourself in a situation where you do something illegal. From this point of view, we support the Government's proposal, but also promote a separate proposal to introduce licences for gambling on the Internet. In this context, we are open to proposals on how to design such schemes, in order to ensure state control, Norwegian objectives and the social policy considerations on which Norwegian gambling policy is hopefully to be based in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e413	Already in 2006, the Christian People's Party launched the possibility to prohibit card companies from communicating transactions to online gambling companies. ‘This law will not make network games impossible, but it will increase the threshold significantly’, says Document No. 8:91 for 2005-2006. I am glad that the government is following and taking care of this. Of course, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal we are considering today. And in the comments about the setting, we're mainly with the government parties. Internet gambling is demanding to regulate. There are many considerations that need to be weighed in terms of privacy, international legislation and freedom of expression. I think most of us want to get rid of the unwanted consequences of Internet gambling. The challenge is to find the right means. Restrictions on the provision of payments are one of several measures that can have an effect. Not least, it will be important to dampen the kidney recruitment process. So we know that there are loopholes. Among other things, the prohibition can be circumvented by means of payment via foreign accounts. Therefore, a number of measures are needed which together can help to make Norway a less attractive market for gambling companies. One option is to introduce a system for blocking the websites of the gambling companies. Similar measures have been introduced in other countries. I think the government is wise to look at the experience of this in other countries, including Germany. In France, Internet service providers are required to warn customers against illegal gambling offers when looking for internet sites that offer gambling. This, too, is a measure that should be considered at home. I think many people are annoyed that the gambling companies are free to advertise their products on Norwegian TV screens. The Norwegian marketing ban is eroded by the fact that the advertising is sent from abroad in consignments directly addressed to Norway. However, precisely because these are broadcasts directly addressed to Norway, Norwegian authorities have a room for action. I know the council has a work going on here. Procedures have been established in the EU and EEA territory which are designed to eliminate unwanted content in consignments directly addressed to another country. I would encourage the Council of State to put full pressure on this work. We cannot have it so that the gambling companies can move freely on Norwegian TV screens. With regard to the proposal from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left on a licensing system, I don't see that this can have any effect, given what we actually want to achieve. In any case, companies will operate from abroad, as they do today. The government proposal is a good one. I hope it is followed up by more. Gambling addiction is a great burden to those affected and to their relatives. Now we see that the game pattern has changed. Internet games are an industry of growth. Here we have to be in the forefront. Some measures are good. However, if we are to prevent the social policy consequences of gambling on the Internet, more measures need to be considered. We need to make Norway a less attractive market, and we need to prevent the recruitment of new players.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e434	Playing games is for them all, most fun. For a few, it's a problem. Therefore, it is the Left’s view that the things in life that fall under the category ‘for most fun, for some problem’ should be regulated by the State in a way that prevents anyone from having problems. There are actually two ways to intervene technically in online games today. One is to put a filter on the child porn filter, which works quite well against child porn, but which is so easy to bypass – you can bypass it so easily from a PC that I can almost do it. So it wouldn't have worked very well with web game providers. The other way is an MCC blockage, as suggested by the Council of State. It has two weaknesses. One weakness is that it is easy to create an account from a country where such payments can be made. The other is that it is always the provider’s seagoing record of the MCC account. This means that it is the person who establishes the gambling company, who decides whether it should be registered as a gambling company – or whether it should be registered as a restaurant in Malta. And if it is registered as a restaurant in Malta, a Norwegian card will work just as well as any other card. That means that it is primarily the unprofessional game providers on the web who take such action and who are the ones who easily get through with such an offer. We have made a proposal today that I had really hoped that more people would smell. It's a combination of having a licensing system where a builds some games that are allowed to be offered online, that meets Norwegian regulations and Norwegian requirements for returns to volunteer, having a payment agency and having a filter à la baby porn filter. If one had combined these measures, the online players would have been paid over to the games that were easily accessible, that were safe and that could be used in Norwegian cards. Then they had the opportunity to establish a Norwegian gaming market online, in a combination of whip and carrot. Then you could have gotten serious providers, who had made sure you hadn't got the big losses that we see at the international providers, and you had made it possible for those who want to play some fun games online, to do just that. That I think would have been a much more offensive way of doing this. And that would have meant that we had kept the joys and limited the sorrows. I'm afraid that if you just do this grip, it will lead to everyone playing online finding the bypasses, either to game providers with other MCC codes or by creating an account abroad. And then Norwegian voluntarism has lost these players forever. That is why the Right and the Left will vote in favour of the law today, but against the date of its entry into force, because we think it is pointless to implement it alone. It would have made sense only if this had been in combination with other measures and with a licensing system for Norwegian operators online.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e445	Both the latest SINTEF Health population survey and the Helpline call statistics show that Internet-transmitted gambling, especially Internet poker, is now the main problem for those with gambling problems. It's important that we do what we can to prevent and limit gambling problems. All the experience from the game field suggests that on the unregulated games the biggest problems arise, because they are often designed to make people depend, so that the companies behind the games make the most money. I am therefore pleased that we have legislation in place that can prevent and limit the problems such games create. This law will strengthen the effectiveness of the bans on the circulation of gambling without Norwegian authorisation that we already have, while adapting it to international developments, with increasing electronic circulation of gambling. I am also pleased that an overwhelming majority of the Committee is in favour of different regulation of this offer. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Advance Party, Right and Left, propose to ask the Government to submit a case on the introduction of an Internet gambling licensing system. The members of the Right and Left make such a licensing system conditional on supporting the proposal on payment restrictions. In theory, a Norwegian licensing system may have a channelling effect, by Norwegian players choosing Norwegian regulated online gambling instead of non-Norwegian gambling. However, Sweden’s experience shows that although Svenska Spel’s online poker offer has made a good start among the Swedes, the Swedes have not stopped using foreign online gambling offers for that reason. When we in Norway a few years ago gave permission to regulated interactive Internet games, more liberal framework conditions were quickly required, otherwise it would not be possible to offer such games with profitability. The changes the industry wanted were incompatible with the desire for a moderate and safe gambling offer and therefore the authorisation was not renewed. If you want to develop an Internet game offer, I don't understand why it has to be done in the form of a licensing system. You can simply tell Norwegian Typing to develop such games, if you want. More new gambling will also make it play for more money than today. After removing the slot machines, the turnover in the regulated gambling market is now back in 2001 levels. Such a decrease was the target when the Stortinget adopted the automatic reform in 2003. I'm skeptical about opening up new types of gambling offers now, because of the possible gambling problems that can follow. Furthermore, our restrictive position is in line with the action plan against gambling problems that the Right and Left participated in and adopted by the Bondevik II Government in 2005. This Action Plan states: ‘In view of the objective of restrictive gambling policies in relation to availability, any authorisation for new forms of gambling offers resulting from new technologies or similar should be accompanied by restrictions on the supply of other gambling, unless one has good control that the problems of gambling will not increase during deployment.’ Another minority, consisting of the Christian People's Party, believes it is very unfortunate that gambling companies can advertise gambling on television channels that are targeting Norway. I fully agree with that. TV broadcasting is regulated by the EU/EEA agreement of the so-called TV Directive, which states that TV broadcasting should follow the rules of the country from which it is sent. A new Audiovisual Media Services Directive has now been adopted to replace the TV Directive. Norway addresses this issue in meetings with the EU on the new Directive and works to obtain exemptions and adaptations to Norwegian legislation when it is to be incorporated. I have also been in meetings with my British Minister of Culture to see if there is anything in the UK legislation that can prevent television channels that broadcast from the United Kingdom from advertising such games. Let's think about it. I can assure you that we are using the tools we can, to prevent TV advertising for illegal gambling in channels aimed at Norway as an obvious target group. I am pleased that the entire committee sees the challenge of unregulated games, and that through this odelsting proposition we can get an even better law to prevent the problems of such games in the future. I am also pleased that an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, seems to see that gambling addiction problems are a serious problem in our society, and they are hard hit. The rest of us should be solidarity with gambling addicts by relinquishing some of the freedoms that an unregulated market will give.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e465	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e468	The headline in Sunday's VG was that Norsk Tipping and Rikstoto have the most gambler. If you read the article, which is based on studies done by SINTEF for the Lottery Authority, it says, as the Council of State correctly said, that online poker is the largest group of 24 pst. and that the odds of Norwegian Typing are 20 pst. Doesn't the Council see that Norwegian Typing has a problem, and that you might have to look at Oddsen too? Licensing other online games allows you to earn income for good, and perhaps remove the Odds, which is obviously a problem game.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e476	There is every reason to keep up with the Norwegian Typing game portfolio to see if it creates problems. We also know that horse games can help. So we have to be aware of the regulations we have in Norway. But letting go to more, creating new problems, it doesn't solve any old ones. In particular, a system of licensing foreign gambling companies with legal offers in Norway can be envisaged. It will be easy for these gaming companies to recruit players for their foreign offers through their online portals in Norway, which will often have higher premiums and perhaps better odds. I think the way we tackle it here, by having Norwegian Typing that the company we directly control can directly intervene in, can directly change the game offer at, is the best way to combine games games, voluntary revenues and responsible gaming policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e485	The council said in its statement that no one will stop playing on the non-licensed games if you have a licensing arrangement. I agree with him. But does he think that everyone will now stop playing on the non-licensed games with this rule? Does the Council of State think it will seem as strong as he clearly trusts, or does he now believe that he gives himself an enormous chance to channel Norwegian players into other games by combining both whip and carrot?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e490	I don't think this law solves every problem. I think we have to face up to the fact that we're going to live with gambling addiction problems in the future as well, especially related to foreign games. I don't think the representative Skei Grande or I want to implement all the measures that are going to take, if we are to effectively close the possibility for Norwegian citizens to make contact with these foreign games. What I think this regulation can contribute to is to dampen recruitment, and that it becomes a little bit more difficult for people randomly or not so randomly, but quite easily, to get in touch with the foreign gaming companies and start using them from their own account. It has to be a little bit more advanced – maybe you have to create accounts abroad, use associations. Hopefully, it'll screen a part of the recruitment process. Of course, a licensed game or offer of Norwegian Internet gambling from Norwegian Typing will generate more revenue and more turnover, but for the time being the assessment is that there will also be so many gambling addiction problems that we have not wanted to go that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e501	I record that the Council of State does not answer my question about Oddsen as an important game for gambling addicts. When the council says online poker is the biggest problem, and you have to live with this, it's simply for us who have some references to Norwegian Typing, to think that Norwegian Typing might now also come up with a online poker game. I could imagine once again asking the Council of State: will the Council of State do anything about Oddsen? And question No. 2: Will there be an online poker game from Norwegian Typing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e506	We're aware that the Odds is one of the games that are reported as a problem by some intruders to the Guide, so we're going to follow the Odds. We'll never get all the way down to zero requests on the Guide. I even believe that there has been a telephone that concerned problems related to Lotto. Now it is not certain that those phones mean that it is these games that are the primary problem. Often it is that players who depend on one type of game also use the other games. Thus, they have their problem associated with several games, although the source of gambling addiction is linked to one game. Neither the previous government nor we have made any changes to the odds, but we are following developments. We have per cent. today, no plans to develop an online poker offer in the Norwegian Typing game portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e515	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 86]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e525	Odelstingen then goes to voting in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e533	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Proposals No. 3 and 6, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 4 and 5, from Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1–4 has been included in the option, while proposal No. 3 and 6 are distributed among their representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the Marketing Act § 12 which allows local authorities to decide that today’s reservation scheme is ‘returned’ from ‘no-tank’ to ‘yes-tack’ for marketing by unaddressed mail.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a ban on advertising in relation to films for children aged 7 and down.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend Section 12 of the Marketing Act that reflects today’s right of reservation against telephone marketing.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law on control of marketing and contractual conditions etc. Paragraph 17 shall be amended as follows: ‘A local authority may decide that it shall be prohibited in the context of commercial activities to supply, or to supply to a intermediary, unaddressed advertising to persons other than consumers who have clearly indicated that they wish to receive such advertising’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e579	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the fourth paragraph of Section 10a of the Right of Withdrawal Act, the following point (c) is added:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e1430	The first sentence of the first paragraph of Chapter 3 of Section 17 of the Settings will be replaced by the first sentence of Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e1453	So it's going to be over Chapter 3, Section 18, third paragraph. Here the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e1467	So it's going to be over the rest of Chapter 3 and Chapter 4 up to and including 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e1477	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e1487	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e1495	During the debate, the representative Karin S. Woldseth presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting for the introduction of an online gambling licensing system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e1502	This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e1605	The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e1624	The Progress Party, Right and Left have been notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e1637	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President assumed that the Progress Party would also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e1652	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-28-lower.ana.ud234e1664	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
