ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e67	The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Kirsti Saxi, has taken the seat. The representative, André N. Skkelstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e75	On behalf of the representatives Odd Einar Dørum, Gunvald Ludvigsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on the creation of a warning unit in the Labour Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e80	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e105	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 55 minutes, Progress Party 35 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 10 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of the parties and from the parliamentary leaders, and up to five lines, with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e116	It is a pleasure for me, as the rapporteur-in-Office, to be able to present the position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment on the climate communication. I want to start by thanking for the cooperation, which ended with an agreement in port on 17 January this year. The government's climate report represented two important breakthroughs: we got a numerical confirmation of how large reductions Norway was going to take domestically, and we got a concreteisation of the cut and action sector by sector. This is a breakthrough that is often taken for granted, and I interpret it as a sign that the climate debate is finally marked by impatience. We welcome that in EN. The climate agreement, which is behind all parties except the Progress Party, brings us further steps forward. We're not going to repeat old debates to the boring. Now we have a floor we stand on, and from here we can extend. As stated in the agreement: ‘A new international climate agreement requires a revision of national targets and instruments and a review of how Norway’s overall efforts should be organised in order to contribute to the best possible reduction of global greenhouse gas emissions.’ [[...]] With the climate agreement, we show that we are able to concentrate on important political issues. And finally, with this agreement, we have jointly managed to put in place a robust and ambitious climate policy, a concrete result of the climate policy awakening and mobilization that took place in the year we are behind. I think it's both right and important that we have ambitious targets for national cuts. The climate agreement states that Norway will cut emissions by 30 pst. by 2020, and that 15 to 17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, i.e. approximately two thirds, are to be taken domestically. Norway is about to begin to convert into a low-carbon society, and we are not going to ease the bill to the next generation through a wait and see attitude. I believe it is important for at least three reasons that Norway takes this responsibility. Firstly, it is ethical and moral both right and fair that we, as an oil-exporting and industrialised country with great wealth and a highly educated population, show leadership in climate policy. If we are to reach the 2-degree target, while developing the developing world, the industrialised world must take its share of the cuts. It is also important that we show that it is possible to combine well-being and material security with low emissions. Secondly, it is necessary that we provide clear demands and instruments in all sectors if we are to be able to produce new technologies - technologies that will not be profitable if we are just based on cost-effective solutions. Thirdly, it is a good idea for Norway to be out early in the transition process. In this way, we can bring Norway to the forefront of international competition for jobs, technology and capital, instead of going into the backyard. The progress party did not get involved in the negotiations on the climate notification. This is because the Progress Party is against the Kyoto agreement. They use every opportunity to raise doubts about climate change and its consequences. The party's Vice President, Per Sandberg, says that he expects to gain the same number of votes in the fight against what he calls the climate hysteria, as they have done in opposing a humane refugee and immigration policy. For some reason, they believe that they have greater competence in this field than 2,500 international experts and researchers in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Instead, they have chosen their own, maximum alternative voices to listen to. According to Dagbladet, 43 of the experts of the Advance Party were bought and paid by the American oil industry. On the newest list of the game is approx. half revealed by CICERO’s Pål Prestrud as retired or non-natural whites. Someone even claims that they have a doctorate without having it. After the 2001 Climate Panel report, many scientists were sceptical about the findings that had been made. Many of the questions asked at the time have now been answered. A very important conclusion is that in a warmer climate, nature appears to absorb less CO2. This can enhance the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere. Researchers have become safer because today we have more, better and safer observations that show that there is warming throughout the climate system. This supports the fact that human activity is behind climate change. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) concludes in its fourth main report of 2007 that it is very likely that human greenhouse gas emissions have caused most of the observed global temperature increase since the mid-1900s. When scientists characterize it as 90 pst. likely that most climate change is man-made, they are about as safe as you can expect researchers to ever become. This is the back cover of those of us who have now entered into the climate agreement. So it's just the Progress Party that refuses to deal with this. There in the farm, it's argued that these researchers certainly serve to create a climate hysteria in the population. Well, by itself you often know others. I have to say it's quite hairy that one of Norway's biggest parties chooses to gamble so consciously and cynically with life on earth. At best, it's all due to a lack of knowledge. But in that case, the party acts as useful idiots - if it is a parliamentary expression - for the part of the oil industry that is exposed to social responsibility and which counters the fact that politicians around the world have to take climate responsibility seriously. We who choose to deal with the gravity of the situation aim to avoid global warming of more than 2 degrees. It's a commitment. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the reduction in global emissions must start in the period 2000-2015 if this objective is to be achieved. With the climate communication and the agreement we have concluded, we have decided that independent, professional assessments should play a clear role in the design of Norwegian climate policy. We're going to test carbon-testing projects within e.g. transport and the preparation of a report, a greenhouse gas budget, in the context of the budgetary proposals. Here we will report on emissions and the implementation of climate policy. Norway, as the only country in the world, has declared a commitment to carbon neutrality. We will provide global emission reductions equivalent to our greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 and under certain conditions by 2030. Norway is going to overcomply with our Kyoto commitment by 10 percentage points. The work on CO2 management and the fight against deforestation will be at the top of the agenda in our international work. It is worth mentioning that we emphatically put the agenda on Bali last December, when we decided to spend NOK 3 billion a year on measures to preserve the rain forest. There were many who blocked up their eyes in Bali then, and few finance ministers who thought they heard right when Kristin Halvorsen presented these figures. By showing in practice that we were serious, we could with greater credibility put pressure on other countries. Deforestation contributes to 20 pst. of global greenhouse gas emissions. We are totally dependent on measures that have a rapid impact if we are to be able to avoid very dangerous climate change. Money to prevent deforestation is therefore very central. In this area, however, the agreement is the only one. While government parties assume that measures against deforestation in developing countries will form part of an increasing overall Norwegian aid framework, but without at the expense of poverty reduction, the opposition believes that the funds should be allocated in their entirety outside the framework. Another important measure is to make a new attempt to put in place a green certification market. Here the Government is well under way. If it is not successful by 1 July 2008, it will come back with a proposal for conversion which will produce at least the same results and we will ensure a good transitional regime. The Government shall also provide a contingency plan for climate research during the year. A Strategic Cooperation Forum for Environmental and Climate Research and a Demonstration Programme for New Renewable Energy Technologies shall be established offshore of 150 million. kr in 2009. Research and development on renewable energy sources and carbon capture and storage will be increased, first by 70 million. kr i revised, then to a total increase of 300 million. in 2009 and at least 600 million. kr in 2010. The public contributions to research into new renewable energy sources shall by 2010 at least be at the level of the public contribution to petroleum research. It's an important milestone. In addition, petroleum research shall have a significant focus on climate. The transport sector is one of the sectors that is increasing most in terms of emissions. We now agree to make carbon emissions more visible. We will continue to strengthen the railways, the reward scheme for public transport will be doubled in the 2009 State budget, provided binding agreements are reached on local and regional measures to reduce car traffic. It's going to be 50 million. kr for a pilot project, Transnova, for example to increase the use of alternative fuels. Car charges shall continue to be shifted in an environmentally friendly direction and the fuel charge shall be increased. In addition, Norway shall work towards the extension of the European ETS, such as: to the metal industry, the chemical industry and the transport sector. We consider to introduce a ban on replacing old oil boilers with new ones in existing buildings, and an action plan for the transition from fossil to renewable energy sources to heating will be established. Bioenergy and district heating shall be invested and a support system shall be established for the conversion of oil boilers into renewable heat. We're going to prevent it from being converted from oil to electricity when replacing an oil boiler. Requirements for flexible energy systems shall be introduced in all new public buildings and in the main conversion of public buildings of more than 500 m2. We will prepare a ban on oil firing as a base load in public buildings and commercial buildings over 500 m2 when replacing old oil boilers or in the context of main conversions affecting heating systems, from 2009. Specific requirements for energy use and supply of energy shall be laid down in public works projects. In addition, the new Planning and Building Act will provide better instruments for municipalities in this area. The government's proposals have now been presented, with concrete instruments both in the field of stationary energy and transport. In other words, the climate communication and the climate agreement will leave clear traces behind in the coming years. But that doesn't mean we can borrow back. We have a great job to do towards Copenhagen, we have a lot of tasks to tackle in the municipalities, we are an energy-loss community and one of the world's largest petroleum producers. We also have large point emissions that we have to do something with. Good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e172	The representative None Marte Thorkildsen asked the president if the term "useful idiots" could be used. The President will state that the representative Carl I. Hagen has previously used it on SV in different contexts. The President won't say which of the relationships is the most correct -- the present or the earlier. However, the President may state that the term has been previously invoked by other Presidents. It is located in the border country. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e177	There is a lot in this post that it would have been worth commenting on, among other things. that the Progress Party has not voted in favour of the Kyoto agreement. So it does that the Progress Party can't be involved and discuss this, according to SV, but SV can just as fully be involved and discuss all of NATO matters, even if SV was against NATO. So there's some difference in the way a plant facts here. What is really most worrying about what the representative addresses is the attitude of researchers who disagree with the United Nations Climate Panel, which is therefore bought and paid by the US oil industry, says Thorkildsen. It is a serious attack on researchers, including professors and amanuans at Norwegian universities. You have to question that. If the representative of Thorkildsen believes that Norwegian professors and amanuenses are actually corrupt in the way they deal with facts and science, shouldn't that have consequences - in the opinion of SV - for their positions at Norwegian universities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e184	First of all, I would like to say that there is a difference between being with and discussing a matter and having your hand on the wheel about what you're getting to. As far as these researchers are concerned, it is the Dagbladet that went through the first list, which the Progress Party so lovably excavated, with researchers who cast doubt on whether the United Nations Climate Panel is really right. There were 43 of them who were proven to be sponsored by the American oil industry. Then you came up with a new list, and then the director of CICERO, Pål Prestrud, goes through that list. He finds that about half of them are either retired or not white-collar, and that two of them claim to have a doctorate without them having it. The point is in any case: are we going to spend time discussing what we're going to do to prevent climate change from coming out of control, or are we going to spend time so doubting whether this is at all a problem? That is what the Progress Party is doing, and now the Progress Party must decide whether to actually recognise climate change or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e191	In the newspaper today, the rapporteur states that the climate agreement is far too defensive in relation to the fight against climate change. Is it not a very indirect and terrible sentence on the original climate communication that came from the rapporteur's own government? At the same time, I see the case rapporteur today calling the Norwegian oil industry and the nation for climate bandits - a Norwegian oil industry that supplies France, Germany and Belgium with 30 pst. by their energy consumption, the United Kingdom with more than 20 pst, and where the option is actually coal power. Does the rapporteur think that the Norwegian oil industry is engaged in a bandit business, which she says is part of Dagbladet?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e196	My main concern is StatoilHydro in connection with the fact that they have chosen to enter Canada to extract oil sand, which is an insanely polluting waste. In addition, we have now started to look at Alaska instead of doing what they do, for example. has received a recommendation from research teams, from the Economic Report, to start concentrating on what is the future industry also for Norway, namely renewable energy. I think it's time we took over that we had to do a lot more than what's in the climate agreement. The climate agreement is very good, it is offensive, and it creates a common floor to stand on for all of us. However, as we also establish in the climate agreement, we will have to revise Norwegian targets and measures in the future also in the light of a new agreement, but we must also have a debate on the oil industry. I think that the right is also set up, both in terms of electrification and in terms of the transition from a fossil industry to a renewable industry. This is also a good idea for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e203	I also read in Dagbladet that Inga Marte Thorkildsen believed that the climate agreement was too defensive. There must be an attempt to set Norwegian record in double communications. I had the somewhat psychedelic experience of sitting in the climate negotiations and experiencing that SV said: Don't go so fast, don't see such ambitious goals, don't allow so much money, don't demand so much and stand so hard on, because it's not safe we get a deal. And then to go out and say that this becomes too defensive, must be an emphasis that the Government was unable to deliver, as the opposition demanded. Can No Marte Thorkildsen confirm that the Right, Christian People's Party and Left would go further in terms of goals, more concrete measures and more money? And can she confirm that it was not the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right that prevented it from becoming a more offensive agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e210	If we're going to talk about what's psychedelic in Norwegian politics, I think maybe we're going to bring forward what the government of Kvassheim's party was part of, did, by going off on the gas power case first, and then coming back and then making sure that we got the first gas power plant without CO2 handling. I just drive and read the gas power book to Andreas Tjernshaugen, and there I read, among other things. what Gunnar Kvassheim sjål has done, but also what was Jens Stoltenberg's comment on that particular matter, when he found to some extent that he was not the one who ensured that we got the first gas power plant, but it was the Left, Christian People's Party and Right. Going into the internal negotiations I don't think we should do, but what we talked about in retrospect in the media was the need to discuss also the containment side, and where we challenged our negotiating partners to go in and see how we can make sure that we, for example. receive an offensive green tax conversion. There was no way at all to interfere with it. Here's a lot of sides of this story.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e220	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e224	President! It's an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e229	There will be plenty of opportunities later in the debate to clarify obvious misunderstandings on the part of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e232	I disagree. The rapporteur has now said something that is not right. It must be a misunderstanding, or it's a false explanation she gives in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e237	Then the President will allow the doubt to be brought to his attention. Erna Solberg gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute, to show what is the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e240	There must be a manifest misunderstanding that at any time there have been any other demands from the Government towards the other negotiating partners in terms of financial containment, other than those that lie here. It's never happened! The rapporteur has systematically tried to spread this in other areas. It has never happened, other than what is today in the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e245	I think it's very strange of the Right Leader to make the most dramatic of this. This is about politics. Right's leader knows that very well. The point is that we tried to get the opposition to put forward proposals for the detection of their own proposals, so that we could discuss even further, go even further than what was originally there. So the opposition was not willing to do that. We just had to find out. But this is a question for the history books in the future, to see how this really happened, and not something that we should take into the main hall. But here I believe you've put a hat on the block.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e252	There will be plenty of opportunity in a long, further debate to come back to these questions and hopefully then find out what really happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e255	The world has solved major environmental challenges before. At the end of the 1980s -- when I went to high school, amazingly enough -- everyone was in the Ink Wolves Club. We walked around and humped on strophes like, "Use our heads, we only have one globe." And graced the one who threw garbage in nature when an environmental detective was nearby! That time we talked about acid rain and holes in the ozone layer. We don't do that anymore. Political will and good decisions made us solve that problem. Think about it! The climate threat is greater, both because the consequences are potentially so much more serious, because we have so little time, and because CO2 emissions have historically been inextricably linked to growth and wealth development. It does not keep changing the content of the hair spray bottle when dissolving the climate noise. This is about much more basic things: how we produce, how we consume, how we move, and how we plan our society. That is why some people use the term ‘low-carbon society’. The climate problem has an impact on all areas of society. Nevertheless, the climate threat has one important common feature with environmental problems at the end of the 1980s. It can be solved. Climate change cannot be avoided. They're already running. But it's not too late to avoid the most serious consequences. The motto of the Climate Panel to ‘manage the inevitable and avoid the unmanageable’ must be our guideline. I believe that is the most important message from the climate panel. It's not too late. We know what to do, and we know a lot about how to do it. The climate agreement takes Norway and the world in the right direction. DKK 3 billion a year for the rainforest and over-fulfilment of the Kyoto agreement by 10 pst. will mean something for global emissions. This will provide tangible measurable reductions, which are important in the fight to reverse the global trend of emissions growth by 2015. I was surprised the first time I heard that rain forest stands for 20 pst. of the world's total emissions each year. It is a major challenge, but at the same time it provides the opportunity to achieve large emission reductions quickly. There are countries with good projects that are able to accept large sums of money, e.g. in Brazil. But there is also a need for a comprehensive effort to develop good systems. It is a job for Norway to lead the way. It's a work that's going to matter. In particular, measures can help to create confidence between countries and developing countries. We are totally dependent on that in order to establish a new, more comprehensive and more binding climate agreement after 2012. Our destiny depends on us getting such an agreement in place. That's our most important goal. The working party is very pleased and concerned that Norway will take on a leading role internationally to conduct these negotiations in the future. These major measures that we are going to do internationally are important. In order to achieve rapid reductions, we need to do a lot of what is cheap. At the same time, the climate agreement and the climate communication provide for a number of national measures to take Norway and the Nordics in the right direction. We are going to reduce global emissions equivalent to 30 pst by 2020. of Norway’s emissions. There has always been a consensus that much of this has to be done at home. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has said that we need to reduce emissions globally by 50-80 pst. by 2050. Then we have to make sure that the major countries that are now developing violently, China, India and Brazil, do not go the way of the carbon society. But it is obvious that such a goal requires transformations also in our part of the world and in our country. The climate agreement says that about two thirds of our emissions reductions are to be taken at home. The important thing is that it's not a detachment. It is a goal that is consistent with the measures we have agreed on. For the Workers' Party, the link between objectives and actions has been important. The Mongstad project is a very good example of not just doing what is cheapest, but using resources to develop technology. Some have compared cutting CO2 emissions to picking apples. It is, of course, cheapest, easiest and fastest to pick the apples that hang low. Of course we'll do a lot of that. But we're in a situation where we have to pick almost all the apples pretty fast, and then we also have to build a ladder to get up in height. The Mongstad project is ascent building. We're getting some apples on the way, but it's really not the most important thing. The important thing is that we develop technologies that enable us to go up, so when someone compares the cost of rainforest measures with the cost of cleaning CO2 in Mongstad, it's really completely irrelevant. You can't compare picking low-hanging apples by building a ladder. I mentioned early in my speech that climate change affects all sectors of society, and it only resolves if all sectors are involved. The rapporteur presented the sectoral climate action plans. From the Labour Party we will underline the importance of having such plans. Action plans are presented for petroleum energy, transport, industry, primary industries, waste, municipal climate work and the operation of the State sector. The sector by sector has identified the potential for emission reductions along with targets and measures. It provides us with a good tool to achieve the target of emission reductions in the order of 15-17 million tonnes. From the Labour Party we are pleased that new negotiations are now underway with Sweden on green certificates. If the negotiations succeed - and we hope they do - it could make a significant contribution to building new renewable energy in Norway. It's good for the climate, and it's good for the power balance. We also think that the potential that lies in marine power is very exciting. Enova has estimated that there is a theoretical potential for marine wind turbines of 14 000 TWh. There's so much pure force that it's hard to grasp. In comparison, we have about 120 TWh of power production in Norway today. This is still a few years ahead, but the climate report announces a demonstration programme for sea wind turbines, and it is also mentioned in the climate agreement. Then there is agreement on a number of concrete measures, for example: on the construction sector where the savings potential is enormous. The way we build houses in Norway, and the way we heat them, there is a lot to do. It's already done a lot, by the government tightening the building regulations and tightening the energy requirements by 25 pst. The work must be followed up and more tightening will occur. The roadmap for climate research with a number of small and large concrete actions for the transport sector is also important points in the climate agreement we have now reached. The aim of a climate settlement was just to ensure long-termity - an ambitious climate policy that can last over time, at shifting numbers and at shifting governments. I believe that we are clear, and the Workers' Party is very pleased that we got a settlement in port. There is reason to commend our conciliators for that. At the same time, it is not to hide that we are concerned about what any new majority in the Grand Duchy will mean. If, after 2009, we were to receive a government dependent on the support of the Progress Party, I, and the Workers' Party, were concerned about what this would mean for the climate agreement. Especially after the recent - I have to say - very interesting debate with the launch of the Advance Party's alternative climate policy which they think should give them as many votes as the fight against immigration, it is worrying to think about what it will mean for a new government to rely on this party. It is my hope that this debate can provide some clarifying answers to how the climate agreement stands in such a context. Will the Progress Party accept that the climate agreement must form the basis for Norwegian climate policy, if the majority of the population changes, or is this an area where ultimate requirements will be imposed? Can our settlement partners guarantee that the climate agreement is not subject to compromise? The seriousness of the climate problem requires the long-termity we have now established through the climate agreement. Let's take big, important steps. Large emission reductions are necessary to avoid the temperature increase exceeding 2 degrees, as the world has set itself as a target. 2 degrees mean major climate change, but we avoid the most dramatic consequences. We have the knowledge of the climate problem, we understand the seriousness of it, and we know what we need to do to solve it. History will bring a harsh judgment upon us if we do not manage to act. The climate agreement does not mean the end of thinking or looking for new solutions and more instruments that can help us deal with the threat we are facing. We all agree on that. However, agreement on some important objectives and actions to underpin climate policy in the future means agreement. I have rarely been so happy to join in presenting a matter as today. The climate threat is the greatest challenge of our time, and climate reconciliation takes its consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e305	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e308	First, I would like to pay some tribute to the representative of the practical approach to the party that was not allowed to participate in the negotiations, as opposed to the previous speaker, who was completely on the ground. What I'm still wondering is what you're looking at in the light of kerosene. One knows that SV, who is in government, would like to stop the bet on petroleum. It was even the representative No Marte Thorkildsen out in the media today and said, while the representative Tore Nordtun in the same newspaper - Rogaland's newspaper - said he wanted to increase his investment in petroleum, especially in research, so that one could extract even more oil and gas. What is the Government's policy? Is there a wish to stop the petroleum activity in Norway, or is there a desire to invest in increased petroleum extraction in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e318	The President is in doubt about characterising the positions of other representatives as 'complete on earth' is in line with parliamentary practice, but will let it go for this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e321	We believe that there should still be petroleum activity in Norway - of course we do! Among other things, we behave. to the Barents Sea Management Plan, which points and tickles out a course for where we will go in the future. But we are concerned that the petroleum sector we are going to have in Norway will be sustainable and will be the best in the world in terms of climate and environmental requirements. We think it's about electrification and the way forward in that field, are exciting thoughts. We are also concerned that the research into petroleum must take account of climate change. Research for increased oil extraction is good, because that means we're going to be able to absorb more oil from the fields we open. It is good from an environmental point of view, so that we do not open the most vulnerable fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e330	We now have the strange situation that the gas power plant at Kårstø is standing, while they are making money that never before. We see that the free allowances distributed with round hands from today's government have gone to Kårstø, where you are left without production with an estimate of 0.5 million. kr the day of the prize. This in turn means that if current allowance prices are fixed while the free allowance system continues, this could have been paid down in ten to twelve years. Does the representative Mr Marthinsen think that this is a good use of state resources, not least in relation to environmental policy? What is this good environmental policy for promoting climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e337	The Labour Party believes that the bet that takes place both on Kårstø and on Mongstad is important. In order to achieve technologies to help clean CO2 from both gas power and, hopefully, from coal-fired power plants, we are launching a technology that can potentially contribute to significantly reducing global CO2 emissions. It's important. Then of course, it's a pity that the Kårstø power plant is now standing, as a result of the low electricity prices that we per year. today. So I noticed with pleasure your critical attitude to free allowances. It is an explicit goal that we should get rid of the system of free allowances in a system after 2012, and I hope that we can work for it together with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e352	I want to start by giving praise to the Workers' Party, which contributed to a climate settlement, even though the Government did not need it because one has a majority in the Stortinget. I am also positive that one was in a situation that made the reductions concrete at home, despite the fact that the Prime Minister had clearly signaled that it was not so important if the reductions came home or out. No Marte Thorkildsen has said that it is an important follow-up to the climate agreement to regulate the oil industry. She has also said that it is a natural follow-up to the climate agreement to get a permanent ban on oil activities on the base outside the Lofoten and the Vestreål. It is completely consistent with the view of the left. Does the Workers' Party agree that it is a natural follow-up to the climate agreement to have a permanent ban on oil activities on the base outside the Western Sea and the Lofoten?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e361	The Labour Party is in line with the management plan for the Barents Sea that we have agreed on and that we have adopted. We're not opening up oil operations outside the Lofoten and the West Pole now. We've protected the most vulnerable areas. So this is going up to an assessment in 2010. Until then, extensive work will be undertaken to map the environmental value of the areas in order to obtain a better picture of the state of the area. Then, when that survey is available, we will discuss whether it would be appropriate to open up these areas of petroleum activity. What is certain, at least, is that the activities carried out in these areas must be carried out in the most environmentally friendly manner possible, with the strictest requirements that can be expected. So this is what we're going to evaluate after 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e366	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e369	In this speech, I really only wanted to focus on the Progress Party's action to cut CO2 emissions, because that's what the climate communication is really about. But when I hear the representative Thorkildsen and read what she writes in the evening post today, I see that there is a need not only to review our actions, but actually also to review the entire document no. The 8th proposal promoted by the Progress Party in June, which reviews what the Progress Party believes about science, what we think about the Kyoto agreement and how we want to meet the requirements imposed by the Kyoto Protocol. I almost think that there is evidence of the crisis in Norwegian schoolwork when you have such poor reading skills that you cannot take over what the Advance Party writes, but you stick to prejudices and easy explanations. So let me start with the climate debate. The party of progress writes in our Document No. Eight motions for resolutions, document Nos. 8:97 for 2006-2007 that we take seriously the warnings and forecasts of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. They're drawing a serious picture. If they're close to being right, it's a challenge of dimensions for the globe. That is why we have also set up a leading precautionary approach, so that we are going to be involved and contribute constructively to achieving the Kyoto agreement, and we have made many proposals to cut CO2. Yes, we were, in fact, the first party on the Stortinget that provided a complete list of how we intend to implement the Kyoto agreement. On the other hand, we do not agree that one should just say that the scientific debate is over, and label everyone who dares to question the UN Climate Panel, as unprofessional and paid. That's what I think is an attitude towards science and to academia that's almost reprehensible. There is today an international conference in the United States in which a team of researchers has provided a report challenging the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in a number of areas. Hundreds of researchers wrote letters to the climate panel during the Bali negotiations, and there is a bulwark of 19 000 signatures challenging the UN Climate Panel in a number of areas. A debate at Holmgang here at home showed that there are also researchers in Norway who question it. Yes, even work party-related researchers are questioning the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. I do not refer to these because they necessarily have the eternal truth and prove that the United Nations Climate Panel is wrong, but to show that there is actually a debate going on out there. We have to take that into account, and don't try to say that it ended a long time ago. A political debate that deals with the scientific environment in this way seems to me to show a lack of respect for science. In this case, it should lead the Minister of Research to settle with the universities that have such professors and staff who teach Norwegian students, because when they are obviously so wrong, according to the political majority here, they are misinformed by Norwegian students. I guess that says a little about the situation in Norwegian schoolwork. On the other hand, I am pleased that you have professors and academics who dare to question you. Then the quality of their arguments and scientific work gets to be what proves who's right. In my university education, at least I was strongly encouraged to put question marks and try to disprove even the most famous hypotheses. Because either you just prove once again that what everyone thinks is right, actually is right, or then gets one sometimes to a breakthrough that shows that it one has believed was right, actually is not so right anyway. That's how the world moves forward. What does this mean for the Progress Party, and why should not the Progress Party just throw itself at ‘mainstream’ and leave this debate alone? When it comes to a problem as comprehensive as climate policy is, we need to know the consequences of what we are doing. Are we pointing to the right causes of climate change, and is there actually something we can do about it, or are we going to use the resources to adapt to what is going on anyway? Have we done the right analyses to predict the impacts of climate change? Are we simply using society's resources correctly? In a world with many challenges -- I can mention AIDS, hunger and poverty, which are three challenges that are huge -- we don't need alternative things we can spend money on. Should we not then be sure that we are doing the right thing? Some claim to stop discussing science because action is now urgent. Yeah, don't we have two thoughts in our head at the same time? In our Document No. 8 proposals show that that's possible. It is possible to have a scientific debate, while, as politicians, we take the warnings that come, that are documented, and build a policy based on it. But it must not be that we refuse to continue the debate. Because what happens if science finds out we're wrong? But we're just going to stick to what we've once decided. Let me take a look at the alternative climate policy of the Progress Party, because what many saw at the NRK was that now we were going to launch a new climate policy. It is not a new climate policy. That is what the Progress Party promoted in this Chamber in June 2007, but I understand that many see as new, because they have not wanted to read the document themselves. The proposal, which is actually two and a half times thicker than the Government's renewable message, is comprehensive. There are many measures. It was adopted at the national meeting of the Progress Party, and it was adopted at the National Governing Board meeting of the Progress Party last year, so this is thoroughly discussed in the party. Then the representative of Thorkildsen should also deal with what the Progress Party believes, and not with the individual commentators saying that the party believes. It shows a balanced view where we're adding a leading var-approach based on today's knowledge, as well as taking over the dimensions that we're talking about. We are not so rich even in the nation of Norway that we can waste money on measures that do not necessarily have an impact. And we have to have an international perspective on what's going on. In the proposals of the Progress Party, one has this international perspective. But we have also, unlike individual claims, included a number of national measures, we have included a number of things in research, and we are discussing international frameworks. As a matter of principle, CO2 mitigation measures must be implemented where they make the most use, based on the rational use of resources and the desire to beat many flies in a taste - i.e. try to solve as many challenges as possible with the measures we put in place. We realize that in the short term there is little room for large national cuts, simply because Norwegian industry has used the best available technology in most areas. If you want to use even better technology, you have to develop it first. Looking at one at Kyoto 2012, there's no reason to believe that one will get very big and significant cut. Some small ones, yes, but not in the dimension that we're talking about here. That's why we say we want to use the Kyoto mechanisms through quota trading for all that it's worth. And let me remind the representative of Thorkildsen and the representatives of the other parties in the climate agreement that the Progress Party has been talking positively about climate allowances since the Kyoto agreement was adopted. There was only one party on the Stortinget that was negative to the quota trade in 1997, and it was the Socialist Left Party. Poor countries are using very poor technology today, because they simply don't have the capital to invest in the best available technology. This means that the potential for Norwegian action, Norwegian contribution, is enormous. It's not a way to disclaim responsibility when one points to China, India and other countries building coal-fired power stations with bad technology, but it's because we want to channel the money where they do the most good. Some say that this is a disclaimer of liability. It's nonsense. Disclaimer is if you throw your own trash in the neighbor's garden and ask him to clean up. What the Progress Party says is that we should go to the neighbor's garden and help him clean up. We continue to take responsibility financially, we take responsibility for implementation, and we contribute with technology. But we also look at where you get the most benefit, instead of saying that Norwegian action should only take place in a certain geographical area called the Kingdom of Norway. Then to the perspectives. There are two billion people on the globe without electricity. The International Energy Agency says that in China, one in the next decades will build three-four coal-fired power plants on Kårstø-size every week. They emit 2 million tons a year, as opposed to Kårstø, which emits 1 million tons. If we can do something about it, you're going to get a lot more use of the money than you're going to do what we're doing right now. And there's a lot more to pick up from the CO2 accounts for coal-fired power plants, because you can do something about energy use globally. The growth that comes through energy consumption in China will affect energy prices globally. If you're able to make the Chinese better use of energy, it's a measure that not only helps the Chinese, but helps the whole world. In addition, you can be involved and help do something about air pollution in China. Traveling to Shanghai, you will find that local air pollution is the biggest environmental problem they have, with sulphur and particulate emissions, and local air pollution is the biggest cause of death in China now. Then we also have a number of national measures. In our proposal, we have listed a number of measures that go to power generation, water investment and green certification, and we are pleased that the government parties and the other parties agreed here. We're betting on electrification of the base where that makes sense, and we want to introduce half of VAT on alternative heat sources as a permanent system, then we drop these schemes where one has three-four months to jump out and buy a heat pump and to apply for and hope for support. We want to do something about depreciation rates for energy and environmental measures in new buildings, we want to bet on hybrid cars, and we want to do something about the tax on environmentally friendly fuels. We have a number of measures in the field of transport, such as: to bet on rail, such as to bet on better roads and to move goods from road to track. These are measures that I say will have a good impact in the long term, and I think many here agree. So I'm not saying that the Progress Party is alone here. Hydropower, I think we're all alone. But one doesn't get the results overnight. That's why we're saying we're going to comply with the Kyoto agreement, and then we're going to have to take action and implement it globally. And then a national measure is introduced, because there are also results in the longer term, but there are measures that will make sense beyond the CO2 effect one also gets. So one says that a parallel has to put in place research measures. I fully agree that the market alone will not bring the research capital that makes a developing new technology, because no company dares to invest heavily on CO2 measures when they do not know what framework they have to deal with after 2012. That's where the state has to go. We've been there and we've been very positive to Mongstad. I was the rapporteur on that matter, and there was an overall committee in favour of the CO2 clean-up project at Mongstad. It develops a technology, a builds a pilot plant, and then builds a full-scale plant if the pilot plant is working. But it is in stark contrast to Kårstø, which is opposed to the Progress Party. When Enoksen mentioned this in Stortinget on 18 October 2006, he said that it was clear from the Government that the technology of a user on Kårstø would not be applicable in many cases other than Kårstø, because there is not to be a significant development of new technology in advance, one should scale it up to a clear person per year. today. And it's kind of strange that you have to go straight to a full-scale facility at Kårstø in 2012, while at Mongstad, which you don't have to realize until two years later, you have to build a pilot plant first. When you are in danger of spending NOK 17.5 billion on Kårstø, on a plant that is not even in use today, you have to be able to discuss whether there is a reasonable use of money. It's not a matter of stopping CO2 clean technology development as such, but it's a discussion about where you get the most out of this money. That debate should be more likely to take place by the Stortinget. We have also said that one should spend some of the money that one today is planning to spend on Kårstø, for a research project on CO2 cleaning and CO2 binding in others, for example. the activity of the Institute of Energy Technology in binding CO2 in olive oil, what Shell is doing, to binding CO2 in bricks. Then I think one would get a lot more result for the money in the long term than one has done today. That debate should be included, and that is exactly why it would have been beneficial for the climate agreement if the Progress Party had also been invited. When one sees what's actually in the equation, we could be involved in a lot of it. There is, with all due respect for those who have negotiated, very little commitment in it. A lot of work needs to be done. The progress party has no problem investigating things, but we fear a lot of fees and restrictions. It became relatively small, but I think the restrictions and charges that are there appear to be quite unnecessary, so we are strongly opposed to them anyway. So finally, in terms of these measures - we have national measures, we have international approach, we have research, and then we have international frameworks, like the Kyoto agreement. Yes, the Progress Party voted against the Kyoto agreement - and now I hope the representative Thorkildsen is listening - because it is an agreement with 172-180 countries, but only 36 countries in the agreement have restrictions today. This means that with the Kyoto agreement, economic activity within the Kyoto countries that have restrictions could only be moved to outside countries. We believe that this is a poor solution for reducing CO2 emissions, because it only distorts economic activity without having an environmental benefit. That's a little bit of what we see when you get as huge investments as you do in the Far East today, like, for example. China, where they don't have restrictions. There is no advantage either to the environment or to economic activity in Norway and in Europe. That is why we are opposed to the Kyoto agreement. We're not against making international agreements, but we want to make sure that we get the goals we have, that not only is a framework created that some politicians think is very nice, and where everyone who is opposed to that framework is seen as if they don't want to do anything about the challenge. Then again I have to challenge the Central Party and the SV, who are constantly pulling the Kyoto agreement up against the Progress Party, and ask: what right does the SV have to discuss NATO, when a vote against NATO? What right does the Central Party have to be involved in discussing EU policy in Norway, when it is against the EU? There are as relevant objections as using the Kyoto vote in 2002 against the Progress Party. When we promote a proposal on how we want to comply with the Kyoto agreement, we expect that proposal to be taken seriously, and that one discusses the content instead of just sticking to prejudices. I hope this debate continues to be better than the one that Mr Thorkildsen put forward. Then it's the climate communication, which was going to put the Norwegian policy premise to cut CO2 emissions. The debate shows that this agreement is not very robust when one disagrees with much of the basic one. Many ask how robust the agreement is if the Progress Party comes into government. Then one might as well ask Christian People's Party, Left and Right, who has already had several outbursts of rage over how the Government interprets the agreement. I would like to say, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, that we are for what we are for, and we are voting against what we are against. When we were not invited to join a settlement, there is no reason for us to join in and support something we are initially opposed to. So this agreement is just as robust as the agreement that was made in 1998, when one agreed not to increase CO2 emissions from 1998-2000, and it is just as robust as the agreement that was made in 2002, which nobody remembers today what it meant. The game of climate negotiations seemed quite strange to me. I have registered that the Environment Minister takes the climate agreement as a victory after the government has been pressured on all bows and edges to make concessions. In the NRK debate, which was the same evening as the conciliation, the Environment Minister managed to get the representative Sponheim to appear as an apprentice in being pompous, when he said that this agreement has put the world on a new course. Yes, I almost have to ask the Council of State to explain how many congratulations he received from the world around us after this conciliation was concluded. Very familiar, not so many have sent a letter of congratulations. The agreement and the communication reflect ambitious objectives and take concrete action. For example, the Bondevik parties required: in its CO2 list of 22 to 23 million tonnes. They ended up cutting between 15 and 17 million tons. So it's a net increase of 1 million tons. Is that a giant victory? I bet you do. How is this increase in cut of 1 million tonnes explained? Is that credible? No, it's not, because the government says it's impossible to say in which sector these cuts are going to come, it's impossible to say in what time perspective, or in what way the cuts are going to come, but one assumes that one is going to develop new technology that makes one capable of cutting more than one today knows. The question then is: in what areas has something come into the agreement that means that a person should develop something now that one in the climate communication did not think a person would develop? The only area where money is actually allocated to research is renewable energy. Then the government has to ask itself: does an actual believe that the construction of new wind turbines will lead to cutting and stopping the gas power plant at Kårstø or at Mongstad? If you don't believe it, you can't cut CO2 emissions anywhere. This increases the volume of this session to only become a 'think of a number' game. It's no wonder that the worst bend finally to make a settlement was just this goal. According to a journalist and political commentator, it was precisely in this area that Prime Minister Stoltenberg opposed. It's not strange when he sees for himself that the number can't be justified. It's also a little bit strange to see how you have a ‘think of a number’ exercise in the other opposition parties. When they presented this package of measures with more than 60 points, renewable energy was to be one of the big things - a would have a bet of 30 TWh new renewable energy by 2014, and this would be a few more with a total of 40 billion kroner. Yes, one has to get in touch, for 40 billion kroner sounds huge. But if a calculator is working out to figure out how much money you need to have to finance 30 TWh new renewable energy by 2014, with the support schemes you're using, one will see that one must have $300 billion. There was obviously no one who had checked their requirements. I think that's pretty embarrassing. The same is true of the enormous investment to be made in biofuels, where a grower of the percentage of incorporation to be made in 2008, 2009 and 2010. At the same time, one sees that researchers -- these are often bought and paid by the oil industry because they don't agree with the Government -- have taken a little hint of realism into the debate. They say that planning for biofuel production results in CO2 emissions which are 17-420 times the annual savings by using it. So it could take 420 years for you to have CO2 neutrality in the worst projects. Should not one then have as a criterion that one not only provides guarantees of origin but also a CO2 guarantee before starting to mix this biofuel into Norwegian petrol and diesel? I am very pleased that the Council of State Solheim has shown some soberness now that he has commented on it, and said that he may have been a bit too optimistic in his estimation. I hope that is reflected in the policy as well. Finally, the ringing of charges: the criticism of air travel and fuel and diesel consumption has been enormous. But if you look at the CO2 tax that is already on, for example. the use of petrol is higher than 80 cents. If one calculates that a car emits 200 g of CO2 per. km - uses one litre in a mile - we need a CO2 tax of 20 cents to buy climate allowances that make that car CO2 neutral. Now the charge is 80 cents, so four times more than it needs to be. Then the government should start to see if they should not earmark the fees rather than try to pay even more fees to Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e494	The President wondered whether the representative should not make any proposals in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e497	This is what the representative does.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e502	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e508	I have listened with great interest to the contributions of the representative of Solvik-Olsen. It's a little difficult to hang on to all the turns. This may, of course, be the result of this representative. When Solvik-Olsen concludes that there is nothing in the climate agreement that the Progress Party could not have participated in, with the exception of the increase in the fuel tax - he has repeated that in many ways in today's debate, while he is quoted in the media earlier - I actually wonder what the Progress Party really thinks when I see that the Vice President of the Advance Party, Per Sandberg, is not to be misunderstood when he says that he believes that it cannot vote that CO2 is the cause of global warming. He refuses to believe that temperature increases are due to CO2 remaining in the atmosphere. Does the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen agree with his Vice-Chairman?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e521	I must almost ask to be told where the quote is from, because I followed Per Sandberg very carefully on the day he was in many debates in the NRK. I do not remember him saying that CO2 cannot cause increased temperatures. What he found was the same thing that I took up in my post, that there are some scientists who claim it, while the United Nations Climate Panel is very clear on its own. The Progress Party has said that yes, we want the scientific debate to continue. But we also say yes, we're going to have a leading var attitude, we're going to take the warnings seriously. We wanted to be a constructive partner in the climate negotiations that were taking place. Now I record that the other parties did not want to invite us, and I find it particularly regrettable that the Right allowed themselves to be a victim of the game that the Labour Party obviously wanted to split up what becomes a bourgeois government. But read our Amendment No 8! There is a view of the attitude of the Progress Party. That proposal is the whole party behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e531	First to clarify where Per Sandberg's statements, to which the representative Kristiansen referred, are taken from. They are from the Aust-Agder Progress Party's annual meeting, referred to in the Agderposten on 4 February 2008. So another Per Sandberg quote. At the moment, the website of the Progress Party reads that Vice-Chairman Sandberg refers to Nobel Prize winner Al Gore as ‘a great bluffmaker’. I think there is reason to recall the international recognition that the Peace Prize has, and ask the representative if he is proud of the way Sandberg talks about the Peace Prize winner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e543	We have different ways of saying things, and I guess that's also expressed in the way Per Sandberg puts it. We believe that there is reason to question some of the claims made by Al Gore, not to reduce the peace price, but there are a number of things that have been proven wrong. He exaggerates a lot when he says that the United Nations Climate Panel warns against an increase of 6-7 meters, where the United Nations Climate Panel stays well below the meter. And there's more. What one would like to focus more on is that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, in many cases, is much more sober than the impression that the political debate is creating afterwards, when one makes the entire Intergovernmental Panel report to a black and white thing where there is no room for doubt, where even the Intergovernmental Panel says that there are many chances that there are many scenarios. It's strange that if someone says that the Intergovernmental Panel takes too hard, they're taken to be unprofessional, but if one says that the Intergovernmental Panel doesn't take too hard enough in, a sudden concern is environmental protection that it's worth listening to. If one believes that the Intergovernmental Panel is wrong, it must apply in both directions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e552	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen is very misguided in his post, but actually I think he is most annoyed at his own who almost a year ago voted against the Progress Party accepting the Kyoto agreement. We have read the proposals of the Progress Party, and we hear what the Progress Party says. The progress team says: the IPCC researchers are helping to spread climate hysteria. Think if we spend a lot of money on climate action that we could spend on cheaper petrol. Think of the betrayal of future generations. The point is, Per Sandberg says he wants to get votes in the fight against climate hysteria. So you gamble with the future of the earth for your own gain. Isn't this cynicism? What is Ketil Solvik-Olsen's definition of cynicism? Does the Progress Party really believe that climate change is man-made and that it represents a threat to the very existence of the earth?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e559	I think I'm going to attend a Norwegian course, because obviously the representative Thorkildsen has not understood my erudite dialect when I've spent 5 minutes of my post explaining just what the Progress Party thinks about the United Nations Climate Panel and the warnings they come with. I just don't want to repeat that. I'd rather focus on what Thorkildsen says about the Kyoto agreement. I was present at the government meeting in the Progress Party last February, where the resolution on Kyoto was adopted. It wasn't the representative of Thorkildsen, as far as I know, unless they've started rhombusting. What I can confirm is that the resolution I wrote was not a yes or no to Kyoto. It was a preparation for Document No. The 8 that we have to deal with here today. That resolution was actually adopted. What was removed from the resolution was some statements about Kyoto, because one wanted to be clear about working for action, not having a debate about for and against Kyoto. Then the NRK has made its own spin on it afterwards. I encourage the representative Thorkildsen to go to the primary sources when she's going to discuss climate with the Progress Party, and not just deal with commentators who don't like the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e568	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e571	Let me just get to say first that the settlement commits us. It obliges all the parties, including the government parties, who have participated in the signing of the climate agreement. I don't think there must be any idea that the Right has become some kind of victim in these negotiations. On the contrary, we feel that we have been a driver, who is very pleased that we have managed to move the government parties in a more offensive and more obligatory direction. That the Progress Party was not invited to participate in these negotiations, we cannot take responsibility for it. It would be -- I think -- right to say that it would have been unheard of if we had mixed up in the guest list that the government had then invited it to participate in these negotiations. At the same time as today's debate, I think it has to be stated that the attacks that have occurred today on the Norwegian oil industry, including what kind of position to take on future oil and gas activity outside the Lofoten and the West Pole, are not part of the climate agreement. Then it says, what happens if the scientists are wrong, like, among other things. the lead promoter asks questions about, when they point to global warming as a result of human activity? Yes, let's hope that the scientists are wrong! Until it had to happen, which I don't think is going to happen, it would be a bit of a failure sin if we didn't act out of the symptoms of climate change that take place that we can see around us all over the world. The Meteorological Institute established yesterday that the average temperature in February 2008 is 4.8 degrees above normal. We should think about what that actually means. If the earth's average temperature in 2050 was not only to be 2 degrees above pre-industrial time, but approaching a 5 degree rise, the world's society is facing a collapse. That means that when we get this kind of documentation presented, we have to act. We may not notice the large differences nationally during this magnification period or the next majorization period. It's our children and grandchildren who will be set to review the decisions we make in the Storting today. I think the evidence and the evidence are so overwhelming. We know the consequences. I don't think any scientist in the world will be in any doubt about what will happen if the temperature by 2050 has risen by close to 5 degrees compared to the temperature in pre-industrial time. Then we know the consequences, and therefore we have to act today. When it becomes clear at the same time that there is no room for large national cuts, I think there is also reason to stop and look at this point of view. A lot of people claim this. They believe that this is appropriate for the nation of Norway, for Norwegian industry, for Norwegian policy. A relationship is that we have a moral obligation to act. The second is: what kind of services do we Norwegian industry if we get into a situation, which I hope from 2013 on and on, where carbon gets a price tag, and that there are no free quotas that dominate the world. What kind of services are we doing today Norwegian industry, including Norwegian oil industry, process industry and others, if we say we're going to participate in cuts, but those cuts are going to be taken out of the country's borders? I think we need to take account of domestic activity as well when, through the climate agreement, we have committed ourselves to addressing the task of taking up to two thirds of our domestic Kyoto requirements. It will not prevent us from also carrying out activities beyond the borders of the country. Some people have the belief that we would like to participate through the green development mechanism and contribute to technology development in the underdeveloped part of the world, but at the same time we should have the attitude that the underdeveloped part of the world should be allowed to contaminate because we've done it earlier every year. I think that's a wrong point of view. It's a crazy approximation. It's a passive approach to have. When we see the developments taking place in India, China, Brazil and some other countries, we need to have a very offensive approach that technology transfer must also be an active lever in international climate policy. Norway has earned a search warrant for exports of fossil fuels. We export annual CO2 emissions for an estimated 700 million tonnes. That's a lot. That's a lot. It means that we have a moral obligation to be in the process of emancipating international policies in this area. I don't think we're going to go to business economic considerations about investments in Kårstø and Mongstad etc. has lower profitability than if we had made investments abroad. We have to do both. When known figures show that by 2030 world energy demand will increase by 55-60 pst. in relation to today, and that fossil fuels will account for more than 80 pst. of the increase, we see that we have to solve the question of the capture and storage of CO2. Everything suggests that in terms of the increased demand for energy in the world, we have to succeed in building bridges between fossil and renewable society. That means that the capture and storage of CO2 is a key issue. If we can do the job in Norway in the field of gas power plants, we have done the world a great service. When it comes to the issue of acting now or waiting and seeing, I think that we have also received some economic considerations and evidence that the best solution, the cheapest solution and the most appropriate solution for environmental reasons is to act today. Nicolas Stern has clearly illustrated the costs of postponing action and just wait and see that the evidence is even heavier in our books than they are today. I am pleased that the EU has become a political driving force in policy-making in this area, which will also have an impact on Norwegian policy in this area. While reducing climate emissions in Norway in a situation where energy demand is increasing, we need to move forward in the development of more renewable energy in Norway. There are few nations in this world that are better rusted by nature to do just this task. I hope that at the time of the revision of the national budget, we can see the Government's proposals on how we can help stimulate the development of more renewable energy in Norway, and that we can have framework conditions in Norway in this area that are at least as good as those that we have abroad. To enter for landing here I have to say that it is the Right clear conclusion that we have to act today. The documentation, the evidence, on what will be the result if we wait, is so overwhelming that we can do nothing but take responsibility. That means that we have to let the doubt benefit the future generations, and that means that we have to let the doubt benefit the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e612	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e615	Right wants to emerge with credibility and as a driver in the climate debate. Through the climate agreement, the Right has taken the view that the fight against anthropogenic climate change is a matter of value. So the right has taken a value point in the climate issue. This is what most - except the Advance Party - believe excludes the Advance Party as a possible partner in any right-wing government. Does the representative of Kristiansen agree with that assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e621	Right throughout its history, we've been known for wanting to negotiate solutions. In the government positions we've been through history, we've ruled with a few exceptions along with other parties. That means that we have had to participate in negotiations, and that we have not always been able to expect to get a hundred percent impact on our policies. Negotiating means giving. It has ultimately helped to give both the Right and - I think - the nation the best and best results. I understand what is the underlying question in the representative Pedersen's reply. I believe that the Progress Party itself must respond to whether they have made more fun of their position and their political approach to climate policy in order to participate in cooperation with, among other things. Christian People's Party, Left and Right. I believe the Christian People's Party and the Left have already expressed their fundamental views on Pedersen's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e628	I think it's a little weird approach the representative Kristiansen takes to the post that I had, because obviously many of the slots he had, fixed that way. The representative did not agree that the Progress Party has promoted a comprehensive Document No. 8 proposals, where we actually have proposals for more than 30 measures to reduce CO2 emissions? But we would like to have a slightly different approach to that. What if science is wrong, says the representative. It's a sin of failure not to do anything, he says. The progress party later not as if we're not going to do anything. We point out that this is an ongoing debate. Among other things, the global average temperature has been stable over the last eight years. It went down even last year. It is not only useful to look at the average temperature in one country or in a small region. You have to look at the whole world. The representative took this into account that there is a large space for national cut. The Kyoto Agreement shall be honoured by 2012. Where does the representative Kristiansen see room for large national cut to comply with the Kyoto agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e640	In many ways, the Low Emissions Committee has been the leader and has made strong contributions to the negotiations we have been through. As demonstrated by the climate agreement, it has become a product without the conclusion being that sectoral solutions are being identified. It has not been my intention to go to any rabid attack on the Progress Party. I have only allowed myself to quote what the Progress Party's own representatives have stated. I assume that they are not misquoted wherever they have expressed themselves. It could hardly be possible. I note with great interest that it is a completely different approach to trace from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen in relation to his Vice-Chairman when it comes to expressing himself. I had therefore expected the Progress Party to have approached more closely the three so-called Bondevik parties on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e649	I want to start by thanking the representative Kristiansen for the good cooperation that resulted in us getting this agreement. We're very happy about that. But I'm worried. In the most recent polls, it is estimated that the Right Party and the Advance Party can actually end up with a pure majority after the next major elections. The question is what happens then to climate policy. When we go through and see what the Progress Party stands for in practice, there are no regulations, no charges, no requirements for municipalities, no extension of the quota system or the use of instruments. They'd rather withdraw instruments that we have and that other countries don't have. They reject the preview discussion completely. There's no point in going ahead. It's rather a point to try to keep as much back as possible. Per Sandberg is now going to travel around the country and the beach and get voices against what he calls the climate hysteria. I then wonder how the Right should ensure that we not only manage to implement this agreement with a strong progress party, but also to take a step further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e658	It is quite correct that both the Right and the Advance Party have very good opinions for the time being. I think there are many people who mentally may have started to change their minds to think that regardless of whether it becomes one or the other solution, it becomes a government shift from 2009. That would hardly mean that a new government would have Per Sandberg as a climate policy spokesman. Nothing today suggests that the Right has a millimeter to give in some kind of negotiations on our positions in climate policy. In addition, I just want to say that in several municipalities and municipalities we have many and very good experiences from working with the Progress Party. I know in this case who has to give in terms of defining a policy in the field of climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e665	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e668	A broad majority in this room, with the exception of the Progress Party, today confirms the basic plan for Norwegian climate policy in the years to come. The climate agreement obliges all six parties, and the climate agreement should not be the subject of any compromises, on which the representative Marianne Marthinsen challenged us. Those parties to the Climate Change Agreement will take seriously the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. We acknowledge that the emissions of greenhouse gases per year. The population is very high in Norway compared to the rest of the world. The reason is closely linked to our high standard of living, and the fact that Norway is a major producer and exporter of oil and gas. The climate agreement marks the start of Norway’s transition towards a low-carbon society. The leader of the United Nations Climate Panel, Pachauri, has given us a challenge that I think it might be wise to take it along: make up the difference you want for the world! This is how he concluded his last presentation of the fourth report. Norway should have such an ambitious goal for its policy that we are to make a difference in the world. The settlement is not a final solution. It is only a first step, but a very important step. What did we achieve in the agreement? The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right were able to strengthen the Government's objectives in relation to emissions. Norway commits, as the first country in the world, to contribute €3 billion to the conservation of rainforests. Research and development shall be stepped up. In renewable energy in particular, appropriations are significantly increased. There will be greater appropriations for rail and public transport in major cities, and the Government has reopened negotiations with Sweden on a common green certification market. None of these measures would have been put in place if the Government had not experienced a strong political pressure from the Christian People's Party, Left and Right. Is the climate debate cancelled now after the conciliation? It's a question that's still coming up. No, the agreement does not invalidate the climate debate. Indeed, the objectives of the climate agreement are to be implemented, and the Christian People's Party is going to base the top estimate of national emission reductions on our political work, that is. a reduction of 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020. On the action side, therefore, there will be a continuous debate. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I promise that the Christian People's Party will be responsible impatiently in relation to the follow-up to the climate settlement. Although the agreement does not impose any binding emission requirements on the petroleum sector, it means that the total Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions will be significantly reduced by 2020. Then we cannot allow a repetition of the Skarv expansion, which alone ensured that Norwegian emissions increase by 1 pst. annual. The Goliath field is therefore the first large sample stone for the Government. The Christian People's Party sees it as obvious that opening and expanding new oil and gas fields without electrification would be contrary to the climate agreement. The agreement therefore has implications for Norwegian oil policy. The policy must become more restrictive. The Christian People's Party will also follow the development of industry. It is essential to bring about an extension of the European ETS and to implement new measures for that part of the industry that is not subject to the ETS or CO2 charges. In the case of transport, a major change in the tax system is needed. The rapporteur was concerned about the disagreement in the comments on assistance. The Christian People's Party is going to follow closely the aid policy. There is reason to believe that the Government is planning to finance parts of the rainforest and other climate action in developing countries by means of the aid budget. The Christian People's Party will never be able to accept such a distortion of aid. At this point, therefore, there was a clear and clear disagreement in the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e696	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e699	I noticed that the representative Holten Hemdal was satisfied with the agreement she herself was agreeing to. The Christian People's Party has provided the basis for more predictability and long-term environmental policy, and it commits it in the future, it has also been said. Then I heard a little rush of criticism against the red-greens. If it's like that, for example. within the rainforest wanting a different policy than the one the red-greens have now signaled, I wonder where the Christian People's Party is going to go to find a majority. Does one look to the Progress Party to win, or what is actually the predictability of the Christian People's Party in environmental policy when a person spends time in the main effort to clarify this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e706	As for the Christian People's Party's commitment to the world's poor, it's an area where we never compromise, because getting food and better living conditions and bringing down the mortality of the world's population is for the Christian People's Party the most fundamental question of value. So we'll never be able to get a majority for any policy that compromises in this area. Therefore, it was absolutely essential for the Christian People's Party to be able to conclude this agreement with the Government that we received a note that aid and rainforest should not go at the expense of each other. We're not going to get a twist from the world's poor to anyone else who needs environmental assistance, because the world's poor people need food in their stomachs, they need schooling, they need health, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e712	I think it is commendable that the representative is so clear that one should see where the money comes from and where they go. Now it does not seem that there is a problem that aid money is being used for the rainforest, because according to Today's Business, the three billions may be delayed for at least one year, but one records that many aid organisations say they have noticed a distortion from aid work to environmental work during this government and with the new Council of State. What I want to ask, on the other hand, is: in the case of the climate agreement, the Government and the Bondevik parties boast that 250 million will be granted. kr more to the railway. I think that's a huge thing. On the other hand, the Council of State cannot respond to whether this should be a net or a gross increase. If we look at today's budget, 250 million. kr less than you need to restate this. Last year, the increase in the rail sector was over 400 million. kr. Is really 250 million. kr more to the railway such a terrible good say to flag?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e719	I believe that all the commuters who have been stuck in the last few days here in the Oslo area agree that a commitment to rail in urban areas - as it says in the agreement - is a good point. It is forward-looking transport; it is forward-looking environmental policy. For the Christian People's Party, and I believe for the others as well, these shall be clean crowns. This is going to be 250 million. kr pure kronor, which is an addition to facilitate everyday life for people and to be part of the major environmental challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e724	I would also like to thank the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal for the good cooperation in getting this agreement in place. But as I said before, I'm somewhat concerned about how this is going to move forward, especially with a strong progress party. Now the representative Ivar Kristiansen said that he knows who has to give in to climate policy in the future. Now we are going to try to look into this debate a little further today and see if the Progress Party has the same position here. But at least in any case I wish the Christian People's Party good luck in this too. Erna Solberg has also spread some uncertainty about what this agreement really involves. She says that it is good to bring down car traffic, but she can, for example, do so. do not see car traffic in Bergen as a problem. She also interprets the agreement in such a way that there is no charge for alcohol. You just have to distribute money to get public transport. But does not Line Henriette Holten Hemdal agree that we also need restrictive measures against car traffic in order to achieve our objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e733	The representative of Thorkildsen is concerned today. She is concerned on behalf of other parties: a concern to the Right, a concern to the Christian People's Party. I'm glad people are worried about us, but I think Thorkildsen has bigger government challenges. Today's headline in Dagbladet tells us that Thorkildsen wants to use the power of ownership in StatoilHydro in a matter on which the representative has addressed earlier and challenged the Council of State, but she will not pursue such a policy. So I think maybe Thorkildsen should be a little worried about the government cooperation she's involved in. But to the question. Yes, in traffic and communication, we're going to use both whips and carrots. These are the two ways we need to change people's travel patterns. Then it is important to use the charging system. This is estimated in the climate agreement. We're going to be impatient janitors, so the government is taking the radical grip that's going to have to be in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e740	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e743	The Central Party takes the reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change seriously. Through the Government Climate Communication and the broad agreement in Stortinget, the Centre Party, together with the other parties, has contributed to the necessary and important measures to reduce greenhouse gases. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has previously pointed out that there is a high risk that the climate change we are witnessing today will come as a result of human activity. The latest reports from the researchers show that the link between human activity and climate change is clearer than previously believed, and that changes are faster and more extensive than previously reported. An example of this is the acceleration of ice melting in the Arctic. Two of the Central Party's blatant principles go straight into climate policy. The first and most important thing is the principle of bearer power, the idea that we borrow the earth from those who come after us, and have to leave it in at least as good a condition as what we ourselves took over it. The climate panel report shows that we are doing the opposite. In the climate agreement, a broad majority in this room states that Norway should be carbon-neutral late in 2030, that we should over-perform the emission obligations we have under the Kyoto agreement, and that about 2/3 of emissions should be on the ground. The central party of Norway has a moral responsibility not only to contribute to cutting emissions around the world, but also - because we are rich in knowledge and capital - to show that it is possible to ensure a good welfare society for more and more people while reducing our emissions of greenhouse gases. The work undertaken by the Government to drive the necessary technology for the capture and storage of CO2 is central to this process of thinking. Through such a technology, we can manage some of the emissions that will result from most of the energy production in the world will have in the near future. In the longer term, Norway’s role must be to contribute to the large resources we have in renewable energy. Because we have large unused resources in wind, water and bioenergy that need to be put into use to cover own energy consumption and contribute in the long term to exporting pure energy to Europe. The climate agreement represents a stronger effort for both more renewable energy research and more renewable energy production. The centre party also thinks we need a fundamental debate on the growth of consumption that we are looking forward to in our part of the world. The material wealth we live in can never be shared by the rest of the population in the world without an ecological collapse. Therefore, we do not take the climate challenge seriously if we do not also dare to discuss the consumption issue. The precautionary principle is also relevant in the Central Party's policy. The market is an important hub in many contexts, but it is nevertheless not the market itself that invokes a precautionary principle. It is understandable that a market liberalist party such as the Progress Party does not have the power to take seriously the researchers who say that future climate change can come from today and yesterday. Market forces do not correct themselves until the sequences are so clear and clear that they change the pattern of production. In this case it will be too late. In the last few years, the party of progress has been riding two horses in climate policy. On the one hand, they have rejected the fact that there is a global climate challenge that comes from human activity. On the other hand, representatives from the same party have constantly put forward new proposals for climate mitigation measures. Sooner or later, one will be revealed if one continues to pursue such a double strategy. Perhaps climate policy is on today's map in Stortinget on 4 March 2058. Those in this room in 50 years' time will have far more knowledge of the effects of greenhouse gas emissions on our planet. If it were to be rolled into this room that the government and the majority of the population on 4 March 2008 took too much drastic action in climate policy, and that many of the means employed put in, and the resources used, were not necessary, yes, we get tolerating that criticism, because the option is much worse. The alternative is that the politicians in 50 years' time are the main reasons why we, who had all this knowledge and all these resources, had to act when we had the chance. I am pleased that a broad majority in this Chamber is acting today, and that we adopt concrete objectives and measures that take our descendants seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e770	I will first start with a little reading aid to the representative Sande, and that applies to others as well. On page 2, second column, bottom section of our Document No. Eight proposals are included.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It is important to take the challenges/warnings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change seriously’. I think we should end this debate about who cares, and who doesn't care. The question is what kind of approach should be adopted, what kind of action should be taken. I almost expected this debate to be about what is good and what is bad action. That is why I would like to ask the representative Sande: the Soria Moria statement says that green certificates should not include small power plants. Now that Norway is negotiating green certificates with Sweden, does Erling Sande agree that it is good policy, and does the representative Sande believe that it is still government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e780	On several occasions in recent times, leading politicians from the Progress Party have been talking about climate change, climate hysteria, and it has also been shown in this Chamber today to these issues. Then it must be possible for the other parties on the Storting to ask directly the Progress Party: Do you believe - and there is a question that it has not yet been answered - that human activity and emissions resulting from human activity lead to climate change, or do you not believe it? That is the fundamental question: if a person believes that human activity and emissions lead to climate change, yes, then it must be right to take action to slow it down. But if you don't believe it, if you don't trust the conclusions of the United Nations Climate Panel, it would be crazy to put forward a lot of expensive and clear measures to curb climate change. The progress party must express its opinion whether they believe in the Intergovernmental Panel or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e785	The representative Lundtägen is one of the Central Party's leading ideologists. Not many years ago, the representative said it was time for Norway to produce almost everything itself. It applied to everything from washing machines and other white goods to agricultural products and most of the other things. The representative is also, as we know, a strong opponent of international trade - perhaps even all trade - which would be equally useful in building a Berlin wall around Norway. But the environment is international. Environment and climate change have no international borders. Even with a ‘Lundtigen’ wall around Norway, we will notice — and we notice today — major changes in the environment. My question to the representative Sande is therefore: Does the representative agree with his co-representative Lundteigen, an ideologist within the Central Party, that we should produce more and more ourselves? And what kind of consequences does this have for the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e792	The representative Lundtegegen struck at that time, already at the time, an important moment in what is today's climate debate, that we are transporting goods from one side of the earth to another - an example is meat from New Zealand to Norway - with large environmental costs and high emissions costs. There is no doubt that, for example: a focus on short-term food, food production that is short-range from consumption, is a very good climate action and also a reduction in emissions. So in that I support the representative Lundtigen 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e798	We center parties have some common heart things. I am pleased that the representative Sande spoke about consumer policy in his contribution. It's an important center value. But I want to challenge the representative on another heart issue for the Center Party, namely agriculture. The good farmer thinks long-term. There is a generation perspective: some sows for the next generation to reap. In 2005, agriculture stood for 9 pst. of Norway’s climate emissions. I've been visiting Kongsberg and Rakkestad municipalities for the past week, where agriculture is the source that emits the most CO2 equivalents. I would like to challenge the representative on the following: Can he give me three examples of agricultural measures in order for agriculture to be included in the climate change response that we are starting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e806	There are some center values that we're dealing with. Agriculture and maintaining a viable agriculture in the whole country is one of them. It is also an innovative agriculture, an agriculture which itself proposes environmentally friendly measures and climate-friendly measures. I think -- to try to approach three examples -- that I'm going to start with the important thing about having a living small-scale agriculture. We see that larger emissions from the large industrial agriculture that we have in Europe are taking place than from the agriculture that we have in our country. Having tools to stimulate food production throughout the country without having these huge units of industrial agriculture as we look down in Europe will clearly be a concrete contribution to reducing emissions. The other is, for example, to support organic farming and promote instruments that are more conducive to organic production so that we can obtain environmentally friendly products. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e815	The number is out. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e820	The left was the first party on the Stortinget that called for a broad climate settlement. It is therefore very satisfactory that we succeeded in reaching a settlement that has raised the ground level in Norwegian climate policy. Norway has had more ambitious climate policies than the climate communication provided. When the climate announcement was presented, one had to go either far into the government buildings or to the Progress Party to find someone who was satisfied. With the agreement that exists today, it is a general view that you have come much further than the climate communication provided. But I'm not hiding that the Left had ambitions to get even further, and we'll take advantage of upcoming opportunities to sharpen the Norwegian objectives and to help to make the instruments more concrete and more ambitious than is the case today. It is also in the agreement that, after the Copenhagen meeting to next year, there will be a new opportunity to further develop Norwegian climate policy on the basis of the agreement now available. When the climate message was met with a common requirement list of 61 points from the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right, it was noticed. It was a rather important signal that these three parties were willing to go much further than that government party, including SV, had managed to arrive at in cooperation with the government. And as I said in a reply earlier today, it was a very strange situation to experience sitting and negotiating with SV, who wanted to tone down the level of ambition, and who wanted one not to be as obsessive and offensive within the various sectors as the Left, Christian People's Party and Right would. So we were able to get a little bit on the way, but I find it completely incomprehensible that it is now said from the SV that one would have wanted to get further, when the reality is that one in a number of areas contributed to the fact that one no longer came even if both the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party wanted it. The party of progress is on the outside of this agreement, and I think that's natural. The Progress Party neither recognises the problems nor is willing to do the job that needs to be done to take the climate challenges seriously. There's an important shade here. It is that this February coup that Per Sandberg conducted in his own party, moved the policy of the Progress Party further away from the other parties than the line that Ketil Solvik-Olsen has stood for, and which I think he is continuing in many ways today. Then there is another point that I would like to emphasise, that there appears to be a big difference between the Right and the Advance Party in climate policy. It must be a matter of time before the Right also concludes that in essential areas these two batches differ in such a way that this cannot be combined in government cooperation. That conclusion has already been reached by the Left, because the political realities warrant it, and I believe that the Right now prepares the basis for drawing a similar conclusion. The government parties have said that they agreed to the agreement because so much new information and new documentation has been received since the climate notification was submitted. It is quite right that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reinforced previous conclusions, charged them even better than before, but it was quite obvious that when the climate communication was presented last summer, there was more than enough evidence to make a more offensive climate policy than the government was able to reach in its communication. But I give praise to the Government because it has moved. It didn't have to do that, but I think the external pressure of opinion and the expectation of a climate settlement, as well as the three opposition parties were able to reach an agreement on an ambitious arrangement, helped the government to move significantly in relation to its original positions. Then someone's been wondering if the climate debate is over with this. The answer to that is no. The agreement forms the basis for further development of Norwegian climate policy. Now work is starting to ensure that this is followed up, and the first objective of taking the climate deal seriously by the Government is whether a deliverer in the revised national budget is compared to rainforest spending. For what is in the agreement is that one should show the willingness to support pilot projects as early as 2008. This must mean that there is funding for this in the revised national budget. With this agreement, we have made some important progress towards Norway as a low-carbon society. But this is just an inspiring start. This isn't the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e839	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e842	It's always interesting to listen to Kvassheim when he comments on internal negotiations. I'm not going to do that. As for who has the credit for giving us a broad climate deal, I think the representative has to look into our eyes that we have a government that has a majority. It was not necessary for the sitting government to come to the Stortinget and ask for a broad settlement. It was because it was so binding and important to us, that we invited the Storting to a large and broad settlement, to get long-termity and to get predictability. This is now the basis for concrete action. Kvassheim was also concerned with this with predictability. He was even going to tighten up the conciliation further - and we need to discuss that in the future, of course, when we see developments - and he was in the Copenhagen meeting in 2009. My question is: Is the Left to trust if they come into such a position that they have to negotiate with the Advance Party? See Kvassheim for a stronger environmental policy with such a political situation in Stortinget, cf. what happened in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e851	The three parties that have negotiated with the government parties, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, have shown that we are able to reach a more ambitious climate policy than today's government parties have done. The arrangement we put forward in 61 points can be compared with the climate communication, and is evidence of what I said. There would be no problem for a government, I hope, which started from these three parties, to come to the Stortinget with such a platform and join one or more of today's government parties. That's how it went on in the last growing-up period. For example, when the Bondevik II government presented good environmental proposals, an SV was included in a more ambitious arrangement than the Progress Party and the Workers' Party were prepared to join. That ability to control will also exist in the future for a government that is heavily funded in the centre. It has a freedom of action that allows the edge of climate policy, the Progress Party, to be kept out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e856	It is obvious that the socialist parties have decided to try to create the image that the Progress Party is complete on earth in relation to the other three bourgeois parties. I think they can forget that concern. When they themselves cannot agree on a petroleum policy, they should spend time getting to it. With regard to the 61 measures that the Left boasts, the Progress Party says that we could join all of them, except for two. But thus trying to create a very large distinction between the Progress Party and the three Bondevik parties I think is a little strange. It's boasting that you've moved the government a long way when you've got $1 million. Extra tons and then unable to say where these cuts are going to come are also a little bit strange. But let's go to the rush rate, to take the concrete measures. In the evening magazine on Friday, the representative Kvassheim was tired of the socialists wanting to have a rush-time charge in Rogaland - despite the fact that the Left is for a rush-time charge in general, despite the fact that the climate agreement will reward those who are introducing a rush-time charge. What's wrong with the rush-time charge in the Left's eyes when they're for it anyway, and they've been for it in the bargain?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e863	Firstly, when it came to the Progress Party, they were not prepared to address the objectives of climate policy and set targets for reduction, and that is a very important prerequisite for Norwegian climate policy. The climate agreement states that the urban areas that will contribute to the reduction of car traffic and to the stimulation of public transport should be compensated for in the distribution of the reward funds with regard to the charging of rush time charges and measures to reduce car traffic in large cities. The Left is in complete agreement. What I took into account in Rogaland was SV and the Workers' Party's unilateral drive that it must be a rush-time charge. It is clear in the agreement that one is free locally to choose the means to be used to achieve the objective of reducing car use. It is not right that the left is generally for a charge. We are generally in favour of a policy that provides less car use and more public transport in cities, but one has to choose a solution locally, as one has done in Oslo, where the Progress Party is involved in a solution of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e870	In connection with last year's election campaign, the Left to the Evening Post says on questions about what was the biggest defeat for the party, that it was the Snow White expansion. Left did not request this, but left lost for Right in government negotiations on Sem. The question must then be: can the Left guarantee that there will be a new government with which the Left is involved, and where the Right has either as a member or as a support party, that one will pursue a climate policy that is at least as ambitious as that of the agreement currently under discussion in the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e875	The answer to that is yes. Then I want to say a little about the Snow White and Kårstø extensions, which have been the topic today. Both projects were mentioned in the government statement for the previous government. There we said that we based the decision to extend the gas power plant on Kårstø, and we assumed that it was a majority who wanted the Snow White extension. It was followed up, but no new permits were granted for gas power plants. That means that the previous government did exactly what one said in the government statement, while today's government has shown on a number of points that one does not follow up a promise. A promised clean-up at Kårstø in 2009. Now it's unclear when it gets there. A promised cleaning at Mongstad from day one, and you don't know that when will be. That means that the previous government stood by the government statement you had, to the point and the point in these areas, while today's government is being followed by a lifting breach. What I can promise is that a future government, in which the Left may be involved, will follow up on what one agrees with the other parties, in a possible declaration of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e883	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e886	With the danger of again being accused of competing with Lars Sponheim in pompousness, I would say that this is a day of which the Stortinget can be proud, of which the Norwegian political system can be proud, and where it does not make great sense for the six parties that have participated in this conciliation, to discuss who said what, did what, and who has the most honor. We have honor together - the government has honor, the Storting has honor, and the Norwegian political system has honor. One of the reasons Norway is at the top of the world for good countries to live in is precisely our ability to find unifying solutions in difficult situations. Without drawing this too far--one of the countries that have occupied me most lately, is Kenya. The core of the political conflict in Kenya is that 51 pst. of the country's inhabitants can rule over 49 p.m., whether it is one way or another, and it has to lead to difficulties. But our ability to national compromises in such big and demanding matters as this is something we should just be proud of in common. So I would also say that one of the things that have come out of this, that now arouses some international interest, is the idea of carbon neutrality. It may seem a little small. For the time being, five countries have declared carbon neutrality objectives, but what makes this idea more applicable is that it is not just countries that can declare carbon neutrality objectives. It can cities - Arendal has done it in Norway, and other Norwegian cities will be able to come after - and it can do business. Many American companies, which were initially not among the most well-known for their eco-friendliness, have now gone ahead and declared significant objectives, go through their entire business portfolio to see where they can reduce emissions, thus contributing to pressure on the political system. Then there is one danger with such a settlement, and that is the tendency for the debate to mute and thus the political pressure, because it is debate and conflict that is in a way the core of policy - without that we will never get any further. That is why it is crucial to establish, as several speakers have done here, that this climate agreement is not the end of the climate debate in Norway. This is rather the beginning of the well-informed climate debate. There will be a lot of new knowledge based on research in the years to come. Many new technologies will be developed, and none of us can say for sure where they will come, but they will give us new opportunities, and new and exciting political ideas will come from other countries. All of this we have to include, so that we can further develop what is in this climate agreement. A lot of things may seem out of date only in a few years. It's impossible to know in an area that is so-- to use a fine word-- dynamically international as this is now. Then we start immediately with the hard work that is putting out in life every single point in this climate agreement. Here is hard work in the field of transport, in oil policy, in energy policy, in the international field - in short: in all, in most areas, and everything must be carried out as far as it is in our power. It is true, of course, that Norway cannot solve the problems alone. We can only solve them in a broad, international community. We will be an important driver and partner of the international community towards the Copenhagen Summit in 2009. Much will depend on the U.S. presidential election. Perhaps one does not fully target Copenhagen in 2009, but at least we should be a partner that contributes to this. As I see it, there are three areas in particular where Norway has something to contribute globally, internationally. Then we just have to fully acknowledge that in many other areas we want to learn from others. It's e.g. not very realistic for the whole world to look at Norway in terms of emissions from air traffic. It is difficult to regulate in a small country like Norway alone, where we do not have any aircraft industry to impose specific requirements. That's where we'll have to learn from what, for example. is done in the EU. But in three areas, we have a special Norwegian contribution that will be of international interest. It is in the case of carbon, capture and storage. If we succeed in Mongstad and Kårstø, this will be of considerable international interest, and of course it is of interest in the context of what is done in the EU, the United States, China and elsewhere. Then shipping is an area where the rest of the world looks at Norway. We have a relatively modern fleet. We are among the world's four-five largest shipping nations, and there will be considerable international interest in what we do. Norway should contribute to the entry of shipping into the global quota system, even if it is difficult. It is more technically problematic than in many other sectors. I will start the dialogue with the shipping industry on this as early as tomorrow, at the Federation's annual meeting, and I hope that this can be an area where we can do a lot in Norway that could have international significance. The third in addition to CO2 capture and storage and shipping is rainforest. The promise made jointly by the Government and the opposition parties to contribute DKK 3 billion in this area has aroused great international interest. We get lots of partners who are now interested in discussing with us how we're going to do it. But-- let me immediately warn against rushing into projects that are semi-good. The rainforest must be protected in some of the more corrupt countries on the globe. It must be protected ashore with civil war, some countries that are very weak states. In short, this is not a simple matter, it is not just sending a check with money. The two countries as per Today, countries with the most clear national management plans that are most likely to enter and support will be Brazil and Papua New Guinea. There may also be some other Latin American countries, but many of the countries we're talking about don't even have any national plan that it's possible from the outside to go in and support. We're going to go as fast as possible in this area, let there's no doubt about it. We're going to come back to the revised national budget with our own proposals for the budget next year as soon as it's possible to spend money in this area, but no one will be worth throwing money into things that won't work. That boomerang is just coming back, and it's not just coming back to the government, it's coming back to an overall Norwegian political environment. Let us then compare the views of the Advance Party in the field of climate and, for example, in the context of climate change. care for the elderly. When I mention the care of the elderly, it is because it is an area where the Progress Party in Norway has obviously contributed positively to a ‘travel’. In the case of care for the elderly, the Progress Party does not quote every expert in the world who doubts that we need a better care for the elderly, or that whenever there are any research reports, jumps up or runs around and says that they will win voters by so questioning the need for better care for the elderly in Norway. But that's what happens in this area! The progress party originally said that this with the air conditioning rustle was something I personally had invented to win votes. It was in 1989. Then you went towards the Kyoto agreement when it came. So, when the Nobel Prize came, one was skeptical about it too - both for the climate panel and for Al Gore. It's not that Al Gore says a lot of sensible things that you have to support, but that's what you might doubt, which is what's interesting. So Per Sandberg runs around and says he's going to win votes on the issue of air conditioning, and in the area by area, the Progress Party is promoting proposals that will increase Norwegian emissions, whether it's transport or oil drilling, or whatever it may be. In short, if you do not want to participate in the necessary national mobilisation to bring the population into the climate promise that we have to take, it will be very, very difficult to have the Progress Party as a partner in this area. That doesn't mean that not Solvik-Olsen saw much sense in his post. Many of the views I share, or they are an important part of the debate, but as long as the Progress Party is not a partner in mobilising for this overwhelming goal of our globe, it will be very difficult to bring the Advance Party into some real dialogue even in areas where the party has some points. So let me just mention one of them, and that's biofuel. It is absolutely right that the figures that the government presented last year in the case of biofuels were at the optimistic end. That was then the best possible conditions for contributing biofuels. This cannot mean putting aside the idea of biofuels, but we need a nuanced debate on biofuels, where individual projects are assessed. Some of them would make sense. If we can get second-generation biofuels, either based on agricultural waste or on forest waste, that's a great opportunity for the world. But you need a concrete assessment. I was in Ghana last week. There are three Norwegian financial environments that will now invest in biofuel production based on jatropha, a plant that can grow in dry areas in Ghana. If this succeeds, it is a difficult opportunity. But there are also many dangers associated with it. You have to consider a case. If you're swirling up more CO2 by growing new areas than what you're working on, you can't do it. Is it such that more inputs are used on irrigation, fertilizers, etc. than what you get out, you can't do it. If you get a lot of problems with local farmers, you can't do that either. But let's start with a positive starting point, and then deal with the difficulties that had to arise. Let me finally quote Marianne Marthinsen-- that is. It's not her quote, it's Ink Wolf's, and that's what the debate is about: 'Use your head, we only have a globe.'
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e926	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e929	After hearing the article, I wonder again why the Progress Party was not even allowed to participate in the initial negotiations on a climate settlement, but was only set up at the same time. For the main issues addressed by the Council of State, e.g.: CO2 clean in Mongstad, the Progress Party fully agrees. In the case of rainforests, too, the Progress Party fully agrees, and we agree with the critical approach to implementation that the Council of State has. He also mentioned jatropha. The progress party has brought it up several times with the state council, and we've taken this up with the biomembrane. So it shows that we have a lot of points here that we could discuss very well. However, when one looks at SV's policy, a glide flow – from being against gas power plants to now being responsible in a government that builds two mobile gas power plants in central Norway and two gas power plants in Germany, which have a gas power plant in Mongstad, a gas power plant in Melkøya, which has said no to the concession for gas power plants with CO2 management in Melkøya, and which is responsible for Kårstø. Then the question is: At Kårstø, the government has told them to clean the CO2 by 2012. Is there a commitment that the Government is still standing by?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e945	Yes, it concerns all the obligations of that battle there, in order to answer it directly. I am not going to repeat all the arguments about why the Progress Party is not allowed to participate in the climate agreement, I have said that and explained very clearly in the past. If you do not see the need for an increased pension, or if you see the need for better care for the elderly, it is difficult to be involved in a pension settlement or an old-age care settlement. As long as so much energy is spent on questioning the basis of climate policy, it is also very difficult to include such a party in a real debate on climate action - even if you agree on some of them. As far as Kårstø is concerned, I believe that all these types of objectives, whether those are for Kårstø or for Mongstad, or for how quickly we can develop windmills at sea - which the Minister for Energy and Oil will talk about in a later article - are the aims of how we should put in all forces, political, economic and technological, to get it done. But the development of new technologies cannot be adopted; it can only be created. I even believe it was the Schirvengen in the Progress Party that once said that the future is not adopted, it is created.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e952	I fully agree with the Council when he says that conflict can contribute to development. The problem with today's government is that conflict most often contributes to stagnation. But the discussion that has taken place prior to the climate agreement was to a large extent about whether we should take the obligations at home or outside. Stoltenberg was also a strong contributor to it and believes blindly - at least blindly - on cost efficiency. If the Council of State wants to stand on its own principle, which fortunately was established in the conciliation, and on the principle of the Prime Minister, would it not have been a good idea to look at the EU? Now I'm thinking of a yes-man and I might have easier to view it as our own home market, just because we have some similarities. We're highly industrialized. We're about to be deindustrialized. The projects we can contribute to will have a major impact on all industrialised countries - instead of buying ourselves free through cheap projects in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e959	I feel that this debate on how much we should do at home and outside is very central, but it came out a little wrong from the start in Norway. It's because you didn't realize that the reason we have to do a lot at home is because that's what drives new technological development. Of course, it is true that using money abroad will speed up action, which will be cheaper. More CO2 is cleaned in a shorter period of time if it is done in China or India or in many other countries than Norway. However, the new technology will be developed in Japan, in California, in the EU, in Norway. And unless we, the most advanced economies in the world, make tough demands on our domestic industry, new technology is not developed quickly enough. There is also a main objection to what the Progress Party has previously come with, which is argument against doing things at home. Then we don't get the new technology that the world is totally dependent on in this area. Close cooperation with the EU, such as the most technological and economically advanced area in the world, with the United States and Japan and a few other countries, is crucial to succeed in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e971	In today's business, rainforest is one of the themes. The council says there that around Easter a secretariat should be set up, and it will be their job to decide how much and when to grant the money. I hope that it is also a political will in terms of when the money is to be allocated. The Christian People's Party has called for funds to be allocated to a fund, to show national will, which will be important internationally. But we totally agree that here we're not going to rush, but take the time we need. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that measures which primarily have an impact in the atmosphere should not be covered by the aid budget, but that all assistance should have a local development effect where it is used and be poverty-oriented. Does the Council agree with such an approach to this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e978	Let me just solve the formalities first. Of course, the Stortinget determines how much money will be spent, not this rainforest group. It's playing into the government, playing into the Storting-- just so we have the formalities ready. There is a large amount of money and a government that decides how much money is to be spent. We haven't seen the need to put this on a separate fund. We have a huge national fund where there's money that you can take off the day we have the projects ready. As for how this is to be phased into the aid budget, there is something the government will discuss at Thorbjørnrud this weekend, and we will of course come back to Stortinget and have a dialogue about. There is no doubt that most of the money we then choose to spend on rainforests can be counted as aid, and that it will be very stupid of Norway for our international reputation not to take it with us as aid. But the way in which this should be added to the increase - as we also need - to health, to education and to many other important aid purposes is something we will come back to the Stortinget with. Otherwise, I am very, very pleased with the confirmation from the Christian People's Party that we are not going to rush into bad projects, but with stone on stone building good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e987	As regards deforestation measures, the climate agreement states that the parties agree that Norway should signal the willingness to contribute to pilot projects to develop such systems as early as 2008. It must mean, for all practical purposes, that there will be money for this in the revised budget, which will be presented in a short time. Governments are far from suggesting that it is difficult to find projects that you can spend money on, to get started. I record that representatives of the Rain Forest Fund are of a completely different opinion and believe that such measures and opportunities already exist today. Does the Council now know that one will not find projects to which one can allocate funds in the revised, as I believe one has committed itself in the climate agreement? And how will the settlement partners be informed of such a breach of the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e996	My main concern is that since this is such a difficult area to go into, but also so important, it is absolutely essential that we go into it with something that has a solid foundation. But just to mention the opportunities that already exist today: the World Bank has a fund in this area. It is a fund for the Congo basin that the British have taken the initiative, but they have not managed to spend very much money from that fund, as I have seen it. It is possible to imagine that bilateral agreements can be concluded with Brazil as a state, but it also has difficulties. We already have such an agreement with Brazil, but it had to go through the United Nations Development Fund because Brazil could not conclude bilateral agreements with another country. We're not going to throw away one day or one hour to get this done. We are at any time willing to engage in a dialogue with the opposition on this. We just don't have to do anything that will make us know in a year's time that the money is abused. But Brazil is an obvious candidate as a country with which you can imagine having a bilateral agreement at an earlier date.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1004	It was nice that the Council of State distanced itself from the point of the Soria Moria Declaration that Kårstø should be cleansed in 2009 - then in 2012, which was the postponed date. That kind of glide flight I think is good, because it means that he thinks we can use the money more wisely. So let's see if he can distance himself from another point. That is the requirement for the implementation or allocation of climate allowances after 2012. In the debate on climate allowances on 18 December 2007, the representative of the Council of State, Thorkildsen, said that Norway has gone one step further than the EU when the Government has decided not to distribute free climate allowances after 2012. Now one of the EU's draft climate allowances directive knows that they are still planning to distribute climate allowances free of charge, if not in the same size as they are now. However, this means that the Government, if Thorkildsen is right, will provide Norwegian industry with worse framework conditions than the EU. Has Thorkildsen pronounced himself on behalf of the Government, or has she pronounced herself on behalf of herself?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1011	I would suggest to the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, that he study his own rhetoric. I will hold it up against the care of the elderly as an example. For example, the Progress Party is never heard to declare. that the government or other parties do too much in terms of the care of the elderly and spend too much time and too much effort in this area. In the climate field - and the Progress Party claims that they are concerned about it - the Progress Party uses all the time and energy to constantly complain about things that are being done too drastic, too strong. At the same time, you're mad that you're not being called into discussions about climate change. New technology cannot be adopted, but one can have ambitious and tough goals about when to achieve it. You can use money, political capital and administrative capacity to reach it. That's what we're trying to do in all of these areas. With regard to these free quotas, the trend in the EU is now the true opposite of the Solvik-Olsen here as a spokesman. It's going in the direction of more stringent regimes. We hope and believe that it will be in place in 2012 and that what Norway has done then is to go ahead with what the EU will do in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1018	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1021	Internationally, we are facing two trends that have a very strong impact on the climate: large population growth and strong economic growth. Both of these lead to increased energy demand. If the increased energy demand is mainly to be met by fossil energy carriers, this will result in dramatic growth in global CO2 emissions. This is simply not sustainable. Emissions must be brought down, do not continue to increase. Norway shall take its share of the cuts. We have a good basis in the climate agreement, and today we are to rejoice that we have a wide-ranging deal in Stortinget. This is the best guarantee that we will be an offensive environmental nation in the future. However, this does not provide any basis for leaning back. Dosing of instruments, the introduction of new and further development of known instruments must be a topic of course. When the goal is to slow global warming, we need to be focused on new great upliftment in the time to come. We need to focus on a wide range of technologies and renewable energy sources that can reduce emissions, and our goal is for Norway to become a world leader in the development of environmentally friendly energy. Through a strong commitment to research and technology development now, we can realise what is my clear ambition, namely that Norway will become a major exporter of renewable energy. The climate agreement means that this year we're adding 70 million. kr extra for renewable energy research and CO2 management. In 2009, research efforts increased by 300 million. kr, and by 2010 the public contributions to renewable energy research and CO2 management shall be at least 600 million. kr. This is almost half the amount spent by the Ministry of Oil and Energy on energy and petroleum research together this year. I recently received an assignment to Energy21. Energy21 is the joint energy research strategy of industry, academia and authorities. Energy21 supports the ambition for Norway to become an exporter of clean and renewable energy. The wind power of the outboard cutter will be part of the solution in the long term. In the climate agreement, we agreed to set aside 150 million. kr to a demonstration programme for the development of marine wind turbines and other immature energy technologies. This is a good start. Support for demonstration of new technologies is important. This phase is both costly and associated with a high risk for builders. We will also present a national strategy for power generation from marine and other marine renewable energy sources, including: The FOU, the concession system and the relationship to electrification of the cap will be assessed. We're going to take wise action now to secure Norway's leading position on floating sea winds. Until we are ready to harvest the sea wind, wind power on land shall be extended. Wind power break has been unwinded. Enova will announce a new round of investment aid at Easter times with possible summer allocation. We have two rounds of calls for support for wind power this year. We have taken action to provide the scheme with sufficient support to trigger projects. The objective of 3 TWh wind power in 2010 shall be achieved. The main tools of the government for the development of renewable energy and energy saving are Enova. Enova has recently submitted its report for 2007 and has passed 10 TWh in energy results. That's a good result, and I'm happy that Enova reaches the goals we've set. In 2007, Enova got its best result up to now with 2.4 TWh. This promises good for the future. But the results have to be even better. The government almost doubled Enova's budget from 2007 to 2008, and thus we will also be able to deliver further good results. In the agreement we agree on more resources for energy conversion, and therefore we are now stepping up work in all areas. We're going to replace fossil fuels and electricity with environmentally friendly solutions like district heating, pellet stoves, pellet boilers and heat pumps. Before Easter I will present a bioenergy strategy where the goal is to expand 14 TWh by 2020. But we also need to save more energy. The most environmentally friendly kilowatt hour is the one that's never used. Both industry, households and the service sector can contribute to a better environment by saving energy, while at the same time they can actually save money. My five minutes are fast. Let me just mention that the negotiations with Sweden on green certificates are going on. We have resumed our discussions and are in a good process. As Minister of Oil and Energy, I have a great responsibility in the follow-up to the climate agreement and in the day-to-day work to bring down national climate emissions. The responsibility is great, but it's not burdensome, because we know it has to be. There's simply no alternative. We must - and we must - succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1053	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1056	When I heard the council talking, I began to hum on the deLillos’ song “Next Summer”. There they sing about old songs that are sung again. These are the words we have heard since the then state council of Enoxsen began to talk about all that the government was going to do. Two and a half years have passed and few results have been achieved. That is why I miss talking about the use of hydropower. Governments mentioned wind turbines, wind power and bioenergy. But hydropower was not mentioned in a word. A specific question: I know that the Council of State cannot inform about the details of the negotiations with Sweden, but I am asking for a clarification of the principle by the Government. The Soria Moria statement states that in a green certificate market, the government does not want to have small power plants. Is there a policy that the Government continues to pursue, or is the Government flexible in this respect, when it is now negotiating with the Swedishs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1061	First, I must stress that the Government is achieving results in the field of renewable energy. That is not right, what the representative suggests nothing is happening. Let me just refer to Enova's energy output last year, 2.4 TWh. It's a significant contribution, and we know that the amount of Enova is doubled in 2008. That means that the results will come in even larger monn. With regard to the negotiations with the Swedes on green certificates, we have an understanding with them that it is not wise to talk a lot about this until we have the solutions clear. Which areas are going to be included in the green licence market, we're not talking about outwards, but I'm absolutely sure the representative is aware that the Swedish have some of the smaller hydropower in their arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1068	Does the Council of State Haga agree with the opinion of the President-in-Office, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, that the oil makes us 'climate bandits'? That's my first question. Question no. 2 I have picked up from the Central Party's websites, where party leader Åslaug Haga says that 'the EU is ready to be produced as an environmental locomotive', and that 'Norway lies miles ahead of track'. Is this representative of the Government's position on the EU - on issues where we rely in many ways on succeeding in the future? It is moving towards a UN Convention during the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009. How can such statements serve Norwegian climate interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1075	Let me start with the last one. I think the representative is quoting from a look-up in the nation. I do not recognize the term ‘wet’. That's a word I never use -- it hasn't been said. What is real is that Norway has an offensive environmental policy. The course on which the Government has embarked represents a significant rotation from the previous course. I am pleased that the European Union is also taking a more ambitious approach to the environment and climate, and I can assure the representative that we have an excellent interaction with the European Union in these areas. Not least, I have a close and good dialogue with the Energy Commissioner, a dialogue that I think is useful both for the EU and - definitely - for us. With regard to the use of the word «climate bandits» by the representative Thorkildsen, I do not have the full context in which this has been inserted - I have simply not read that article. What is the reality is that we're going to work systematically to get the emissions from the Norwegian base down, and I think that's an important task I have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1084	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government made sense and resumed negotiations with Sweden on a green certificate market. The councils were ready when she presented this before Christmas - and also in the press release - that the resumption was due to a political pressure from the opposition parties. The climate agreement says that if you don't succeed in the green certification market, you're going to have another scheme, which is just as good. But it also says: ‘From the start of a green certification market, renewable investment aid within the current notified scheme will be strengthened by opening up higher levels of support to trigger new projects.’ We know that just the level of support is what makes it not triggered as much new renewable energy as we need. When will the Council of State present the increased level of support for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1096	Firstly, with regard to the date of 1 July, I hope that we will have an understanding with the Swedes by then, which will mean that we do not need to think through completely new schemes in the field of renewable energy. In other words, I'm optimistic about getting those green certificates in place. It is absolutely right that in some areas we have too poor support schemes today. We are not able to release the renewable energy for which I believe we have the potential. It lies primarily in the area of wind. As far as that area is concerned, we have already signaled to Enova that the amount of aid must be increased so that we can realise projects. Then we use the established investment aid scheme, which has been notified in ESA. Now when we want to raise the support level, we have to go another round with ESA, but it's a simpler process. We're already working on this -- this is on the rails -- and I hope we can trigger new wind power projects quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1104	A significant increase in research efforts are among the concrete actions in the climate agreement that have aroused great enthusiasm in the research environment. There will be a hard fight about these means. The Thorium committee presented a setting that did not give the thorium lobby the drape it had hoped for, but it is already on the track and says it wants more research on this. In the view of the Left, Norway has a special advantage in terms of CO2 capture and the development of renewable energy sources, such as: sea windmills. It is in these areas that our technology and research resources should be prioritised. Does the Council agree that it would be in the spirit of the climate agreement to clearly notify that the increased research effort will not concern nuclear power and thorium, but renewable production and the development of CO2 capture technology? Historically, Norway has spent more money on nuclear research than on renewable energy research. That time must now be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1119	The Thorium report has now been consulted and the deadline for consultation is 31 May. But I made it clear already the day the report came, that, from my point of view, it is not relevant for the Government to invest large resources in further development within this field, primarily because there is so much else we can do. I then just mentioned the areas that the representative Kvassheim now addressed. We have a lot of work to do in connection with CO2 capture and storage. We have formidable assumptions to work with and further develop renewable energy. Then it's my clear belief that that's what we're going to do. I'm going to be really good enough to go round with my colleagues in the government after the consultation round on the thorium report, but I'm not in any doubt about what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1129	First, it's nice to hear the Government pronounce itself on the Thorium Committee. Even when the sample was reduced, Enoch concluded that he would not change his policy in this area. I am therefore not surprised that the Council of State is holding on to it. But I have recorded that both the Thorium Committee, the head of the United Nations Climate Panel and now the last time Hans Blix has gone out and said that nuclear power is needed to get a sustainable energy future on the globe, especially in relation to the CO2 debate that is currently underway. Then I would like to ask why the leader of the Intergovernmental Panel is wrong about nuclear power, but is right about all other climate issues. The Council of State said that the Government delivers results and referred to Enova. Enova was created long before this government joined. It is equally relevant to refer to Enova’s results as it is to point out that hydropower is still being produced. This isn't because of the government's policy, it's because of something they've inherited from others. The question here concerns gas power plants and CO2 cleaning. State Councillor Solheim went so far as to suggest that 2012 no longer applies to CO2 cleaning at Kårstø. Can we assume that such a floating figure also applies to Mongstad - that one implements Mongstad's full scale when technology is developed, and not in 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1147	I believe that the Solheim Council said something very wise, namely that technology development cannot be adopted. But we have definitely clear ambitions in this regard. Our goal in the case of Kårstø is as it has been, and as we have reported in our documents to Stortinget, that we should get it in place as soon as possible. In the documents it says no earlier than 2011-2012. We're working on it. The investment decision shall be taken in autumn 2009 and shall be kept on track. In the case of Mongstad, everything is also on track, both planning and thinking about investment decisions. So if technology doesn't play us a trick, the government is completely on track. As far as the use of nuclear power is concerned, I note that there is a major international debate on it. The political decision we have to make in Norway is whether that is what we want to bet on. My answer to that is that we have so many other important tasks that we should bet our money and our knowledge on CO2 management and renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1159	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1162	The government has presented a good and ambitious climate communication that provides a good basis for a united, good and forward-looking climate settlement. On a day like this, there is good reason to praise the Government for a good work, but also to a very great extent the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left for constructive and good cooperation. I think I can do our former, good colleague Jon Lilletun's words to mine: A good climate report has become even better! What's important in a climate debate like this is that we have predictability and long-termity. It's very, very important. It's important now to look at the big, total solution that we've got. I noticed that the speakers from the Progress Party said that there were so vague wordings in this climate agreement - they were so uncommittal. Let me just mention four very specific areas: it concerns flexible energy solutions on buildings over 500 m2. It's about renewable energy research - we've set up exact sums for three years to come. We have a committed objective of carbon neutrality in 2030, as well as objectives of transport and collective action. I just mention these obligating points of the agreement that are to be followed up. What I think is the greatest threat to predictability is linked to what government we get in 2009. Should it become a civil government, which will depend on the Progress Party on environmental issues, then there is a real danger. So to the challenges of the man-made changes in our global climate. That's where the challenges lie. The more research is done in this area and on these issues, the more serious we see that it is, and the likelihood that changes will happen, the stronger. Let's look at the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which clearly says that climate change is taking place, and that the changes are 90 pst. safety due to man-made emissions. These changes may have fatal consequences. One thing is that our children here in Norway may not be able to ski in the future, as they do today, something else is that millions of people in poor countries lose their entire lives. It's serious. Climate change leads to different challenges in different parts of the world. We can manage without skis, despite the fact that it roams with much of our defined Norwegian identity and culture, but millions of people around the world cannot survive without food and water. We are facing large movements of people and global challenges. How will the judgment of our children and grandchildren be in the future if we, today's leaders, are not trying to solve the threat of man-made climate change? Our way of living in the rich part of the world today is not sustainable. We can't go on with our lifestyle. Today's homeless consumer society must be regulated in many ways. And we can't blame that we didn't know better. Nor can we blame ourselves for having no resources or room for action to do anything. We don't have a single excuse for not doing anything in common. We have to act, and we have to act now. That's why we set ourselves the ambitious targets that the message and setting express and that are set. For that reason, we're both out and at home, and for that reason, this isn't about either, but about a boat and a boat. Our objectives are ambitious, and the previous speakers have been involved. So we're going to cut the CO2 emissions, we're going to meet the Kyoto commitments, and we're going to have carbon neutrality in 2030. These are important objectives. We have to make cuts out and at home. We also have to act internationally; that's where a lot lies. Major cuts in the future must be made in Norway. We already have to make it clear, and we have to be an example in this area. The debate and decision-making must not end here today. We must be on the move, and we must not least be impatient to get these things into port - even for our descendants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1187	This debate has two very clear features. The first is the systematic attacks on the Progress Party. The second is the disagreement between the climate comrades that comes to light. Let me say a little bit about the first one. Of course, it's always good to have an outside enemy. It has been read out and adopted as a good and important tool in policy, and in this case the external enemy is the Progress Party. We can handle that. But in spite of that, the Progress Party appears to be the only party that has a balanced view, which has expressed sound scepticism, and which has a desire for a diet-benefit effect in relation to the measures to be taken, and not as a party that denies that there are serious problems to take into account - because we recognize that - but we allow ourselves to have a balanced view. In the course of the debate, there has been quite a blatant attack on and not least from researchers who have a dissenting view of the international climate panel. What makes the representative of Thorkildsen better qualified and better able to assess these findings than persons with long-term higher education in the field? I was in there and looked at the CV of No Marte Thorkildsen, just to check whether there were traces there that could make her better qualified than the researchers she goes to banging hard attack on. I couldn't find a clue. But just as fully, we're going to consider it to be the most relevant and correct with that kind of hard-assed attack, both against the party that allows to have a balanced and healthy scepticism, and against others who dare to carry it forward. They are therefore declared completely crazy, and should - almost - not be able to take part in this debate at all. That, I think, is an untimely way of approaching a question that very many people are busy discussing, with different starting points. There is still a debate on these issues in society - in Norwegian society and in world society. That debate has not ended, although I understand that SV needs to declare it closed. Then it is important that we find out the correct analysis before we use the tools that may be completely flawed. So to the second, it's quite entertaining that you already shortly after you've spent weeks and months getting to a so-called climate settlement, you're tracking a significant disagreement between the settlement parties. We already saw it at the beginning of this debate, when Erna Solberg barricaded with Inga Marte Thorkildsen. Already there we saw interpretation problems in relation to the agreement. After the climate agreement, the right has denied that the settlement involves a charge for a rush time. That's what the equation is. I am registering that other conciliators are of a different opinion, but the Right believes that this is not the case. Here, we already see a great deal of room for interpretation of what the agreement involves. Then we have SV, which at Inga Marte Thorkildsen today is trying to create the impression that you're so worried that the oil industry hasn't been part of this. Why didn't it become a topic in these negotiations, if it was so important? Then I register that the Workers' Party is challenged by a number of settlement parties on how to deal with future oil drilling in the north. In other words, this agreement is very poor, and it is very uncertain what you really agree on when the measures are to be discussed. It tells me - despite the fact that there may even be agreement in this room on many of the main conclusions of the agreement, because there are many of them the Progress Party also agrees, among other things. the need to invest in renewable energy, the need for more research, and the fact that technology development is one of the most important things we can provide for the future - that the agreement is so low that it obviously also means that it will hardly be able to stand in the way of future government constellations, to say it carefully. Then I have registered that many of the representatives - not least for the red-green parties - express great concern about the gallup trend and what could happen at the 2009 elections. What you're saying is that you're deeply concerned that the Norwegian people can get a merciless sentence on the red-green parties and wish for another majority in the Stortinget. What is said at the same time is that the Norwegian people are about to make a very unwise decision if there are other parties to vote for power. It's such an arrogant way to approach the Norwegian people that I want to warn the politicians who have done it from this pulpit, against repeating those kind of meaningless warnings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1207	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1210	The parliamentary leader of the Progress Party states that the Progress Party is the only party in this Chamber that has a balanced view of climate policy. When she refers to a balanced view, I assume that it does not mean that she can take one position in one forum to then take a completely different position in another forum. In my view, it's unbalanced. I had actually believed that Siv Jensen would now clarify to Stortinget what was and is the climate policy of the Progress Party. Is it Per Sandberg's climate policy that is the current FrP policy, when he disputes that global warming is caused by CO2 emissions? Or is that Ketil Solvik-Olsen's? He says, here too, that the Progress Party - with the exception of increased fuel taxes - could have been in charge of everything in the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1220	There is no disagreement in the Progress Party on the climate policy of the Progress Party. It is unanimously adopted by our big group and is being discussed here today, among others. summarised through a number of points, a number of concrete proposals - much more concrete than those I record - that the so-called climate comrades have managed to arrive at after weeks and months of negotiations. Both Per Sandberg, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, signed and the rest of our big group is behind those proposals. We're going to repeat that kind of suggestion. We are going to come up with proposals that we think are sensible, both to reduce CO2 emissions and to do something about developments in the transport sector that we think are alarming. But our answer to that is to build better roads, convert the charging system so that we have the opportunity to buy more environmentally friendly cars at a decent price, do something with funding for research, facilitate conditions for better technology development, more aggressiveness in relation to renewable bets, etc. It is already on the table, and I have no reason to be ashamed of the decision of the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1230	As usual, the Advance Party is a victim in this room. As usual, the Progress Party feels that other parties are arrogant against them. Poor Prosperity Party. I ask Siv Jensen: please stop sucking, it doesn't really dress the representative! Also, admit that this is not about wanting a nuanced debate or having a balanced view ahead of you in the debate. This is about pure cynicism. This is about the fact that the Progress Party, as a populist party, knows that they can earn votes on spreading uncertainty about whether climate change really is man-made, and whether there is any sense in spending money on climate action when, instead, it can spread them into gasoline light, so that people can get petrol to eight dollars a liter. What makes me better able to evaluate this? Well, 2,500 scientists have counted, against 100, of which 43 are in the pocket of the American oil industry. Who's Siv Jensen up in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1240	When No Marte Thorkildsen can take words in his mouth as 'too old' with the future of the earth and a number of other things that do nothing but scare, rather than contribute to the balanced fact-making of something that is definitely nuanced among many of the world's leading researchers, I think it is a very bad thing. Let me repeat: the party of progress does not stop in this matter. We don't feel like a victim either, we can stand alone in this matter, simply because someone has to dry to carry to the other and alternative points of view. We intend to continue that, even if we are going to take part in the debate on action, although we are going to make very concrete proposals for amendments that we believe are sensible. But No Marte Thorkildsen confirms exactly what I said, that the debate on future elections accuses the Norwegian people of being idiots. It's the most serious thing because she herself wears to the square that the only thing people care about is the lower gas price. That's not what the Progress Party is trying to say. We're trying to say that there should be a dietary-benefit effect behind the measures this hall adopts. We owe it to the taxpayers before we burn billions of dollars that might not work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1249	For a long time on the part of the Centre Party, we have tried to get answers to some of the simple yes or no questions from the Progress Party. In the debate on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, the representative Tord Lien said that the Progress Party would clarify its relationship with the United Nations Climate Panel in this debate. That's why I ask: Does the Progress Party believe in the conclusions of the United Nations Climate Panel and are they willing to base their policies? Do they think it's right to do the cuts we've committed ourselves to through the Kyoto agreements? And: Is it so that the representative Siv Jensen actually perceives this debate so that here we all have the same good goals, but that the Progress Party will have cut in different ways than the rest of the parties on the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1256	I note that both Sande and a number of other representatives are obviously a bit tame, because they cannot have read the proposal the Progress Party has on this matter. We have given our clear assessments of this Kyoto agreement - which is not an international agreement, but an agreement between very few countries - which will be better at best if all countries are part of what is now the basis for negotiations. But it's not that it's uninteresting what kind of action you choose to take to achieve any goals. It is definitely not uninteresting what measures this room will end up adopting in order to meet the commitments agreed by the climate camaraderie in Norway. That's very interesting-- because someone's going to pay the bill. This one is the usual taxpayer. It's Norwegian business. We owe them all the time to make thorough assessments on the basis of decisions we make. So it's not our money, it's the taxpayers' money. It is a very healthy principle to include in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1263	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1266	On Friday I was in the Gloppen municipality, at Sandane and in the village of Hyen. There is a yard that manufactures speedboats. They have been innovative and use carbon fiber that gives half the weight of another boat, and they have half the fuel consumption of the products they produce, compared to just ten years ago. When I use it as an example, it's because much of what the climate challenges in the future are about -- and there I agree with Councillor Solheim -- is finding new technology, new production methods, and new ways of doing things. Therefore, it is so important that the instruments and choices we make are both fact-based and research-based, but also give incentives for new things, new products and new productions to come in the future. There I sometimes think that the Norwegian climate debate is getting a little weird, because there are so many opportunities for new things, but we experience that we are in a static world every time we're going to discuss this. I have faith in man's inherent ability to solve problems, and I have faith in man's inherent ability to create new technology. I therefore have a slightly more optimistic view of what we can do if, as politicians, we are able to play part in this rather than being opponents. When the climate communication came, there were many big words and few concrete actions. I said in the municipal election campaign that there were four pieces, and that I could fit them on a small yellow post-it note. That's absolutely right. I think we have significantly improved this, with stronger commitments and more measures - not least there are six parties behind that will in any case be obliged by the main lines and by the concrete measures put in place in the future. For the Right, we have been very clear that one of our most important demands to participate in a climate settlement was to ensure a significantly more powerful commitment to renewable energy. Our starting point is that our society is going to need more energy in the years that are coming, and that the rest of the world is going to need more energy. Climate challenges are great for us, but even greater for many other countries. Building forms of energy other than those we have today should be an important role for Norway. That's why we were so disappointed when the green certificate negotiations went down, and we haven't quite understood what it was the government was so afraid of. But we are happy that it came back, and we are happy that we have been given guarantees for alternatives that will help not everything stops. Now we have to admit that there are great potentials that we should contribute to in the future, both within small power plants, mini-power plants and micro-power plants, within and within the experimental and longer-term things. In addition, we've been concerned not to use whips, but that we're going to use carrots more. That is why we are pleased that, from today's government cutting off the reward scheme for the big cities on public transport, we have now received concrete promises that there will be a doubling of the reward scheme. And so we now have six games that have signed that, if it's relevant, it's going to be localized. This means that this is a local discussion and other instruments are equally relevant. This means that we have actually had a victory, which has made sure that the intense forces in SV so that the cash-flow charge is determined to be central cannot carry out that activity any more, because in the future such things have to be determined locally. So back to what I said initially. I think technology development is important. One of the reasons why the Right does not just use economic instruments in climate policy is that some of the economic instruments today do not provide fast enough technology development. The international mechanisms we have for development in the Third World and for better production provide technology transfer, but they do not provide new technology development. The European ETS can contribute to new technologies if the price is significantly higher than it is today, but today it does not contribute to it. That is why we have said that there must also be national objectives, there must be rules of authority, and it must be an ambition to develop new technology. Therefore, economic mechanisms are not the only answer, but they are an important response within climate policy in the future. I'm optimistic that this is the beginning of a better climate work in Norway, and that we might be able to get some of the little navigable debates out of the way to create a dynamic society that helps to solve the climate challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1288	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1291	The recognition of anthropogenic climate change based on known research results is the major political divide of this issue. I think it might be a good idea to clarify the actual opinion of the Right on this matter. In a speech to Nature and Youth's 40th anniversary, former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch warned of the strongest against the Progress Party. Willoch stressed that the Progress Party does not have any credibility in the climate issue, and stressed that the Progress Party could destroy Norwegian climate policy. Willoch said: ‘We must prevent control from coming into the hands of those who either still deny the existence of climate problems or who at least will not make mention of them in order to counteract them.’ Then I wonder: can Erna Solberg agree with the analysis made by Mr Kåre Willoch in the past? And could Erna Solberg possibly guarantee that the analysis will shape the Right choice of partners in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1303	I don't understand why the Labour Party spends so much time on this small debate in relation to the climate challenges as they are in the future. We have a world that grows dynamically and rapidly. The majority of the world's population lives in the big cities. We have tremendous climate action, and the Workers' Party believes that the Progress Party is the most important thing to discuss. I think they make climate policy small in this debate. And I have registered what Ketil Solvik-Olsen said when we presented the agreement, that he agreed with everything that was there, with the exception of the five ears of the fuel tax and the ten ears of the diesel tax that we agreed to - not because we believe that it is particularly important in the climate issues, but we did not think a climate settlement could shore that it would cost $1 and 92 more to drive from Bergen to Oslo. I think the Labour Party should have raised the debate instead of turning it into a small domestic political debate, when we face the greatest challenges we have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1310	It would have been tempting to ask questions to the Right regarding the rush time charge. It's okay to adopt it locally, but when you're rewarded for adopting it, it's kind of a mafia method, one of which says, if you do what I say, you're going to get the money, but if you don't, you don't get the money. Let me rather follow up on the petrol charge, because that was one of the points with which the Progress Party did not fully understand the point. We also do not want to increase the petrol charge. But if you take the charge that is already there - it's a CO2 tax of over 80 cents today - and if you assume that a car uses 1 gallon of petrol per mile and emits 200 g of CO2 per mile. km, which is much more than the average today, we will need a CO2 tax of 40 øre per. litres to neutralise the car park in Norway. Today, the CO2 tax is more than twice as high, and the agreement suggests that it should be further increased. Given that the CO2 tax is not earmarked for the climate supplement at all, but only goes straight into the big state treasury, what climate effect does the Right expect this increase in the petrol and diesel tax will actually give?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1334	No one! Five cents on the petrol tax does not have an effect on the climate. But it gave a very good climate improvement in the negotiations on the climate agreement that the Right could contribute with five ears. And as I said, I don't know anyone who can afford a car, who can't afford to pay NOK 1.92 more to drive from Bergen to Oslo. You won't get a caramel for that price soon! I think that the climate was very good because we actually said that we could also stretch in that area. But then I want to say: I think it is important that we replace cars in Norway. In fact, in order to reduce emissions from private cars, I believe that the way forward is to get more of the new cars into Norway. This means that we need to look at how we can make car charges better, so that they not only stimulate more environmentally, but also make it easier to replace cars. That is where I think the Progress Party and the Right agree. Last but not least, in the case of the drug-use-time charge: no charge should be imposed, but something must be done to help increase the proportion of public transport. In Sweden, the rush rate did not lead to an increase in the share of public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1344	Finally, I would like to mention that we also received a decision to set up Transnova as a trial project for three years. Then we were also provided with a detection on e.g. Transnova through this fee increase. But what I'm concerned about is, after the climate agreement -- what now? I have registered that Erna Solberg has been asked by - BA's readers I think it was - about what she would do further. What she says, at least, is that right after the election, it's going to take more action. Then I'm busy knowing what kind of action you're thinking beyond what the climate agreement is all about, because now Ivar Kristiansen has been concerned that at least we're not going to do anything about the oil industry. With regard to the debate on electrification, the Right had one view of the demands made on the government parties, on which they in themselves did not stand for anything harsh either, but they voted down corresponding proposals from the Christian People's Party and the Left in connection with the Skarven expansion. So what demands will the Right make to the Progress Party in any new negotiations after the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1355	At least I don't think I'm going to negotiate with Inga Marte Thorkildsen on what demands we have to make to the Progress Party if we're going to negotiate with them. I don't think that's going to be right for that recipient. But when we have said that we want more action, it turns out, among other things. that in some areas of the 61 points we had in the climate agreement, we did not get a pass. Among other things, we wanted clear rules of authority - for example. an ambition about how much emissions cars could have in 2020, that we should not have approved cars in the Norwegian market, and hopefully not in the European market, without a lower emissions. There we have a recommendation in the climate agreement. We would have wanted a stronger wording on that. We want to spend more money on research and development in general. It also means spending more money on research and development in these areas, and there we will find some of the new solutions. The representative of Thorkildsen can go back and look at all the negotiating requirements we had that were not implemented, and she will find some of the points of action that we might want to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1364	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1367	On 22 June 2007, the Government presented the Climate Change Communication. Despite Jens Stoltenberg's great words about leadership in the climate struggle, the message was met with disappointment in the environmental movement. Words like cowardly, empty talk, and a gastric plaque were used about the level of ambition that the government had put on. The progress party was the only opposition party that embraced the climate communication, which was talkative of the content. The Climate Communication contained two main concrete measures: the ban on the installation of oil boilers in new buildings and the ban on the landfill of biodegradable waste. In addition to this, the climate notification was an assessment message. We who know the government's assessments in different matters were concerned, because we know that the assessments often go in the direction that things are bad and difficult and not feasible. We therefore quickly realized that there was a need to make the climate communication much more binding. The industrial power regime and regional reform can serve as meaningful examples here. The Christian People's Party's environmental spokeswoman, Line Henriette Holten Heimdal, was the first to bring about a broad climate settlement on the Stortinget. We invited in the election campaign SV to get into the Stortinget what they did not get into government when it was an offensive and concrete climate policy. In the light of the lingering reception that the climate communication had received, the government also thought this was a good idea. The Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left were therefore invited into climate negotiations. I would like to commend the Government for seeking a broad settlement in such an important matter for the country. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Right and the Left for good cooperation in the climate negotiations. Prior to the negotiations, we managed to gather on 61 requirements for improvement of the message. These requirements led to a significantly more ambitious climate policy than government parties, particularly in relation to national objectives and actions. The requirements were well on the way, in line with the recommendations of the Low Emissions Committee, and would, if implemented, put Norway in the driver’s seat internationally. In the climate agreement, the government parties meet several of our most important requirements, although the sum of targets and measures lies a little away from the original requirement list. During the negotiations, it became clear that there is a significant difference in the approach to climate policy between the three opposition parties and the government parties. Today, however, when we make a climate settlement with the government parties, it is because we are confident that climate policy will be strengthened in key areas. Objectives, measures and instruments are being tightened up. The agreement is a bottom ground in Norway’s climate policy and is anchored in a very broad majority in the United Kingdom. Therefore, there is no reason for the concern expressed by the representative Tore Nordtun in his statement regarding what will happen after an election. No, with such a broad majority behind the policy, it is clear what will happen after an election. This will be the main focus of Norway’s climate policy beyond 2009. As a result of the agreement, Norway will now spend DKK 3 billion a year on the conservation of rainforests in developing countries. The measure shall be in addition to Norway’s over-fulfilment of the Kyoto commitments. I am obliged to draw attention to the fact that there is a disagreement between the parties to the agreement regarding the financing of the rainforest bill. The Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left believe, unlike the government parties, that the means of combating deforestation and climate action in developing countries as a whole should be granted outside the overall Norwegian aid framework and the Government's alerted escalation of this. For the Christian People's Party, financing climate action by means of aid at the expense of the world's poor is completely out of the question. In addition to the rainforest bet, the comparison involves concrete money allocations of more than 900 million. kr in the 2009 government budget. The effort is significantly strengthened in research and development. Large efforts are being made to develop offshore energy technologies, including offshore seamills. Research on new renewable energy shall be increased by 300 million. kr in 2009 and raised to the level of petroleum research by 2010. In the transport sector, the appropriations allocated to the rail sector and the public transport reward scheme shall be substantially increased. The Parties also agree to continue the green conversion of vehicle-related taxes. The Christian People's Party would have liked us to have come further to tighten up the national objectives of climate policy. However, we are pleased that we have managed to raise the government's lowest estimate of national emission reductions from 13 to 15 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020. This corresponds to the emissions of more than 800000 passenger cars per. years. The top estimate of the government has risen from 16 to 17 million. tonnes reduction by 2020, and this top estimate will reflect the level of ambition of the Christian People's Party for future policy work. In addition, we have made the government commit to carbon neutrality as early as 2030. This is a big deal. There are major lines of policy that are drawn here. It is promising that there is broad political agreement on large lines in a major matter. The more disappointing it is that the debate is so much about minorities in the political game. I'd like to leave that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1396	Despite the fact that there was a plurality in the Stortinget for the Government's policy based on the government party, I am very pleased that we got a broad climate agreement, and I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for the effort the party made in that context. A broad settlement is a clear advantage in such an important matter. It creates apparent clarification and stability in this area. When I choose to use the word seemingly, it's because there's a snake in paradise in this case, that's the Progress Party. Even if the Højbrätt ensures that the Progress Party will not have any influence on this policy, it is that if there is a civil government in Norway, the Progress Party will have any influence. What I'm afraid is that the Progress Party will lure with apples. I wonder how the Christian People's Party can guarantee that the Progress Party - which on all measurements is the largest bourgeois party - will not have any influence on politics in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1403	I thank you for the compliments, but I have to say that we will have another example in this debate of trying to make this a debate on what kind of government constellations we are going to have after 2009. It's definitely going to be clarified then. But what is clear now is that no matter what the government, these six parties -- which are probably going to be an overwhelming majority in the next big deal -- are behind this policy. Therefore, there is no reason for concern from either the Workers' Party or other government parties that at least the Christian People's Party will not support the agreement we have signed. We tend to do that, and we will also do that in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1410	I'll try to hold my tongue inside, so it doesn't lie long like a snake. Climate settlement: I recall the forthcoming Council of State, perhaps, in a Party of Advancement government with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, that a climate settlement was reached in 2002, where the Christian People's Party was involved. In that agreement, it stated, among other things: that one would not grant new concessions to gas power stations without CO2 management requirements. It was not followed up by the Christian People's Party, either by any other parties in this room, so it shows a little how much such settlements have been worth before. What I want to focus on is the renewable effort. The slope referred to those 61 points where, among other things, Talks very warmly about renewable energy. I fully agree that it is necessary, but the problem in what the Christian People's Party stated is that they should have 30 TWh new renewable energy by 2014, paid with a renewable fund of 40 billion kroner. A quick round on the calculator shows that one needs $300 billion to realize this. Where would the Christian People's Party take the remaining NOK 260 billion to show that there is realism in what they are presenting?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1422	Let me first say that Ketil Solvik-Olsen is wrong when he says that the Christian People's Party has not followed up its resistance to gas power stations without cleaning. It has been done by the Christian People's Party at every crossroad where it has been up, either in government negotiations or here in the Stortinget. So to the question of realism in those 61 requirements. I believe that one needs to see realism in relation to the enormous challenge we have in providing adequate power and clean force in Norway. The willingness to invest in clean and new renewable energy also depends on our willingness to invest financial resources in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1429	I will not ask Dagfinn about the relationship of the Christian People's Party with the Advancement Party. But I was a little concerned with some environmental-policy spokesperson in the Christian People's Party, and I take very much into account -- I'm making reservations about the correct oral quote -- that increased oil extraction would be a breach of the climate agreement. The climate agreement is clearly influenced by reductions in CO2 by 2012, among others. Is it so that the Christian People's Party looks isolated on the oil extraction in this matter, or do you see the totality there? Does this mean that increased oil extraction is something that cannot be allowed beyond today's level, without unilateral electrification from land?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1441	Of course, the Christian People's Party sees the whole of politics, and not least the whole of what kind of emissions the policy we decide to pursue in Norway results in. This must also apply when we consider new oil expansions. For our part, therefore, we are concerned that electrification must be an important topic when assessing new developments. But I can't imagine that our energy-policy spokeswoman has spoken out in such a way that we should be obliged to say no to new developments in isolation. This must be a misunderstanding on the part of the Nordtun representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1447	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1450	The central party's work on climate policy has been based on a political understanding of a commitment that takes the enormous challenges seriously. We have seen the need for the widest possible national consensus, both within the political environment and towards organisations and business. We want action in Norway as well as instruments that both deliver environmental impacts and can safeguard the competitiveness of industry. The climate agreement means that this is now possible. We are pleased with this agreement and will commend those with whom we have been negotiating, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, for constructive work during the negotiations. But this is not enough. During the last year, in addition to the interim reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a number of new studies have been published that contain even more frightening perspectives than the climate panel has presented. Among other things, the United Nations Environment Programme of 4 June 2007 in Global Outlook for Ice and Snow has underlined that extensive smelting in Asia, South America and Africa threatens the livelihood of more than 1 billion people in the next decades. Furthermore, global warming will cause dramatic falls in agricultural production over the next 70 years, according to a study by the Center for Global Development and the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington dated 10 October 2007. Several examples can be mentioned. They provide cash answers to the party's febrile attempts to minimize the man-made climate change. The climate policy of the Progress Party differs greatly from that of their preferred partners, and that is good both for policy and for the climate. One of the general principles of the climate agreement is that the polluter pays and that climate action must maximise the emission of effort. There is also a basis for action in the transport sector. One of the overall objectives of the climate agreement is that Norway will cut the global greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 30 pst by 2020. of Norway’s 1990 emissions. In 2005 and 2006, we had seen a slight decrease in emissions overall, but the emissions from transport are moving in the opposite direction. In addition to the petroleum sector, the transport sector is the main source of climate pollution. We therefore need to focus on this area in particular. Since 1991, road traffic emissions in Norwegian municipalities have increased by 31 pst. In fact, vehicles have become more efficient, so that more goods and more persons can be carried with less fuel, but this does not offset the growth in consumption. There are two main approaches that answer this challenge: we need to organise changes in consumption patterns, and we need to apply new technologies that are needed to reduce the environmental damage to a sustainable level. Well-functioning communities with short and safe access to shops, schools, kindergartens and other service functions reduce the need for transport. Future-oriented societal planning is therefore important to mitigate consumption trends. The centre party is committed to facilitating the use by city authorities of the pricing of cows/road pricing, i.e.: that they start to regulate the use of roads and use these revenues in an environmentally sound way. Attractive collective offerings are a prerequisite. We want a reward scheme for city councils that will try cow pricing. However, such measures must be determined by localisation. The centre party is also committed to changing car charges in a greener direction and increasing the allocation of public services and rail. The climate agreement has good measures in these fields. In the case of technology, the centre batch will focus on zero-emission vehicles and more emission-friendly vehicles. We will focus on the development of second-generation biofuels, which provide both good environmental and business opportunities for forestry. We want public enterprises to be in the forefront, and we want public cars to go on CO2-free or CO2-neutral fuel by 2020. Oslo Municipality has already shown that the environment and economy can go hand in hand. In 2005, they won Glass Bear for their work to reduce emissions from their own car fleet. This measure alone will save the environment for 690 tonnes of CO2 and the municipality for 4.5 million. kr - both economic savings and benefits for the environment. In order to achieve objectives on the transport side, action needs to be coordinated and new strategies and measures need to be developed. That's why we're in favour of the creation of Transnova. Here it's going to be set by a 50 million grant. kr over the State budget in 2009. Transnova shall, for example: used to increase the use of alternative fuels. The centre party is pleased that the climate agreement provides Norway with a long-term climate policy that can survive independently of changing governments. Such stability is necessary to achieve the objectives, both on the transport side and elsewhere. Even more knowledge of the severity of the climate challenges shows us that we have no alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1483	I record that the representative Breck is also trying to create a black-and-white picture of what the Progress Party stands for, and does not take over the nuances and references that we have tried to promote in this debate. I think that's sad. On the other hand, I hope that Breck can be clear on his own party and government policy regarding green certificates and small power plants. The Soria Moria statement states that one does not want to have green certificates that include small power plants, i.e. that small power plants should be excluded. Only micro and mini-power plants, wind power and bioenergy are to be included. Is there a policy that the Government is still behind, or does the Central Party now want a small power plant to be included in a green certificate market?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1490	First of all, I think it might be necessary to nuance the image of the Progress Party slightly in relation to the large picture created here in the Chamber today. I agree that there has been a development in the Progress Party as well, and I am pleased about that. I think it's useful for all the parties that we also take it over. With regard to the issue of green certificates, there is one issue to be negotiated with the Swedes in the future. We are concerned that the negotiations should be real, we are concerned that negotiations should result in increased commitment to renewable energy, and we believe that also having small-scale power stations in this context must be done to achieve good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1497	State Council Haga said in its statement that Enova is one of the main instruments for the Government to invest in new renewable energy. NVE is the concession manager. We know that the NVE is struggling with treatment capacity in terms of wind power and small power. But it is not only the NVE that is a challenge in relation to small-scale power, it is also the Government's changes to the tax system. Small energy is good environmental policy, it is good district policy and it is good energy policy. When the red-greens went to the elections, it was said that we were going to have predictability in politics. My question is then: what will the Centre do to remove the different bottlenecks - whether it is the NVE or the tax and tax system - that exist when it comes to developing more small power in the country as a good environmental and district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1506	I think there is consensus in this Chamber about the importance of Enova in the context of the investment in new renewable energy, not least in order to put in place good instruments that will have an impact both in the short and long term. We are also aware that the NVE has faced capacity challenges in dealing with applications for power development, both for small and small-scale power plants. Part of the reason for that, as I understand it, is that it's hard to reach people with skills, and it takes time to fill up the vacancies. I also understand it so that it gets better now. In the case of small-scale power plants and tax issues, there is one thing we have said that we want to address in the revised state budget. We'll get back to it in that context. We're concerned with predictability, like the replicator, and we're also going to be behind it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1515	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1518	When the Storting today deals with the climate announcement with such a broad settlement, I must admit that I came to the main hall today with the attitude that here it kept it from being unscrewed in the pocket, and that one did not need any sharper ammunition. So I squandered very much when the case-rapporteur, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, started his introduction, which led to an interview in the newspaper today where she expressed dissatisfaction with this climate agreement that she thought should have gone further, and went to the frontal attack on one of her conciliators. I have to say, I'm really wondering about this approach to this from SV. Firstly, I should be so clear that I dare say that I am sure that SV has done everything in their power to get the best possible climate announcement initially. And I'm absolutely sure that when it was possible to reach a climate settlement in the last instance -- and it was complicated and long negotiations -- it was not least because of an important effort from SV. So I don't think they have anything to be ashamed of. I am absolutely sure that they have made an important effort, and I also think that we could easily agree that if the Left and the SV were to make a climate deal together, we would have gone much further -- perhaps into the unrealistic, but we would have been happy. That is why I wonder very much about how the case rapporteur from SV could choose to switch to this. I wondered for a long time today whether I should use this opportunity to make me very amusing and confront the government side with whether the deal is now longer, and make some crisis around this, but I fell down to quote the good Kjell Aukraust, who said that «my brother did a lot strange, once he did in the well». So a little bit to the left approach to this. When you do such negotiations, there's a lot of spin and rumors going on around it. A rumor that I had to deal with a lot until the last hours before the settlement was concluded was that this went against breaking, and that the Left had no interest in a climate settlement and would be in opposition to everything that happened. It was a pleasure to enter into a climate settlement, knowing that we were far from being able to break any breach from the Left's point of view, because we were concerned about finding a solution -- not because we believe that in that way we neutralise all the climate debate in the future, but because we believe that we can get a new platform to discuss more exciting things about climate issues than we have been able to in recent years. Me and Left believe in the dynamics of this agreement, let's say. It contains many individual details. That's interesting and important enough, that. But it is primarily about technology development, which the agreement provides, from many approaches, new pricing of environmentally harmful behaviour, resources for research, etc. It's going to bring us far ahead. It's just to have a little side look at the big car show that's going to be in Geneva this week, how now the attention to new technology in the case of cars, is of an extent we've never seen before. The second is, and I think it's very nice to be able to say as the prime minister enters the main hall, the dynamics of this agreement and the entire new regime, that CO2 now has a cost. Although we have had a lot of debates about the need to have things in addition, there is no doubt that the conciliation assumes that the major instrument that brings us forward is that businesses and institutions now have a calculator that comes up with results different from what they did before, simply because CO2 emissions have a cost. It makes you adapt, it makes you put something down, and it makes you invest in new technology. It makes things go stronger in the right direction, we think. Then I would also like to have an address for two other parties in the run-up to my post. One is: what is the most political new when we now have a debate here on climate and the environment? Well, the most important thing is that the Right is in a completely different place in this debate than they were a few years ago, at my discretion. I say that with respect and honor for the good cooperation. It is something new that the Right is involved in an environmental and climate opposition. A new dynamic has been introduced into this political debate. I think it's been an important contribution to making it possible to get to where we are now. That's why I want to praise the Right for it. And I stress, as my good colleague, Mr Højbräten, that this climate agreement is also a parliamentary basis on climate issues not only in this period, but also in future periods. It stands for me as completely incomprehensible that it may be possible for some of the conciliators in this context to join a government outside this conciliation. Finally, I would like to say to the Progress Party that I respect the fact that they are concerned that there are nuances in this debate. I accept that. But even if there are nuances, there is so much doubt, even at the Progress Party, that the precautionary principle should be based. That is why action should now be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1541	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1544	The representative of Sponheim has repeatedly rejected government cooperation with the Progress Party. He has not only referred to the gap, but also particularly to the solid background that separates the two parties in environmental and climate policy. The aim of a broad settlement is to ensure that policies are consistent even with changing governments. When the games behind this equation represent almost 80 pst. by the voters, one would believe that there was little doubt and uncertainty at that point. However, I am concerned that the Left's government dream may not stand when they lean on the Advance Party. I wonder if the representative Sponheim can guarantee that the climate agreement will not be the subject of negotiations by a civil majority after the 2009 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1550	Although I have been assigned something else, I would like to stress that I can only speak on behalf of the Left - and that is a small party - when I now say that the Left will not negotiate away from this climate agreement. We're going to stand by that. When we think about the fact that in this big room we have also in a couple of other areas made a big deal that lays a clear framework for the next big period, I think about pension settlements and tax settlements, it's clear that it's inconceivable for us to engage in some kind of cooperation that somehow separates us from these comparisons. I believe that it also obligates other parties, which are part of these similarities, than the Left. I can certainly give those insurances. But it also gives an opportunity for a minority government to invoke, and say to the opposition, that we have some settlements, they apply, and one has to set up for the comparisons you've made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1555	Let me just first draw the attention of the representative Sponheim to the fact that the precautionary principle underlies the policies of the Progress Party. It appears clearly in the document No. The 8-proposal that we have tabled, which neither the representative Sponheim nor any of the representatives of the Left have read. I would also draw his attention to the fact that even the representative Per Sandberg spoke of the precautionary principle in a recent debate at Holmgang. In this debate, we have seen that, after all, the apparent agreement between the climate settlement parties is marked by great cracks and sparks. The representative Sponheim says that a settlement between the SV and the Bondevik comrades would probably be unrealistic, but that they would be happy. It reminds me a little of the climate agreement they made in 2002 - very few people today remember what they discussed at all and agreed on, and we see few results. I want to ask the same question to Sponheim that I asked to Høybräten: in the requirement list for the Left, there is a demand for 30 TWh new renewable energy by 2014 funded with 40 billion kroner in a renewable fund. If you want to realize that, you have to have $300 billion. In a realistic world, where will the 260 billion come from?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1564	Let me first stop a little by the precautionary principle. I also recorded that when there was a new acceleration in the contribution of the Progress Party in the debate on climate change settlement a few weeks ago, represented by Parliamentary Vice-President Sandberg, a lot of uncertainty was created about whether this is true of what researchers have come up with. He came up with some hundred researchers who have divergent views, and then he underlined afterwards, as the Solvik-Olsen mentions: we also stand for the precautionary principle. What is the problem? It doesn't matter if the fraction between researchers is 2,500 to 100, or 2,500 to 300. There's a lot of uncertainty about this. It's so likely that it's man-made that we have to act. In this way, the Progress Party should, in a completely different way, sign up to the debate and say that although our analysis and our starting point are different, we will take action. That is the whole point, and that should be the message of the Progress Party - not spreading uncertainty about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1569	I noticed that the representative Sponheim was stunned over my first post and pointed out that I had been under frontal attack on one of the parties to the agreement - I suppose the representative believes it is Erna Solberg, who tried to clarify what had happened in the internal negotiations, which we really should not touch here - and that I should also be dissatisfied with the climate agreement. I just want to dismiss that right away. On the contrary, we are very satisfied with the climate agreement. We would like to thank everyone who has stood by for an impatient opinion about the climate in Norway. There was a very big change of mood last year, which both Left and SV are very happy about. What I am very concerned about now, which all the parties behind the climate agreement are concerned about, is that we need to get what is in the agreement, in the port. In addition, we have to go some further steps. That's why we're asking: how will the Left and the others, with a big Advancement Party, ensure that we're able to go those steps further, including when it comes to, for example. The oil industry, in order for us to have an ambitious climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1578	Firstly, I understand the dilemma that SV's rapporteur has been in. The climate message was initially too weak. It said a total environmental movement. Then there has been a path from the climate communication to where we are today, where it has become a significant improvement. There is no doubt that the opposition here has played an important driving role. It has long been recognised by SV on the way. Sending some signals, as the representative expressed here in the room today, and as I read in the media, that SV would actually go much further, or that they made offers in the climate negotiations to which we said no, in order to get further, is completely incomprehensible to us. We came about halfway on our claim list. I really think it's quite impressive, given that the government had no need for a settlement at all. I believe that SV has contributed positively to this, and in this way SV has played a constructive role. I also said that in my post, which the rapporteur had heard if she was present. Then I would like to stress that this climate agreement for the Left is also to be seen as a parliamentary basis for the next period. It means that the government we're going to be part of, must be out of these parties - and preferably the bourgeois.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1585	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1588	The climate communication and agreement have given Norway a stronger, more ambitious and better climate policy than we had in the past. It is expressed in many ways, but not least, and in particular, it is reflected in the three fundamental and important objectives of Norwegian climate policy set out in the Climate Change Communication and the Climate Change Agreement. One is that we are going to overfill the Kyoto agreement by 10 percentage points in the 2008-2012 period. The second is that we are going to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 30 pst. of our emissions by 2020. The third is that Norway should become carbon neutral by 2030. There are three important objectives for several reasons. One reason is quite obvious: it will result in significantly greater reductions than the previous Norwegian climate policy objectives. Until the government presented its climate communication, the guiding goal of Norwegian climate policy was to increase emissions by 1 pst. by 2012 compared to 1990 levels. We had no goals beyond 2012, and we had no ambitions about carbon neutrality. So instead of having the goal plus 1 pst, the goal is now minus 10 pst. by 2012, minus 30 pst. by 2020 and minus 100 pst. by 2030. In addition to that, we are going to have huge reductions through deforestation. The importance of the new objectives is that it will simply lead to significantly greater reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from Norway and from other countries, funded by Norway, than the original objectives. There are 5 million tons, 15 million tons and 50 million tons of reductions in addition to what was already promised. The second important aspect of these objectives is that Norway is thus contributing to early action. Everything we know about climate change is telling us that something needs to be done, because greenhouse gases are such gases that we cannot take back from the atmosphere. In fact, it is not the ongoing emissions of greenhouse gases that are the main problem, but it is the accumulated, the accumulated inventories of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere that are the problem. That means that even if we were to manage to reduce emissions a lot by 2050, if we haven't reduced emissions in the next ten years, it's too late to stop growth in a few years. Therefore, early action is important. 1 tonne reduced today produces much greater power than 1 tonne reduced tomorrow. It is estimated that reducing 1 tonne today produces about five times as much climate impact as reducing 1 tonne in 2020. That is why the objective of over-achieving by 2012 is perhaps the most important objective, which has received little attention, but which is that we should do something in the near future and not in the distant future. The fact that we have to over-achieve is an important part of the new goals we have. The third reason why these objectives are important is that they are not the goals we should pursue to possibly achieve, but there are commitments that will certainly be implemented. How much of e.g. The overfill of 10 percentage points -- that's about 13 million tonnes -- that we're going to cut by 2012, that's going to happen at home, and how much of what's going to happen out there may be uncertainty about by 2012. But what's absolutely certain is that we're going to drop 10 percentage points, because what we're not doing at home, we're going to do out. So it's going to be minus 10 percentage points in the Norwegian climate accounts until 2012. What is crucial is that we reduce emissions. So these aren't any goals we might be reaching. These are the obligations to be implemented. There will be a combination of measures out and measures at home to reach minus 10, minus 30 and minus 100 pst., plus efforts against deforestation, in the next few years. When we presented the climate announcement, the government invited the same day, at the press conference, to a broad climate settlement. I am very pleased that it has become such a broad climate settlement. It's an exercise here in Stortinget that one boasts of one another when one has made a settlement. It is at least a pleasure to commend the opposition for having made a settlement, and they commend us for having made a settlement. What is really a settlement is that you're happy with each other because you've contributed, you've stretched out, you've got a girl and you've got a deal. It is essential that we have established a permanent basis through this agreement, and we have formulated the three overall objectives of Norwegian climate policy that it will be guided by. When we made the climate announcement, it was clear that it was a beginning. We saw a continuation through the climate communication. There will be new initiatives, new actions, but the three overall objectives will remain and will be implemented. So now there's a very broad majority in the Biggest for that, and that's good. The Progress Party has chosen to stand outside the broad agreement on climate policy in the Norwegian metropolitan area. They have, not least because of two relationships. One is that the Progress Party is still a party that doubts the scientific basis for action against climate change. The very basis for action is that you fully recognize that this is a problem. When the Progress Party at least double communicates, and as late as a few weeks ago again talked about climate hysteria and repeats that there is great scientific uncertainty, the scientific basis for doing something about the greenhouse effect and global warming is undermined. I myself was at Svalbard and as fjords that have always been iced in winter. Now they were ice-free. So there are not only scientists who can see that there are climate change going on, because there you can see with the naked eye that there are dramatic climate change going on. I believe in the scientific basis, and at least I'm so sure that I think it's completely irresponsible to ignore the serious scientific warnings we get. Therefore, the policy of the Progress Party is irresponsible when they talk about climate hysteria when climate researchers present these kinds of scientific facts. The second reason why the Progress Party has stood outside is that they have progressed and have still not fully accepted the very core wall of all climate cooperation, namely the Kyoto agreement, which is the building block, the foundation wall for all reasonable work to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. They voted against it when it was adopted in Stortinget a few years ago. They are still not in a position to formulate clear support for the Kyoto Agreement. These two reasons lead the Progress Party to stand outside this broad and important agreement. It must create problems for future negotiations and discussions about a government in which the Progress Party had to have ambitions to participate. The climate problem is a fundamental international problem. There are probably no other environmental problems that are more international and global than the climate problem. It's due to two relationships. One is that greenhouse gas emissions do exactly the same damage wherever the emissions occur. Most other environmental problems have a greater local impact than global impacts, while greenhouse gas emissions do the same wherever emissions occur. This leads to the second relationship, namely that this is a problem that can only be solved through strong and committed international cooperation. In addition, the climate problem becomes a fundamental international problem because it is so closely linked to today's second main challenge: poverty challenge, the fight against poverty. I visited India a while ago. In India, there are over 1 billion people. About half, that's close to 500 million people in India don't have access to electricity. India has a lot of coal, and they're going to build coal-fired power plants to supply electricity to the people who live in the country, so they get light, heat and water in it -- completely basic well-being that we think is natural. We cannot deny India economic development. We cannot refuse them to fight poverty. What we have to do is to help them get a technology, that they get a content in economic growth that is more environmentally friendly than the growth we've had in the rich part of the world. What is called climate quotas, the green development mechanism, the Kyoto mechanisms, are different technical solutions to achieve something quite fundamental: that the rich world transfers money, capital and technology to the poor world, so that we are able to reduce emissions both in the rich world and in the poor world. The poor world is not going to carry the bill to clean up environmental problems that the rich world has created first and foremost. Therefore, these mechanisms, such as allowances trading and the green development mechanism, are crucial both to reduce emissions and to balance the differences between poor and rich countries. Therefore, Norway will use these instruments, precisely to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1622	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1625	I noticed that the Prime Minister stressed the point of making a settlement. A significant part of it was to commend each other for making a settlement, not necessarily taking concrete decisions. This agreement is suspiciously similar to the agreement on parental care concluded before Christmas, which also did not lead to a single change for the elderly in this country. So the prime minister said something was urgent. At the same time, he criticized the failure of the Progress Party to act. Let me just stress to the Prime Minister that there will only be a vote on a single proposal in the Chamber today when dealing with this matter. It is a proposal from the Progress Party which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote Kyoto measures in line with the proposal in Document No. 8:97 [[2006-2007]] This is what the Workers' Party's big group is voting for, this is what all the other parties in the Storting down vote for, despite the Prime Minister saying that something has to be done about it. The climate agreement on which it is based does not offer a single decision. The question to the Prime Minister is whether he thinks it means that something is really going to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1641	The answer to that is yes! Firstly, the climate communication provided for increased use of instruments and reinforced objectives. Secondly, it was put into practice and strengthened by the negotiations here in Stortinget, for example. we know that we're not going to be carbon neutral by 2050, but by 2030. It will mean that Norway will have to assume significantly greater commitments to finance emissions reductions in the poor world earlier than we would otherwise have done. For example, we have made concrete and numerical efforts to reduce deforestation, and we have numerically fixed the effort, among other things. to strengthen the railway. This is a settlement that is going to have concrete consequences, just as the Single European Act put forward concrete measures. The government is already running. We are already in the process, among others. to implement Kyoto measures on a large scale. We buy quotas, finance climate action in poor countries and, in addition, invest in large-scale measures at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1650	I understand that you shouldn't praise each other -- that wasn't the deal. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question that concerns part of the 61 points where we did not get a say in the Government, all of which were based on a slightly different philosophy from that of the Prime Minister, namely that we are not going into port just using the Kyoto mechanisms, the green development mechanisms and using the quota system with the EU. There is also a need to use other instruments, including: in order to achieve more and new technologies that are not lifted by these instruments. My question to the Prime Minister is: does he now see that with the prices that are today, and with the experience we have with the green development mechanisms, the question of getting new technology is not solved today by these mechanisms?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1666	I am strongly attached to using market forces as a servant, not as a master in climate work. I am strongly in favour of having large public research appropriations, but it is amazing how it helps when private also being mobilised. I'm e.g. absolutely sure that once we've made sure that 70 pst. Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are subject to either CO2 tax or the EU ETS, which will lead many Norwegian private companies to research a great deal to develop new technologies. I can't believe there's any contradiction between being for public research appropriations and doing what the representative Sponheim had to do with the driving forces of the economy, changing the very structure of the economy by making it unprofitable to pollute and economically clean, by introducing, among other things. a CO2 quota system that allows Norwegian companies that do not care about the environment at all to develop environmentally friendly technology simply because it is very profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1679	Since 1990 greenhouse gas emissions have increased by between 8 pst. and 10 pst. above 1990 levels. The climate agreement states that we should use the allowance system both within the EU system and also the CDM quotas, especially in over-fulfilling, these ten percent. The Prime Minister stated that early action was important. It is also important that we take action in Norway. My question to the Prime Minister is: What measures does the Prime Minister think we can take early here in Norway, so that we can also manage some national measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1686	I believe that in the communication and in the agreement we point to many measures that can be implemented early, type of railway investment, type of CO2 cleaning from gas power plants, new building regulations that will reduce energy use in new buildings, and also bet on other types of technology development. So we're going to have big and small measures that help reduce emissions here at home. But basically, I don't fully understand the contradiction between doing things at home and doing things outside. Why it's going to be a little less worthwhile to reduce by a tonne in Poland compared to a tonne in Norway, I don't understand, because it's vital that the number of tons released into the atmosphere goes down. That is why we have to tackle the total emissions. So let's do that through the quota system. That's what the previous government was working on. That's what this government is working on. It is essential that emissions go down and that Norway takes responsibility for bringing them down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1694	No Marte Thorkildsen, who is the case rapporteur and the main figure of the government parties in this matter, has said that if we are to further develop the climate agreement, the oil industry must be taken hard. Among other things, oil drilling/activity on the base outside the Lofoten and the Western Seabed must be rejected. I know the Prime Minister disagrees with that, so I'm not going to ask you that. I am more uncertain about how he responds to Mr Thorkildsen's demand that you have much clearer control signals and set a stricter framework for StatoilHydro's activity. The representative of Thorkildsen wants a policy to be pursued towards StatoilHydro, which means that they cannot invest in oil sand projects in Canada and that they cannot operate with oil drilling in Alaska. Will the Prime Minister ensure that the Government meets the expectations of the main stakeholders in the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1703	Firstly, I would like to say that the Norwegian oil and gas industry is the world industry that has seen the lowest emissions compared to production. Secondly, I do not know any other oil and gas industry that has stricter framework conditions than the Norwegian oil and gas industry. No other EU country has allocated zero free allowances. The Norwegian oil and gas industry is, as far as I know, the only industry anywhere in the world that makes absolutely zero quotas emit CO2. They have to pay for every gram of CO2 they emit, and it's going to make them very busy reducing their emissions. Then we have to have international agreements that make not only strict demands for Norwegian capped emission reductions, as we do now through the quota system, but also make strict demands whether they are in Canada, Alaska or elsewhere. That is why I am a strong supporter of the fact that we are negotiating a new Kyoto agreement, with even more stringent emission requirements than today's agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1716	I want to go back to the last exchange of lines between myself and the Prime Minister, because the Prime Minister just kept talking about the objectives without talking about the measures. It's interesting for people out there to know what to do, when to do it, what it's going to cost, and who's going to be hit by it. The Prime Minister just tried, in his reply to Erna Solberg, to minimize the fact that, through the recently adopted Climate Change Quota Act, even the most environmentally friendly companies in Norway will have a competitive disadvantage over similar businesses in Europe. In addition, the CO2 effect is said to be close to zero. It does not depend on the rhetoric of the Prime Minister and the settlement parties in this matter, and I think the Prime Minister can go into that further. Then I fully agree with the Prime Minister when he says that there is no difference in doing reasonable things in Norway or Poland, as long as it is done. How, then, does it harmonize with the fact that the settlement parties now boast unrelentingly that two-thirds will be taken in Norway, when the Prime Minister has repeatedly said that it is pointless to figure out where the cuts are taken, as long as they are taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1726	The government considered that the instruments we had described, for example: climate allowances, also leading to reductions in Norway. It is a misunderstanding to believe that climate allowances only lead to reductions abroad. The point is that when Norwegian companies have to buy allowances, they will make great efforts to reduce emissions in Norway to avoid buying allowances. That's how the market works, and it has an incredible power when it works the right way. So the quota system is going to lead to reductions in Norway. We estimated that this could lead to reductions in Norway of 13-16 million tonnes. Now we estimate, with the new instruments, that it could be 15-17 million tonnes. There's 1 tonne on top. We're going to be able to do that through the tools we have in place. After all, we have fixed the number of home-reductions in 2020. We have not chosen to quantify the distribution at home-out, i.e. on target one, over-fulfillment, or carbon neutrality. So this number fixing here is completely manageable and does not break the principles of the climate communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1733	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1736	There's reason to remember that we're dealing with two things at the same time. We are dealing with a proposal from the Progress Party, where we point out a number of active environmental measures that can and should be implemented and which the other parties of the Storting reject, and we are dealing with the climate communication itself. There is reason to point out that the transport sector is identified as a kind of main enemy, at least domestically, in terms of climate hosting. That view does not share the party of progress. There is one of the many differences that characterise the environmental policy perspective and the environmental policy difference between those behind the climate agreement and the Progress Party. It is possible to have an environmental policy based on a number of fundamental stones other than a one-sided climate base. I'm going to try to go a little bit closer to what's related to the transport sector, but I already want to point out that another difference between all the climate camaraderie and the Progress Party is that we are promoting concrete proposals that can provide a better environment. A little later today, all parties will reject a proposal from the Progress Party to modernise the Norwegian railway system, facilitate a much faster investment and make the Norwegian railway more modern. It's going to reject all parties, despite the fact that in other contexts we talk very much about how important it is to get the good environmental impact of having a modern railway network. The rest of the time I will use for the climate communication itself. It is true, as the Prime Minister said, that we are skeptical of the scientific basis. We think it's healthy and good to listen to those who are increasingly promoting a scientifically based scepticism. We believe that a very rapid precautionary principle can become a dangerous early principle and have some consequences that we have not thought about. We have a fresh reminder from the Environment Minister today in the Newspaper, which he himself had in a previous post, that biodiesel might have some consequences that are not quite good in the environmental context. Science is neither a democratic process nor a political process. Truth is not determined by vote in plenary. Consensus is a political concept. Nevertheless, climate policy is strongly influenced by consensus, that it is more important to agree than to have a sober and factual relationship with what is actually to be based on consensus. Climate policy does not only provide strong guidance on consensus. It also contains rejection and ridicule of the views of others if it is not politically correct. Modern-style witch-burning is actually the rejection, stigmatisation and punishment of scientists who not only claim a different view from the politically correct but assert it with strength. It's happening now. The review they get is not very pretty. I'm going to give an example: a Russian climate expert who recently talked about getting a new ice age from 2055, is referred to as this by Director Pål Presterud in CICERO: "They're spiderville and crazy." But Presterud makes it clear that he doesn't know the current researcher. Before where can it turn out to be dangerous soon! It may prove that we are in favour of totally useless and totally unnecessary measures in the hurry and rush. When the Progress Party has said so clearly that we can support very many of the proposals in the climate agreement, it is because, among other things, they are. provides good energy leads. It is possible to have an environmental policy based on the fact that it is important to have a well-corrected energy vision. So you can be involved in a lot of what's suggested. But the Progress Party warns against, is totally useless and totally unnecessary taxes, it is totally useless and unnecessary public intervention, and it is totally unnecessary and useless fees, even if they are legitimized in a political correctness - which does not have a scientific basis but a political consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1751	Clean air, clean seas and a balanced nature are among the basic common resources of men. We cannot leave everything to the market and free competition to take care of these common goods. Climate problems are the greatest environmental challenge of our time, while there is an environmental problem related to the fight against poverty. 1.7 billion people today live below the poverty line. A total of 2 billion have no access to electricity. Access to energy will therefore be one of the main factors in raising the standard of living among the world's poor. Unfortunately, fossil fuels will continue to be the dominant energy source and stand for 84 pst. of the increase up to 2030. This is a challenge. But the current government has ambitious targets for the Norwegian industry to develop CO2 capture technology so cheap that it can be used by all countries in the future. History tells us that we in Norway are good at developing technology. In the mainland industry, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions has been actively pursued since the climate problem was put on the agenda. In fact, the first climate agreement was concluded by then Environment Minister Thorbjørn Berntsen in 1997. As a result, the specific greenhouse gas emissions from the aluminium industry were reduced by 62 pst. The Norwegian aluminium industry is the world leader in climate efficiency, and it tells us that doing something is useful. It's another thing that's important in the big climate debate, and that's how we communicate the climate challenges to the children. It is the generation that is going to carry on our actions, and everything speaks for the 21st century to go into history as the century when the world went from poverty to prosperity, and that world they will rule. Are we good enough to convey to the children the values of a good climate, and are we taking the time to explain reality? Today, psychologists tell us about minor children who don't think they're going to experience adulthood, because people are about to destroy the life base on Earth. I have experienced for myself that a boy of eight years thought he would drown if the ice in Antarctica melted and the sea rose by 1.4 meters. Nobody said this would take many years. But we have to prevent that from happening. One girl said to her mother when the family was sitting talking about the expansion of the house they lived in: there can't be any joke, Mom, because soon it'll be there again, and then we can't live here, and maybe we'll die. Have we properly communicated the climate challenges? But communicating the climate challenges on a progress-driven basis will probably make children even more confused. When a political party, among other things, does not recognise man-made climate change, does not support the Kyoto agreement and is opposed to cutting anything at home - this in order to avoid changing lifestyles - it does not become very credible for children or adults. They cling to the notion that climate systems are too big to be influenced by people, and that the climate challenges facing the whole world are just hysteria and scare propaganda. The worst thing is when the Progress Party claims that UN researchers and large parts of the environmental movement have economic interests in maximizing climate change. Is it so hard to relate to a slightly unpleasant reality? And where is the respect for the world in which we live? In their eyes, the authorities of Saudi Arabia, the current president of the United States and American-Arabic coal and oil companies, are the ones who hold the truth. How long will the Progress Party operate by double communication? I am excited about which parties in Norwegian policy will eventually cooperate with this party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1777	For the Right, it is important to state that we are satisfied with the settlement that has been concluded. It is firm, independent of future constellations after 2009. The most important thing, though, is that we want to go on. The equation is good at a number of points, but not offensively at a number of other points. Let me mention something. Today, we need to do everything we can to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. We have to make our footprint as low as possible, and we have to make major reductions in Norway. Carbon neutrality in 2030 is a major improvement, but our goal must be and cannot be anything but the zero-emission society. That means that we have to contribute to bringing together our emissions, and we have to use the technology that has existed over a long period of time, namely carbon capture and storage. If the moon landing is ever to become a reality, we need it to go off as soon as possible. It is therefore disappointing that the Prime Minister himself does not see that there is a difference between taking a cut out and at home. Taking 1 million tonnes in cuts in Poland versus Norway is, in fact, of great importance, for two reasons: The first is the signal effect of us as one of the world's richest countries actually dry and have the ability to reduce, we too, and not just buy ourselves free through a system of yields. The second is that we need to become a much stronger driver of technological development than today. We do that much more strongly by taking the same emission reductions at home. It's man-made climate change. The global warming we see now is largely due to our own mistakes and omissions. And to get away from it, there's one thing that helps, and that's action. That action doesn't just give us challenges, it gives us opportunities. When Aker now spends NOK 1 billion on showing that it is possible to use carbon capture and storage in Norway outside StatoilHydro, they do it for two reasons, I think. The first is, of course, that they show social responsibility, and that's good PR for the company, but the second and driving principle is that they think this is profitable in the long term. I would also like to say that it is very important that we get two environments that compete with each other to find the best solutions for just one of the cornerstones of Norwegian environmental policy: carbon capture and storage. Now that Sargas has come up with a technology that they themselves believe can deliver purified coal power to 30 cents/kWh, it also tells us in Stortinget. One thing they're saying is obviously that Norwegian gas will be worth less if you get it done. The second is that the world's hunger for pure energy is largely solved by the kind of technologies that supply power to 30 centimeters/kWh. Let me then get into the technology track. It's a pleasure to see that it's not just private companies that deliver there, but from the public we deliver too slowly in technology. I'm a fundamental future-optimist. I believe in progress, and I think technology is going to mean important progress for Norway. But as far as technology is concerned, our task as politicians must be to build a wider professional environment and to bring together researchers who want to do precisely climate research, instead of having small but scattered professional environments. When Toyota spends an estimated $40 billion a year on research, it is also based on the idea of profit, that they will have opportunities in the future that they would otherwise not have. We should do the same in Norway, for a different purpose - that we will then be able to contribute to technologies in the field of environmental technologies that the world would not otherwise have seen or received. We must not look blindly at cost efficiency. One of the problems I see with the Prime Minister is that he so unilaterally promotes cost-effectiveness also in terms of the technology track. Norway’s main role in the fight against climate change is precisely that we have to stand firm that we have to dry down important positions at home that will also cost money. In conclusion, let me just say that the Right is a driving force for broad civil cooperation. However, when a new government takes place in 2009, environmental policy remains firm. We made a deal here, and we're on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1801	The President will remind you that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1804	The climate agreement is an important step towards achieving a global action that focuses on the future of the planet. The big goals are being set today. It is our responsibility to interpret the research results currently available, and rarely have such results been more unambiguous. Never has the question and the problem been bigger. Therefore, the most important thing in the climate agreement is that a broad political platform has been created for further work. This platform will be the starting point for the work that Norway has to undertake to do internationally in order to reach a global agreement - an agreement that can contribute to large enough reductions, so that we can achieve the overall result of today's decision as a small part of which the Minister for the Environment underlined. The key element in the globalisation of climate communication is the political recognition of the seriousness of the research results, a political recognition of which we set out an action-oriented pattern with the recognition of the existence of man-made climate change as the basis. It is only the Progress Party that does not accept this political recognition. In today's debate, Solvik-Olsen tries to justify his critical position, a justification that goes back to his university days, where the lesson was to ask critical questions about already known hypotheses. What Solvik-Olsen comes with is a strong recognition that the Progress Party will not take a stand on the foundation and the very reason for having an active approach to the issue, while the climate reconciliation confirms this as the greatest challenge facing humanity. When Erna Solberg rejects this fact as a domestic political theme in its approach to the Progress Party, there is cause for concern. Solberg says that the Progress Party's approach to the climate issue is subject to possible future cooperation between the Right and the Advance Party. I think it's a straightforward clarification. Trustworthiness begins with recognition. There is reason to think a little about Solvik-Olsen's contributions earlier today, where he said that the entitlement of the Progress Party to participate in the climate debate is as great as SVS in relation to the NATO debate and the Central Party in relation to the EU. But there's a significant difference, because SV, as far as I register, has not denied the existence of NATO. Nor has the Centre Party denied the existence of the EU. But the Progress Party denies that the climate challenges are there. That's what's the significant difference. Solvik-Olsen chooses to ignore the fact that it is in terms of the political recognition of the existence of man-made climate change that the Progress Party comes out differently from the other parties in this Chamber. And it's on the basis that it was and is a danger if the Progress Party gains more political power than the Party has today. The Progress Party is a threat to the work that Norway is going to do internationally for the climate and the life of the future on the globe. This is not domestic policy. There is a weakening of Norway's international voice, which I also seem to emerge from this debate. Confidence is not created as the Progress Party does when Per Sandberg warns against climate hysteria and believes the Government and Erik Solheim bombs in environmental and climate policy. What Sandberg says is really the following: everyone other than the Advance Party is wrong. He's really saying that the climate agreement is a wrong conclusion. He also said directly that the climate panel is wrong. As a small reference to Thorkildsen's CV, there might as well be a good reason to put a question mark on Sandberg's CV, if that's what's going to sound the debate. And that's what the challenge is in the future. Those responsible for the climate agreement must take today's debate and such opinions very seriously. Such policy conclusions are just as serious for future life on the globe as the greenhouse gas emissions themselves. Today’s delinquency is the beginning and stage of a long chain of actions that must come in the years to come, and where our national voice must be strong. Therefore, climate reconciliation requires political firmness over the years - firmness in order to achieve a global agreement that reduces greenhouse gas emissions, so that we preserve the planet's life in the future. I think that the Progress Party is in the process of weakening, and I also think the lack of clarification of the Right is in the process of weakening that future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1823	In the ongoing climate debate, which is largely characterised by a policy of oversupply, it appears that the most important thing is to be the best in the class. Here's the easy use of percentages -- usually as high as possible -- that's important. To propose real measures that will produce results does not seem to have the same meaning, only climate camcorders can point to a high percentage for cuts. Someone's probably aiming for a place in the history books like the one that suggested the greatest cut. I think unfortunately the history books will show another story, another phenomenon from the period we're in, namely the time when we saw the beginning of a historic industrial flight from the country. There is no doubt that the major industrial production players have now gained new arguments for adding new investments abroad, to countries that may not be so rich that politicians in those countries feel that they can scald and choose with industry as it always suits them. Climate camcorders seem to be more concerned with national targets than they are with minimising CO2 emissions globally. We have had the introduction of strange environmental requirements under many governments, and now we may have been given the example of how political labelling can be at the expense of securing Norwegian jobs and investments, namely the strange additions to the climate quota law. Today's quota segment is a major obstacle to investment in companies with CO2 emissions on Norwegian soil. In contrast to the EU, Norway does not allocate free CO2 allowances to new enterprises and increased production of existing plants. New industrial start-up in Norway is thus less attractive, and a risk of distorting economic activity to countries where industrial builders will receive free CO2 quotas. In addition, current established and often less environmentally friendly actors are favoured as they are allocated free of charge CO2 allowances. It's in itself a paradox. In this Chamber, the Progress Party has raised the issue several times, but the government parties have not shown a willingness to ensure a level playing field. On the contrary, it seems that the government parties at the next crossroads will reduce the competitiveness of the entire industry. During the major debate of 18 December 2007 on the inclusion of the climate allowance law in the EEA Agreement, SVs Inga Marte Thorkildsen stated: ‘We have taken an important step beyond the EU when we have decided not to have free allowances after 2012.’ Her statement paints a rather dramatic picture of the future for Norwegian industry. And it's scary that State Council Solheim has confirmed this far on the way in today's debate. Such a peculiarly restrictive policy will give Norwegian industry a significant competitive disadvantage in relation to the EU and is very unfortunate for future Norwegian value creation and growth. The red-greens, in effect, provide for a deflagration policy for Norwegian industry. There is no doubt that the industry is about to be sacrificed at the climate age. With the impositions, the design of the allowance system and the taxes imposed by the Government, together with the signals given by the same batches for the future, it is certain that any industrial effort in Norway will be a high-risk project. I would like to refer to the concrete action of the Progress Party, which is to be seen globally on the issue. Then we can both meet the challenges and secure and create new Norwegian industrial workplaces. It needs to be better to facilitate continued industrial production in Norway, so that we have the opportunity to influence production methods in an environmentally friendly direction. For climate comrades, does it not think it will help with the world's most stringent environmental requirements in Norway if all Norwegian industrial production in the future will take place in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1865	Everyone talks about the weather, but no one does anything about it, it's called in an old saying. Unfortunately, everything indicates that this saying is about to go out on date, and that we're all actually involved in doing something about the weather through our lifestyle. There are still fewer questions about climate change on the rise. Measurements show a marked increase in global average temperature over the last hundred years, and the closer we get to our time, the warmer it gets. Measurements of CO2 concentration in the atmosphere show an even greater impact, and these results come at the same time as the industrialisation and use of fossil energy. All indications indicate that there is a clear link between emissions and climate, and that climate change is man-made. The consequences of the changes are becoming increasingly clear. Hurricanes, taifunas, droughts, fleas, and other types of extreme weather are becoming increasingly frequent, often with very great damage. The damage is greatest in marginal areas, and the poor become the hardest. Already today, we have climate refugees, and we have several conflicts that are caused by worsening living conditions due to climate change. All indications suggest that such conflicts will become more frequent in the future. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that the consequences are very serious and can be disastrous. At the same time, the panel concludes that development is still being reversed. But this hastens. In my view, climate change is the biggest challenge of our time. This is a matter that no one can solve alone. But there is also one thing that will affect us all if no one does. This means that if we are to reverse developments, we must cooperate both nationally and internationally. It is the rich countries that have the greatest responsibility for emissions so far, but at the same time it is the largest in developing countries. 10 pst. growth over 20 years has made China today the country with the highest total emissions. A new coal power plant every four days and a thousand new cars in Beijing per year. week is some example of what this growth has led to. Other countries have high growth in the economy and their emissions. I myself was in Hanoi in 1995. Then all the inhabitants bike, and my impression was that they ride at the same time. I was back there in 2006. Then all the bikes were replaced in mopeds, and I think I'll be in Hanoi in ten years, driving all the cars. On the one hand, economic developments are positive. Only in China are several hundred million people lifted out of total poverty and given a more dignified life. On the other hand, these developments lead to an increase in emissions and a worsening of the climate, which in turn will affect the poorest. According to the International Energy Agency, the use of energy will increase by over 30 pst. over the next 20 years, and most of this energy will come from fossil energy sources. This will increase the emission dramatically, while emission will have to be dramatically down if we're to be afraid of the climate on the globe. In my view, it is not an alternative for us who live in one of the richest countries in the world, to try to prevent other people and countries from participating in the development and prosperity that we have had. That's why we have a huge challenge. On the one hand, we want a positive development for the poor in the world, but at the same time we want to reduce emissions. Then, as so many others have done today, I will point to the technology and the potential that this gives. The richest countries have the greatest responsibility for emissions, and therefore, in my view, they also have the greatest responsibility for reducing them. The fact that the rich countries show will, I also believe that it is crucial for developing countries to enter into a new international agreement. We have high emissions per. built-in, but in a large context, Norwegian emission is marginal. I therefore believe that we must look beyond our borders when discussing the climate. If Norway wants to make a difference in international climate work, I believe that our struggle to save and capture CO2 is one of the most important tools. The aim of the project in Mongstad is not primarily to capture the CO2 that will come out there, but to get to a new technology that can be used internationally, thus helping to bring down the international emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1897	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1900	There are no shortages of high-flying speeches and whispers about how great this will be, nor have the objectives set been challenged in this debate. On the other hand, the Progress Party has tried several times to have a debate on the measures and the benefits of the individual actions. Let me draw attention to the climate quota law. The Norwegian climate quota law, adopted by the Stortinget - with the votes of the Progress Party, but with significant amendments by the Progress Party - does not grant free quotas to new industries in Norway. This means that all industries established after 2002 have rules of competition that are worse than those in the EU. That means you get extra costs. At the same time, the Government sells those allowances that it does not allocate free of charge - it sells them on the EU market. So the CO2 accounting for this comes to zero, but costs are imposed on Norwegian industry where they are not imposed on European industry. Does the representative Aksensen think that this is a good environmental and industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1908	The party of progress's attitude in this matter is very confusing. On the one hand, they have said throughout the day that there are no measures that the Progress Party itself cannot stand behind in this agreement, and on the other hand they simultaneously attack the reconciliation and decisions made in connection with the agreement. I would like to point out that in 1990 the Stortinget decided to introduce measures to reduce Norwegian CO2 emissions, and the introduction of the CO2 tax has led to Norway having today much lower emissions than we would otherwise have. Norway was then the first country in the world to introduce such a system, and in my view it has not hindered the development of Norwegian industry. On the contrary, this has led to a healthy development of the industry, while at the same time reducing our emissions. I feel very sure that the measures outlined in the climate communication here will help us to continue to have industrial development in Norway, while at the same time meeting the objectives that are important for the majority of people in this room, to bring down our total CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1922	After all, it is proven that the climate allowance law as it is now set down will not reduce emissions, for those allowances that are not allocated free of charge to industry will not be maculated, they will only be sold to others, so that the country will receive an income, while Norwegian companies will receive an expense that their competitors in the EU do not have. One example is NorFra Kalk, a Nordic owned company that established itself in Norway and started to build a factory before the climate quota law became a fact, but that after the climate quota law became a fact, will have an additional cost of about 50 million. NOK which they would not have received if they had established themselves elsewhere. And the owners have clearly said that if these are the framework conditions that they have to deal with, the others are investing outside the Norwegian quota. So it has no CO2 effect, as Axis says. Or can the Axis show that I am wrong about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1930	The whole purpose of introducing a CO2 regime is to bring down CO2 emissions, and when it costs to have CO2 emissions, industry and those with CO2 emissions today will, of course, make an effort to reduce them. So at the same time, the total number of CO2 allowances available will decrease, and so it's obviously the result of this is that CO2 emissions will have to go down, just because there won't be enough CO2 allowances available. That's why this is a scheme to stimulate new technology, and the goal is, of course, to be able to produce things that are important to us in the future, in a much more environmentally friendly way than is the case today, and that's the policy in this area. So, of course, I thought that the whole climate problem is an international problem, and that is why as many countries as possible should be involved in the regime that is being adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1961	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1965	Many of the speakers today have been on the scientific basis that points to the serious environmental and climate challenges we are facing, so I am not going to go into it. But I agree with the representative of Aasland, who very usefully pointed out that the climate agreement we are now discussing in Stortinget is a very important recognition, a recognition in fact, in Norwegian policy of what we are facing that we have not seen before. At the same time, I believe that we should all be so humble that we have to recognise that this must be the start of what is to come, because what we have to do is create a greener and more sustainable economy in the future. Because it is very important, as is done in the climate agreement and in Norwegian climate policy, to go into the sector by sector to look at what kind of instruments we can use to reduce emissions by. sector. But I think we also have to dry out talking about what are the basic drivers behind the rather extensive increase in emissions we have had in the rich part of the world in particular, and how the third world and the developing world are now coming gradually. And in my opinion, the functioning of the economy, through increased consumption, is expressed in the rich part as a massive private prosperity development in terms of increased private consumption, many will call a good part of it even luxury consumption, and in the third world it is about increasing living standards from a very low level. I have to stress that I am very dependent on economic growth, very dependent on increased wealth, in which we have taken part as a fantastic opportunity in our part of the world, but it creates some challenges when that growth to those degrees is so carbon-intensive, so extensively destructive - which unfortunately we now see the result. An example of this is that from 1990 to 2006, private purchasing power, private wealth consumption, increased by 57 pst in Norway. The clothing consumption increased by 80 pst in the same period. Here in Norway. We drive two and a half times more by plane than we did in 1990, if you measure towards the 2006s. What we then see clearly is the relationship between this private consumption growth, especially in the rich part of the world, and the emissions that are. Then I think we have to go to the core and look at how to do something about the functioning of the economy in order to create a greener and less carbon-intensive economy. Another example of this is what I read recently, that SINTEF and NTNU have compiled an overview of what Norwegian consumers emit from CO2 in China through their demand for consumables that we import very cheaply into Norway. It shows that every Northman emits about 3.9 million tonnes of CO2 in China by demanding the products that we import very cheaply into Norway. As a result, many goods in Norway are cheaper today than they were in the 1980s. For example, clothing is much cheaper than it was in the early 1980s, at a sale price. But it goes without saying that as we approach an emission consumption per. Nordics in China who are gradually almost as high as the ordinary Chinese are releasing through their entire way of being in China, are not sustainable over time. That's why, as I say, we need to create a greener, less carbon-intensive economy in the future. We can do that in many ways. A good example is a greener tax exchange, a work that this government is doing, which has been taken further into account in the climate agreement through increased taxes on consumption, through diesel taxes, through fuel oil taxes, usually combined with lower income taxes, which I think must be a good solution. Another exciting work undertaken by the government apparatus, which also takes place in research institutions here in Norway, is the work on climate labelling of consumer goods. If we make a statement about this, it'll make very clear what kind of product it is. There is a difference between goods you buy at the shops, whether they are carbon-intensive or not. In the long term, it has to be seen through the selling price, in my opinion, that one can choose, and that goods that are climate friendly are becoming cheaper, and opposite to the goods that are not. Another way to do that is to standardize. We're already working on that in Norway. It must be possible to bring about a better system for it, including in the climate field. At all, I think it's possible to believe in economic growth, believe in wealth development, in both the poor part of the world and in Norway, but we have to do it in a greener, smarter and more climate friendly way. It's possible, but then we have to be dry to discuss also the drivers behind economic development, which has led to the emissions we now see in Norway, in the rich part of the world and eventually in the poor part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1988	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e1991	The debate we have here in the United Kingdom today, and the policy of majority voting will have a major impact on Norway's contribution to reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. Our international contribution is becoming important, but the climate agreement states that about two thirds of Norway’s emissions are to be taken nationally. This means that we need to use strong instruments to achieve that goal. It also implies that action needs to be taken locally. I'm from Trondheim. There, the Workers Party has launched an environmental package with a number of measures to reduce local emissions. The ambition is to reduce passenger car traffic by 20 pst. by 2018. In order to achieve this, it has been said that an environmental tax should be imposed on petrol and diesel, where revenue should be earmarked for operation and investment and improvement of public transport. In addition, toll revenue from road projects already adopted will be used for collective purposes. Investing in public transport unilaterally is not enough. Other measures are also needed to limit private cars. Using the parking policy, I believe it is right, not only through restrictions in the centre, but also towards the shopping centre on the outskirts of the city, where parking is free today. Furthermore, it is also natural to make arrangements so that several people choose to drive electric, hybrid and hydrogen cars. I have mentioned some of the measures planned to be used in Trondheim. I'm not going to hide that there has been a rather fierce debate on this environmental package, but what surprises me is that the Right Party, which was so keen on the climate agreement here on the Stortinget, is not exactly a supporter in this matter. I think that's sad. If the climate agreement is to be something more valuable than the paper it's written on, then the parties that made a commitment there must also be with local. We don't get reduced by one tonne of CO2 if it just becomes words. It requires action. I'm going to admit that it's demanding to take measures that affect people's everyday lives, but I think at the end of the day that a change in public transport and a sharp reduction in private carism will lead to something good for all the city's inhabitants, and that will be good for the global climate. But then we must also have parties that stand straight and are in favour of that policy, which not only black paints and withdraws from the commitments that have been made here on the Stortinget. National and local policies must be linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2007	Let me start by pointing out that the global average temperature fell from January 2007 to January this year more than at any measurement in the last 100 years. It is the dangerous, one-sided content of a climate-driven environmental policy that the Progress Party warns against, and that the Progress Party is the only party that is currently warning against. So we don't have to be so fast that we can be told in a few years' time that never so many people have been tricked so quickly by so few. Let me also remind you that in December 2007, 100 leading international researchers wrote a letter to the UN Secretary-General warning of the conclusions of the UN Climate Panel. So we in the Progress Party in small Norway are not alone, but it is actually prominent researchers in the international scientific community who warn against both the conclusion and the direction that the UN has subsequently chosen to follow, and which is the cornerstone of the climate agreement itself here in the Storting. So we must not become suspicious of the skeptics and the doubts. I refer to solar scientist Pál Breek in a magazine that just came from the Norwegian Research Council - no. 1st 08th. He says, ‘It may be that the sun plays a more central role in the heating than we have thought to date.’ He also says, ‘When it becomes immoral to doubt, this begins to resemble religion.’ A little bit more about the transport part of the climate notification and the setting there. I refer to pages 22 to 24 of the vote, which provide broad comments and comments from the Progress Party to what is much of a common target for many climate-friendly environmental policy-makers, namely the transport sector. For the Progress Party, an efficient and secure transport network is also an energy-efficient and environmentally friendly transport network. That's why we want to build, not stop. That's why we want to expand and organize, not limit. We don't want any more treasures. We don't want any more charges. We don't want any more public intervention. We will build modern, efficient, safe and environmentally friendly roads. We want, as I said in a previous post, to streamline today's rail network. We want to move long transport from road to track and keel. We want to stimulate more effective collective provision in population-based districts. We will build modal hub terminals in transport infrastructure where several modes of transport are linked. An efficient, secure transport network is an environmentally friendly transport network.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2026	I just want to, first of all, start by thanking the representative Sortevik for confirming the Prime Minister's claim that the Progress Party rides two horses in this matter. Sortevik says here that the Progress Party is not the only one who warns against the conclusions, while in the vote they write that they take the conclusions seriously. There has to be a greater degree of say that there are two positions at once. But then: the climate communication already contains a number of measures for the transport sector at the time of its presentation, and the climate agreement further reinforces this – two thirds of road traffic emissions will be cut. This is why the communication and conciliation also point to the major urban areas. It is where it is possible to reduce climate emissions through reduced traffic. The combination of good collective services and restrictions on private car traffic has been shown to be effective in urban areas. We could mention examples like London, where you have a maximum price of 270 kroner for the most environmentally hostile cars to drive in, while it's free for those who don't have any emissions. Package solutions are therefore a solid tool, and it turns out that combining good and bad actions works much better than positive and negative actions separately. I would therefore like to mention in particular the point of the climate agreement on the reward scheme for public transport. The reward scheme shall be doubled, at least if binding agreements on reduced car traffic are reached with the cities concerned. In particular, the new funds under the reward scheme shall be allocated to urban areas willing to limit car traffic by means of road pricing, differentiated toll rates or other traffic regulation measures. I am pleased that this point in the Government's Climate Communication has broad support in Stortinget, from SV to the party Right. As a result, we have also become more people who can actively engage in understanding that carrots and whips must be used in an offensive climate policy for urban traffic. We must not forget that the implementation of the many measures in the climate communication will require the courage and action of us politicians. That's why it's also a pleasure that we've got a broad deal here now. It is important to develop a transport system that uses less energy, uses renewable energy sources and can replace significant parts of the highly polluting forms of transport that are based on fossil fuels. Energy companies' national association has presented a report, Green Box, which shows us how we can use renewable energy in the transport sector. Investing in renewable energy, on which we are rich in Norway, and investing in climate-neutral energy carriers is the most important thing we can do if we are to get emissions in this sector down to zero. It is therefore very gratifying that the agreement in Stortinget confirms the Government's commitment to Transnova, which contributes to the testing and development of tomorrow's modes of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2037	SV, as has been said many times, is pleased with the agreement that has emerged, and not least because it is so wide, even the representative Kristians from the Right is involved in this agreement. It seems like we're giving a lot of strength to the equation. There are two things that dominate this debate. One is what we should do, and the other is future government options. I think this debate proves that it is important to keep the representatives Kristiansen, Sponheim and Højbrätten out of government, because that is when they get results in climate negotiations, not when they are in position themselves. Then they simply build on gas power plants, on Snow White, and other things that consume heavily. But when they're out of government and they're in, the results come. So the important summary of the debate is: keep these parties out of government offices, so that we get an offensive climate policy in Norway. And then that's the second element, and that's the concrete thing. There are very many good proposals that the climate agreement has and that need to be followed up nationally, but not least locally. As others have said, Trondheim is called, other cities could be called: what do individual local politicians do? I must say that I am concerned about my own state, as now, a few days before this debate, was out and demanded 40 billion kroner, and some of these are for roads in central urban areas and for tunnels. Then it hasn't really happened that one has to do local things to bring down greenhouse gas emissions. Then there's no increased traffic response, then there's increased public traffic response. That's exactly why it's good for the climate agreement to say that if you don't do anything really local, you don't get any money from the wetting system. For one, reduce car traffic at the same time as one gets money to strengthen the bus supply. The climate agreement is very good. My strong signal to the political parties is: make sure, in metropolitan areas, to make clear demands that make car traffic, CO2 emissions, noise and local pollution go down - then the state comes with more money for climate action. Finally, I would like to mention on the energy side that SV once again drew up the green certificates, and that it is part of the climate agreement. We're very happy about that. The last time this case was brought up, it was SV who got multiples using Right - Ivar Kristiansen's party - to start working with green certificates. Bondevik could never put them on the table. They were also given by us. But something's going on again, and that means an offensive investment in wind power.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2054	In climate policy, as in other policy areas, it is important to have an overall perspective both on the challenges we face and on the actions we take. For climate and climate challenges, there is nothing local that we can solve in Norway only through national measures, as we can sometimes get the impression in the debate on this topic. Climate challenges and their causes are global. Therefore, action is also needed both at national and international level and at international level in order to implement measures as monks. This balance has been maintained by the government of Stoltenberg in an excellent way both in the climate communication presented by the Government and in the climate agreement reached. The need for a balance between national and international action is evident in all sectors. I will take one example: Transport stands for almost 30 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway and is the sector with the largest increase in emissions. Following the climate agreement, the ambition of the Storting is that about two thirds of the reductions in climate emissions should be taken domestically. Priority actions include: the development of public transport with additional focus on the reward scheme, the strengthening of the network and the assessment of high-speed rail in NTP, the development of pedestrian and cycle routes and the establishment of Transnova as an instrument for increasing the use of alternative fuels. We have to change vehicle charges to influence road traffic and promote low-emission and zero-emission options - to mention something. All these measures are good. There are measures that can both reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector in Norway and that can improve the transport system in Norway if transport modes are seen in the context, and climate action is not seen as being detached from transport policy. In addition, I would like to point out perhaps the most effective instrument in developing a forward-looking and climate-friendly transport system for Norway, namely land and transport planning and national transport planning. This is where we have to lay the foundation for land use and for a comprehensive transport system such as this. facilitates less need for car use in the local environment and more use of bicycles, corridors and public transport, more use of trains nationally instead of cars and aircraft, etc. All these measures I have commented on in relation to the transport sector are nationally targeted. I would therefore like to underline what I started to talk about, namely the importance of international cooperation in the further work on climate change, including in the sector, for example. in the transport sector, measures and instruments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to improve the knowledge base by increasing the focus on research and development, as the climate agreement also states.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2069	Over the last year, one of the coldest winters of 100 years has been proven. Norway has essentially escaped cheaply. But Baghdad has experienced his first snow and beats all the records. It's been cold all over the Mediterranean. America has had snowfalls that you haven't experienced in 50 years, as in Wisconsin. There have been record calls in Florida, Mexico, Australia, Iran, Greece, South Africa and Greenland, not to mention China, which has had the coldest winter in 100 years. I further point out that over 19 000 American researchers are skeptical about the United Nations Climate Panel, which focuses on CO2 and little else. Specialist in general medicine, Gunnar Saunas, says in today's Medicine that it's depressing to see how many heads are wasting time and money on the imagined CO2 hazard. He goes on to say that today's Medicine to be serious should take a distance from-- and not act like a microphone stand for-- speculative climate theory. CO2 is an absolutely necessary gas for all life. We can't live without it. So now, climate scientists are going to make us think that a gas can neither humans nor plants survive, is the greatest threat to our existence. It is only an increase in the temperature of water or air that may result in higher levels of CO2 in the atmosphere. A CO2 increase is not the reason why the temperature on the ground has risen by approx. 0.6 degrees in the last hundred years, but a consequence of this. This is governed by Henry's law. On the other hand, there are some other gases that are dangerous, both related to water vapour and not least related to methane. Then it's very sad -- when we know that there's changes in the climate, when we need an understanding of what's happening, and research is very important -- that we have a bunch of politicians who see their average to take away most of the freedom in everyday life through new taxes, taxes and regulations and justify this with CO2 and CO2 alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2099	100 years ago Norway was among the poorest countries in Europe. Now we're among the richest. 20 years ago, Gro Harlem Brundtland made the concept of sustainability universal. By creating and sharing, we have built a welfare society that is socially, economically, culturally as good as sustainable, but unfortunately this does not apply to the environment. Gro pointed out the link between poverty and the environment. In the past, we thought that developing countries had to use scarce resources to combat poverty rather than the environment. Now we know it's the opposite. Protecting the environment is a condition for the fight against poverty, as set out in the UN's Millennium Goals. The poorest of the poor suffer most from climate change, for the time being. Natural disasters hit them hard. They live by nature and have few alternatives. We rich people have the primary responsibility for climate change. Climatic emission figures per year head's ready. It also places the responsibility for turning around in time. A carbon-neutral Norway in 2030 is one contribution. But these are ominous signs. Three-quarters of the emissions growth by 2030 will come from the developing world, so fast and so heavy that our cuts are too small. That is why we must also contribute. 30 kr to rainforest yields one tonne of savings. Corresponding cuts in the North Sea cost NOK 1 600, and the EU quota costs DKK 135, so measures are most effective. But, unfortunately, it's not that simple. The matter also has a political side. We have created a welfare that is not sustainable. We must show that well-being can also be sustainable, and not ease that responsibility on others. It doesn't hold, neither morally nor in practice. The climate agreement requires up to two thirds of our cut nationally. We have to prove that well-being and sustainability can be two sides of the same thing. Think globally, act locally, said Gro. The agreement points to the municipalities. The Drammen Arbeiderparti has invited to local climate settlement. It's going to be exciting to see if there's a match between local and central batches here. We're talking about measures that will be noticed. The CIENS research centre has produced a report on local climate impacts in and for counties and municipalities in the Oslo region. Climate change not only affects everyone else, but us - here and now. Something's released that's already happened, so it's urgent. In our century, in the Drama, the temperature rises by 3 degrees on average. The harvest bill increases by 30 pst. We'll have more floods. In parts of the center, the ground is made up of mercury, which can rage into the river. Moisture damage occurs in houses, flooded cellars and health problems. Raising, icing, floods and large snowfalls lead to road and track congestion and to more frequent power cuts. We could keep raming up. Increased air pollution particularly affects our children. State and municipality are lacking in preparedness, but the highlights are that the report shows a way to better preparedness and response to emissions. But we have to act quickly. The sad thing is that the Progress Party has chosen to go out solo and play on short-term populism. It's sad, immoral and dangerous. When climate change is irreversible, it is too late, also for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2110	One of us today has doubts about how to solve CO2 is a problem. If it turns out in 10-20 years that CO2 is not a problem, we haven't done anything wrong, because what we've done then is to house properly with a non-renewable resource. And of course we can have in the back of the head that we have reached a so-called 'peak oil situation'. What has been found by known oil and gas resources has now begun to go downhill. So there's no reason not to leave these resources there for future use for our grandchildren. Then we can also right what others in the world have to say about this problem, not least in oil-importing countries. The Pentagon clearly states that one of the five greatest threats is, of course, the climate. I will quote from a press release from the Swedish Defence Agency, which says outright: «Environmental impacts and climate change are the most serious global threats to human safety. The transition to more sustainable development cannot wait. The use of fossil fuels must be drastically reduced through energy saving, increased energy efficiency and renewable energies." That's what the Swedish Defense sees as the threat, not other possible invasions. We should listen to this, because more and more follow. We're going to notice that she who can become the next president of the United States says clearly that one has to stop America's dependence on oil. In other words, she says that she might think of ending up with expensive wars for cheap oil. We're going to take this on as a decent energy supplier. Because we should be aware that in some cases we can be pressured to produce more oil and gas in the north, which are vulnerable areas before we start up there, than we really want. Then I'll finally mention local relationships, because this is also related to local actions. We've got Norway's largest tractor in Molde. We're quite proud of that. What does that mean? Well, he means that a farmer and several others have started up with tile firing plants. This government has put in place a policy that creates jobs, we clear the roads, gets rid of the green tunnels, so that tourists can see the mountains and the sea, and we get to the environment in practice. In addition to what this farmer has done, the municipality, via Enova's support, has created a district heating system, so this farmer will deliver to the local district heating system, which is the future. We create jobs and the environment, and that is action in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2130	This debate has had some review terms: man-made climate emissions and greenhouse gas emissions. This becomes too unexplained as a basis for action. When the environmental debate in the 1970s saw a strong upturn and provided the basis for a green wave, it was basic knowledge to distinguish renewable energy, for example. hydro, wind, sun, and biological and storage energy, oil, gas and coal. The challenge and slogan were: more renewable energy, more circular energy, less exhaust gas. It is a fact that one litre of petrol in case of combustion in an engine gives about three kilograms of CO2 because the carbon contained in the petrol is bonded with oxygen in case of combustion. This is the problem of CO2 emissions that need to be reduced. The photosynthesis in the plants binds CO2 into the air and creates biological energy, based on sunlight, water and nutrient-rich soil. Agriculture is the use of land or solar gain, as Professor Woodroffe of the University of Missouri said early in the 1970s. The operations produce products: fibre or food. The modes of operation are different: the more industrialised agriculture, the greater consumption of storage energy, in addition to solar energy. A climate-friendly Norwegian agriculture increases the use of land and reduces the use of diesel and oil-based fertilizers. The setting in this case states that the ‘total emissions of CO2 from agriculture’ amounts to about 8 pst. ‘of Norway’s total CO2 emissions’. In the setting, the greenhouse gas is called methane, CH4, ‘single agricultural activity’. Central government documents call this ‘methane process emissions’. Thus, the concepts are ‘agricultural activity’ and ‘process emissions’. What is the practical word for this? Yes, it is «household farming». Through photosynthesis, which is basic knowledge for any farmer, CO2 is bound from the atmosphere. If the Norwegian people had managed to eat vegetarian food, we wouldn't have CO2 emissions from domestic animals, but since most people eat and feel the urge for meat to get a full diet, domestic animals are needed. There's a need for some basic knowledge. Only multigaseous animals, such as cow, can live off and grow on grass. It can't pig, nor can man, both of whom are monogamous. So in order for grass to become human food, multimagnad animals are needed. It's an old confession. When a multi-layered animal, such as sheep, eat 100 carbon units from grass, convert carbon into seven units of methane and 93 units of carbon dioxide. Methane comes from the animal's faeces - called manure - while CO2 also comes from the animal's breath as well as from the products. The point is: Livestock farming based on grass is carbon-neutral. Either the grass rots or is eaten by a cow, it produces the same CO2 effect in the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2180	The transport sector accounts for about 30 pst. of the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. The forecasts say that the emissions will increase by another 30 pst. by 2020. The challenge we are facing is that the sector will have to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 2,5-4 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in the period up to 2020. I believe that without a sharp increase in railway investment, we will hardly be able to reduce emissions as much as is required here. At the same time, we must reduce emissions from car traffic. Without it, we will have difficulty achieving our climate policy objectives, either in the short term or in the longer term. I am therefore pleased that the majority in this Chamber - all except the Progress Party, of course - will now strengthen the railway effort and that rail investment will increase more than the growth of road investment. This can be a rather demanding task, because road traffic today is favoured by a financing system that makes it easier to build roads than to build up railways. Railway investments are linked to the State budget and are therefore more vulnerable to cost increases and irregularities than other infrastructure deployments. This is a development that we have to turn around, if we're going to be able to speed up railway development. Today, we see that developments are actually going in the opposite direction to what we want: road traffic is increasing more than public transport. Of course, this is because we are driving more cars than we have ever done. Therefore, it is imperative that we reach full levels on the railway network, and that we ensure that we build it out in those areas of the country where the impact of such expansion is greatest, namely in the Oslo area and on both sides of the Oslo soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2194	It falls to the case rapporteur from SV, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, heavy to the chest that the party of progress once again is the party that stands at the forefront when it has to be said from, when everyone else in its political correctness is blind and no one escapes the mutual hailstone of each other's views. The Progress Party has proposed more than 30 cost-effective, effective and concrete actions that Norway can take to comply with the Kyoto Agreement to which Norway has committed itself. For the Progress Party, it is important that the objectives we have committed ourselves to be achieved through effective means, that they do not become a tool that the socialists desire to resort to in order to take even greater control of our lives and to be able to thin out even more tax and tax credits from the individual population. Thorkildsen desperately tried in his post to keep life in the myths. She referred unrelentingly to the 2 500 experts and researchers of the Climate Panel, who are in fact about 50 researchers and government appointed bureaucrats and inspectors. Thorkildsen's attitude towards researchers who disagree with the United Nations Climate Panel is frightening. Like Gro Harlem Brundtland’s opinion that ‘it is immoral to doubt’, such attitudes pose a direct threat to research and development — yes, to science itself. Many serious research environments around the world are increasingly detecting eccentricities and political claims in the arguments derived from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports. When several of those who stand up are retired, it only underlines how dangerous it is for both career and research resources to challenge the politically correct consensus. Thorkildsen referred to the leader of CICERO, who criticizes the competence of researchers and refers to them as ‘spinnville and mad’ - and then admits that he does not know the researcher he is talking about, nor his work. This is going to be too easy. Minister for the Environment and Development, Solheim, is quoted today in the Newspaper that the Progress Party and Greenpeace have points in their criticism of biofuels, and that this debate needs to be more nuanced. Whether this is an expression of the fact that the future climate debate is based more on knowledge and science than on almost religious conviction, and where heresy is punished by the fire, we are very pleased with it. Later today, we are going to vote for more than 30 concrete proposals for effective, effective Kyoto measures. By supporting the proposals of the Progress Party, the representative Thorkildsen will be able to take action which means a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2211	I record that a few attempts have been made by individual representatives in the Progress Party to convince them that the Progress Party actually has a climate policy. I think you have to take a long time to convince people about it, even though the Progress Party is trying to blame for the inability of others to understand what they're saying, because you might come from Rogaland or somewhere else. The point is that the Progress Party is acting completely confusing. It is almost impossible to understand what that party really stands for, other than that they aim to win the next election by questioning what they characterize as a climate hysteria, namely the research provided by 2,500 researchers associated with the United Nations Panel on Climate Change. About 700 researchers have been responsible for the research itself. So it's evaluated, criticized and gone through on all the bows and edges of a total of 2,500 experts. Instead, you choose to rest on a number of so-called experts that the daily newspaper has partially revealed must be in the pocket of the American oil industry. Other experts are revealed as non-natural whites, some have no doctorate, etc. The point is that you spend all your time wondering if it's necessary at all to do this. You can, for example: choose to listen to the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen from Finnmark who says: CO2 is not dangerous, CO2 is we all dependent on living, so why is CO2 a threat to the future of the Earth? Then I would just recommend checking out the photosynthesis - the same recommendation that we gave to Carl I. Hagen a few years ago, when he did not understand that this could be a problem. The problem is when the anthropogenic CO2 emissions come to the top of that Earth is able to absorb from its sea level. There are some consequences that make the Earth in the next round have even bigger problems in being able to absorb this CO2. Then you gradually heat up the globe, and then we have a problem! «Long-term forecasts I will not bother my head with, no matter what it is about, including climate» said Carl I. Hagen of the VG on 28 January 2005. This was due to volcanic eruptions, which have a cooling effect on the climate, and solar radiation as a cause of warming. You can search with light and light to find some excuse for not doing anything. The point is that the party is jeopardizing the very basis of life for the next generation. They do it with the knowledge and the will to get votes for themselves seams, and that's what I call primordial cynicism!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2239	In Ketil Solvik-Olsen's response to my reply earlier today, one could almost get the impression that he took a distance from Per Sandberg's statements recently. In March 2007, Ketil Solvik-Olsen sent a question to the Minister for the Environment Helen Bjørnøy in writing. On the question raised, the representative expressed the concern that high school students were invited to show Al Gore’s film ‘An Uncomfortable Truth’. Nest leader of the Progenskrittspartiet, Per Sandberg, speaks of Al Gore as a great bluffmaker and Christian fundamentalist, for all too much. He asks in a web meeting in Addressavisa about how many will be hung in the lampposts if the horror scenarios don't turn on. Yeah, I guess. When Per Sandberg speaks of Al Gore as a bluffmaker, he is constantly pointing out that a number of researchers have filed against Al Gore, and that the British Supreme Court has virtually banned showing the film. To clear it up immediately, the researchers that Per Sandberg refers to are a truck driver from Kent, and the judgment that was passed fell in the High Court in London, i.e. in a city court rather than in the British Supreme Court. So there's obviously more than climate change The Progress Party should gain more knowledge about. That's not really the main point here. The point is what this judgment actually says. It's true that some of the statements in Al Gore's film are not well documented in the film, but what's really interesting in that judgment is the points that the judges find correct. This applies, inter alia, to: the point that today’s climate change is mainly caused by anthropogenic emissions and that it is fully feasible for governance and for individuals to reduce the effects of climate change. I don't know if I'm gonna laugh or cry. So here, Al Gore is called a conjurer, there are doubts about the conclusions of the United Nations Climate Panel and calls for soberness and truthfulness in the debate, and then you do not tell the whole truth about your own sources. Is it these judges who say that climate change is man-made, that Per Sandberg will be dribbling in the lampposts? I think it is really liberating that the Progress Party reveals what the climate problems are about for them. They shall win votes in the same way as with the resistance to immigration. I also think it was good to hear the representative of Sortevik in this debate clarify that the Progress Party does not base the precautionary principle on its climate policy. So I just want to say at the end: after all these hours of debate, we still haven't got the answer to the simple question: Does the Progress Party believe in man-made climate change, or do they not believe it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2254	I'm very proud that Norway is a leading star internationally. We took the lead at the conference in Bali, and our initiative on the deforestation of the rainforest, with appropriations of NOK 3 billion, has put the matter on the international agenda. I am also proud that the way forward is paved out clearly. In the climate agreement, the ambitious objectives are followed by sectoral climate action plans with concrete actions. I'm glad we got the deal, and the government thinks it's important that it's not just about the government parties, but that there's a broad settlement in the Stortinget. We must ensure that the policy is firm and that it is followed up, regardless of the results of the elections in the future. There seems to be full confusion in the Progress Party, and that confusion they are seeking to pass on. The party's climate policy spokesman, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, and the party president, Siv Jensen, refer to document No. the 8th proposal under debate today, and seeks to indicate how the party will meet the Kyoto commitments. At the same time, the party's Vice President, Per Sandberg, tries to question whether there is at all a problem to solve. The party president, Siv Jensen, and the energy policy spokesman, Solvik-Olsen, seem almost parked on the sideline of the Vice President, Sandberg. During the debate on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state just three weeks ago, the Progress Party twice refused to answer direct questions about whether they believed that climate change was man-made. They announced that the answer would come during this debate; it did not belong to the debate on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. But it's just as undecided after the debate today. So because of its own confusion, the Progress Party is trying to shift the focus from what we're going to do, and what kind of action we're going to take, to whether it's a problem at all. They will win votes on climate hysteria, and they compare it with how they have managed to emerge from immigration policy. I share with the representative Thorkildsen's view that this is cynical. It is not without reason that the government parties are concerned about whether this climate agreement will be followed up if we get a civil majority. Will budgetary appropriations also be followed up in concrete terms, or will it be the subject of negotiations with the Progress Party? What happens if the Progress Party has an influence on climate policy, given a civil majority after the 2009 elections? It is also unclear after today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2271	I think that today's debate shows that an increasing majority of the country's population is taking on board, namely that climate challenges are the biggest and most important challenge of our time. But what I think people have not quite taken on board is that if Norway and the EU are going to achieve what is our common goal in the world's measuring stick, namely to prevent the globe's overall temperature rise to be more than 2 degrees, this is just the first step on a longer path. The latest report of the United Nations, which was presented after we presented our climate report, says that we need to start reducing climate change emissions, and that we must have started by 2015 - and 2015 is tomorrow. It is therefore a short time for 2015. This is going to be really hard to reach, and the only way we can do it is to get an international agreement in place. If we can't gather all the countries of the world about this common goal, we have no chance at all. That's why it's depressing when Kristin Halvorsen comes home after the Bali meeting and says she's gone round with the other finance ministers, because although the world's environmental protection ministers have probably understood this, the world's finance ministers haven't. However, a good contribution is that more and more people recognise what was presented in the Stern report, namely that it is much cheaper to take action now than to wait for it, to push for action to the future. It's going to be a lot more expensive. It's going to hit us a lot harder. That's why this is just a first step on the way to a total transformation of the Norwegian economy and of the world economy. I just want to give a few examples of how important it is to think far ahead when we make investments today. When one coal-fired power plant opens in China every week, it is such that 30 pst. of the coal-fired power stations that cannot apply clean-up technology. So they're going to stand and go in 2030, in 2040 and in 2050. When the Norwegians buy a new car next year, the car will not be parked in the garage until about 20 years, on average, for the Norwegian car park is about 10 years on average. That means we have to take a lot of action -- not just the cheapest grips here and now, as the Progress Party goes in to, do the cheapest things now, preferably abroad, and let's wait with the more expensive ones to later on -- just because the transition is not coming fast enough. If we, for example, looking at Oslopackak 3, which is a very difficult environmental effort, it will still lead to an increase in car traffic of 11, 12 or 13 pst. It's no use believing that we're going to be able to solve the climate problems if we can't take big steps right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2284	Earlier in the debate, I and other red-green politicians were criticized for being heavy-sensitive to what is the Progress Party's approach to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Then I just thought -- at least as a mitigating circumstance, if the heavy-sensitive concept is going to go into history as a label on us -- I'd tell you a little bit about why we thought it was hard to understand what is the real hold of the Progress Party. Those who have had the debate today have, among other things, heard the representative Fredriksen and the representative Sortevik, who said of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that ‘never have so many been tricked so quickly by so few’. Then they have repeated quotations that go across the questions in the climate panel, for example. that CO2 emissions are safe, that this is not the cause of the warming we are witnessing, and that it is sad that we have politicians who use the Climate Panel as a guideline for political decisions, etc. Among other things, the representative Sortevik says that the Progress Party is not the only one to warn of the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Yes, this is completely across what the leader of the party said from the pulpit here, that they take the climate challenges seriously, they take the conclusions of the UN Climate Panel seriously. Then it has to be allowed to ask the question: What is it really the Progress Party that thinks about the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change? We don't have the power to get a clear answer to that. In the Center Party, we have a pretty good principle, that's the precautionary principle. I will briefly repeat what we are putting into it: I think it's about taking the chance of being ridiculed in 50 years if it turns out that we today voted in favour of drastic measures and for drastic strategies in relation to the climate challenges - because the option is worse. The alternative is that in 50 years' time we will be seen as those politicians who had sufficient knowledge, who had the economic resources, and who really had the opportunity to take effective action when a major impact was caused by relatively small resource use. We can be seen as those politicians who had all the possibilities, but who didn't do anything - if we don't do anything today. I am pleased that we have a large majority of people who are willing to take the right action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2296	I am very pleased with the agreement that has been reached. Like No Marte Thorkildsen, I agree that there is a good floor on which we can stand, which we cannot go under, but where we need to improve the measures in the future. Settlement and compromise are good in politics. But I think I need to remind you that the nature of the matter, what we're talking about now, is not about a little bit more or a little bit less of anything, it might not even be about ideology and values. It's about laws of nature. Natural laws are such that they do not compromise. If we do something that triggers some reaction to the laws of nature, we can't sit down with the nature at the negotiating table and say, hey, now you get to give yourself a little, wait for us a little, we're not done yet! It's going wrong. It goes wrong if we don't take the laws of nature seriously. That's what this case is about. That's why there's some requirements we're actually going to have to meet in the future, whether we want to or not. Some people believe that we do not want this, or that someone has found out about this matter in order to have a good political case. If I had come up with a case to have a good political case, I really think I would have made up something else--for this is difficult, it's sometimes expensive, and it's not just popular at all. We're not doing this because anyone can sit and point out a millimeter of how it's going to work if we don't. But if we don't, the climate on earth is going to be destroyed, and if we're going to have any sense of responsibility as politicians, we have to base the precautionary principle on all our policies, as the representative Sande said in his statement, because it's simply not possible to stop climate change if it starts running smoothly. A crossroads that we arrive at quite quickly will be the treatment of the new national transport plan for the years to come. It's one of those crossroads where we have to make some choices, where we have to be able to start investing a lot more strongly in, for example. rail, so that in the future it will be possible to transport both persons and goods in a more environmentally friendly manner than today. It'll also require some of the choices of us that don't just become popular. There are strong forces that want-- and there are good reasons for it-- better roads in many places in the country. But as politicians, we actually have to make sure that investment comes first and foremost in those areas where climate gains are highest. It's a crossroads -- and a policy area I'm looking forward to working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2307	Arne Sortevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2310	In two articles I have touched on the precautionary principle. In my first post I said that you can be «dangerous soon» if you are led was. The example is what today is about biodiesel, and what we've been given in the past, about particulate filters that are actually harmful. In my second post, I said that we should not be so ‘too quick’ that in retrospect we can be told that never so many have been tricked so quickly by so few. This does not mean adding to the principle of being the leader was, but that means using it with a solid portion of accuracy and caution - especially caution when it turns out that there is justified doubt about part of the scientific basis at the bottom of a very climate-hectic and climate-driven environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2317	I think it is interesting that the parties that have concluded the climate agreement have been very concerned that at least two thirds of the cuts should be taken home. But when you look at the deal that has been made, two thirds of the funds that have been set aside are so far spent abroad. I notice that the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen later as if the Progress Party is against everything and will not take hold. But I also record that the representative Thorkildsen will not answer questions and challenges from the Progress Party, for example. on which of the 30 measures Thorkildsen considers that action should be taken and what measures she believes are not good enough in relation to the Kyoto agreement that Norway has committed itself to. I hope that the representative will respond to what she thinks is good, and what measures she believes are less good or wants to oppose. These are good measures that should be widely agreed on the need to implement, and then action is also taken on what the majority is concerned about, and what is contained in the climate communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2325	I record that some members of the SV are making a few attempts to be factual in this debate, but they have so far had poor penetration, to paraphrase Inga Marte Thorkildsen. The Progress Party has thus initially launched a debate on action. In Document No: The 8 proposal we invite to a debate on action. Then we were already challenged to discuss science in the first post of the rapporteur. We've also done that to show that there's actually a debate about science out there. That is why the representative Sortevik said so, and that is why the representative Fredriksen quoted articles from others. He was not the one who denied CO2 and climate impact, but he referred to scientists who write about this, to show that there is actually a debate going on out there. Then we have also been very clear that, despite the fact that it is a debate, the Progress Party is underpinning the precautionary principle. We have made a number of proposals, over 30, on how to cut CO2 emissions and deliver on the Kyoto agreement. We would not have made those proposals if we had thought the whole debate was just nonsense, as some representatives later do as the Progress Party does. As far as the climate agreement is concerned, if the Progress Party comes into government, the agreement will fall. We want to continue the measures we are in favour of, but when the other six parties have not even chosen to have a conversation with us about the settlement, we will not, of course, feel obliged to continue what we are against. When you’re so worried about it, you’ll see how robust the nursery arrangement from the previous period was. It narrowed on the first occasion, and it didn't cost one calorie for any of the parties behind it, to break it. Then we've tried to get some clarifications from these six parties about what the climate agreement actually involves. What does that mean for Kårstø 2012 and Mongstad 2014? What does that mean for petroleum policy? What does that mean for the 2012 climate allowance law and the 2012 allocation of allowances? What does it mean when Stoltenberg says to take action where they do the most benefit, while everyone else in this room is talking about doing two thirds in Norway -- at least? Isn't it a little distance between what the Prime Minister says and what the parties at Stortinget say? What does it mean for small power plants and green certificates? What does that mean when you say you're going to have 250 million? kr to railway, but does not specify whether it is gross or net allocation? Nothing of this has been clearly answered. SV says one thing about petroleum, the working party says something completely different. And then you blame the Progress Party for double-communing. Everyone who has followed this debate sees that there is a six-part communism from the others, because it is not entirely possible to agree on what has actually been achieved. State Council Solheim noted that the Progress Party only points out the shortcomings. It is because we are the only critical voice that has had an alternative policy, and then we want to point out what measures are not working, to get a debate around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2346	It was tempting to take the floor after the representative Hoksrud, who spoke about the great climate measures for the Progress Party. We can mention some of them here: building modern, efficient, safe and environmentally friendly roads. Weighing in itself is hardly environmentally friendly, it is in case of what kind of cars we are going to drive on them. There, the government has gone in for Transnova and other things to develop a more environmentally friendly car park. When the Progress Party writes in its proposals ‘to streamline and optimise today’s rail network’, it is only in the case of the rail network itself that it should be efficient and good. Because we know from previous debates with the Progress Party that they have proposed to cut up to half and a half of what is called the state purchase of public transport from the NSB, which NSB has once again said would mean that the entire local train service has to be shut down in Oslo. There is little help in having an efficient and good railway network at the bottom, when you can't afford to drive any trains on it. This is the whole way of doing the good work of the Progress Party. Lower charges are needed to stimulate a faster replacement of the car park. From 1990 to 2005, emissions from the car fleet increased by 25 pst. At the same time, the cars have become more modern, more efficient and released less. So it's got more emissions in total. More roads, more cars, to which the Progress Party here adds, will also eventually increase emissions, if the Progress Party is not able to think again, it is good to think in a way to reduce car traffic around the big cities, and also to bet on having vehicles that can go on this efficient public transport network, not just investing in it. Finally, I would also like to say to the representative of Sortevik that I find it quite interesting that one of the proposals of the Progress Party is to have tax reliefs that stimulate the use of alternative fuels. Why, then, does the representative Blackevik so strongly warn against biofuels, which can just be said to be an alternative fuel? The progress team has not gone away from biofuels here, that there's something they won't bet on. On the contrary, we want to encourage more use of alternative fuels. Everyone agrees that biofuels are an alternative fuel.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2355	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2358	I think the previous post was a typical example of how to try to distort the policy of the Progress Party to blackmail what we stand for, rather than take what we say, seriously. An article from research.no refers to two research reports recently published that biofuels in today’s technology and form are not a climate solution, because it takes from 17 to 420 years to make biofuels produce climate-neutral to the fossil fuel they replace. That's why the Progress Party wants us to bet on electricity, hydrogen, biofuels, etc., but you have to do it in an environmentally friendly, sound way, where the symbolism of introducing biofuels is not the most important thing, but the effects you get out of it. This is why the Progress Party has said that second-generation research on biofuels is important, where waste from, for example, is used. food production, and not like today, where the government with this agreement actually goes in to use the food of the world poor to get their cars to go. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2365	Bård Hoksrud challenged me as to what is good about the Progress Party's policy, and what is bad. I've spent a lot of time today saying what's bad about the Progress Party trying to avoid most people being mobilised to demand offensive policies from the parties in this room, and giving us the courage to be able to take the steps necessary to save the world. So to the question of the attitude of the Progress Party to what is in the climate communication and in the climate agreement. It is clear that it is a major problem that the Progress Party does not want to quantify how large a national cut we are going to take. It is a major problem that the Progress Party does not want us to have sectoral climate action plans, which go into the sector by sector and figure out how much cut we are going to take, and also say something about what means we are going to use. If the Progress Party finds out that it is a good idea that we should do something in one sector, for example. in the transport sector, it is a very big problem that they will say in the next round that we will spend a lot of money on subsidising, for example. petrol, so that Norwegian consumers - at least in the election campaign - can get to buy petrol at NOK 8 per cent. liters, which we know pollute a lot. So they're going to spend a lot of money building up the roads, even in central lines, and then they won't use any regulatory tools, because the Progress Party knows that's an unpopular tool. And it's the Progress Party per. definition in contrast. Then the Progress Party has some old-fashioned proposals. They are willing to look at electrification of the socket, I see. That's interesting, and I hope the Progress Party will continue to stand on it. They have suggested that we have lower car charges for environmentally friendly alternatives. I fully agree with that, but at the same time we have to make sure that we turn up the charges on those cars that pollute a lot, e.g. on SUVs and other types of petrol-extinguishing cars. The Progress Party has proposals for thorium power stations, which we totally disagree with. This will shift a great deal of research resources that we now need for new renewable energy to energy efficiency and savings, to something that only creates an even greater environmental problem. They have proposals to expand, for example: Tissue. We also disagree with that. We have to take care of some of the things that are truly valuable and endangered by Norwegian nature. One can go into and look at individual elements of the experimental climate and environmental policies of the Progress Party, which are good, but the point is to question the whole basis for doing so. The question is, why does the Progress Party at all want to be pushed through this to try to develop something that will seem credible, when they really don't think we need to do it. But it is of course to try to ride two horses simultaneously--as usual--in order that it shall be impossible to attack them. If anyone dares to attack them, it is a pity on them!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-04.ana.ud2580e2386	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 and 2. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is soon to come, and the President will propose that we cancel the meeting now, and that a new meeting is scheduled to be held at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2338]] - It's a note.
