ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e30	The representatives Anne Margrethe Larsen, Torfinn Opheim, Trine Skei Grande and Tord Lien, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. From 9 June to 11 June to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in New York, an application has been submitted by the Workers' Group for a permit to the representative of Marit Nybakk. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined and approved without delay.The representative of thevariety, Karin Yrvin, shall be convened to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e63	Karin Yrvin is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e69	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council today and for the rest of the current week - and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. - Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Stortinget's meeting this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e85	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e94	Of course, when the Left has promoted this proposal for a new drug treatment unit, it is done with the best intentions. We are all impatient on behalf of all those who are struggling with their drug problems. My particular impression is that the whole health and care committee is really concerned about how we should move forward in order to achieve the best possible results, and have the best possible means of helping all those people who are addicted to drugs. Then it's enough that we can have different suggestions on how we think it's best to solve. However, we share the view that the challenge is the individual’s drug abuse and that we need to focus on the individual drug addict. It is the only dangerous way to achieve good results for the individual. In 2004, drug-dependent final patients’ rights and treatment opportunities in the specialist healthcare system were granted. The Health and Welfare Committee expects them to meet with the same respect as other patient groups because they simply have the same rights. It is demanding that the queue for specialist treatment is still long. It is good that the Directorate-General for Health is working on various measures to strengthen the medical-professional competence of doctors. Our opinion is that this is necessary to provide the necessary health care both in the community health service and in the specialist health service. Although drug medicine is not a specific medical speciality, we have a particular impression that doctors have good possibilities for updating in the field, which we also refer to in our remarks. When the government parties have chosen not to go in on the proposals, it is not because we do not share the main intentions, but because we believe that most things are already taken care of within today's system. It is possible to organise a continuous process of treatment within the current system. The municipalities have an obligation to take action for those waiting for treatment, and we all have a responsibility to increase the competence of drug users in municipalities. An expert group set up by the Directorate-General for Health is working to reach the age limit of 25 years for LAR treatment. We haven't made any sense as to whether it should change or not. In that case, there should be well-documented reasons. But already in today's circular, there is an opening to deviate from the requirement in 25 years, if an overall assessment suggests that it is the best thing for the patient. We are very concerned that LAR treatment must be subject to good controls and delivery procedures, and that, in the context of this treatment, efforts must be made to achieve the ultimate aim of providing LAR patients with a high standard of living at the same time. Only then will it produce results. The Ministry now assesses the basis for any LAR regulation. We believe that this is important, in particular because this assessment should cover the way in which triangle cooperation between LAR centres, permanents and social services is to be ensured. Again, decision-makers are a central partner in this work. Government batches want to be considered to facilitate pilot projects in which decision-makers are given the opportunity to prescribe medical treatment within the LAR. We do not want any idea of how this should be done professionally, or whether it should be started, but we still want an assessment of whether it is possible and proper. If we believe that the patient’s drug problem should be at the centre, we need to be willing to consider new forms. But let me add: we don't think LAR treatment is an easy solution for the individual patient. It is a demanding treatment for the patient over time and may have side effects, like many other medical treatments. Today it is approx. 3500 waiting to be treated under LAR. It's some of the backcloth of our views. An overall committee is generally concerned with the major challenges posed by problems in the Oslo region. As the proposers say, it is important to focus on Rusakutt. We all agree on that, and we believe it should be a natural part of the Capital Process. We recall that the mission document for the current year requested that the emergency function in the Oslo region be strengthened. And that must happen in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e124	The Progress Party shares the concerns of proposers related to current drug use and shares the intention to put in place a more comprehensive treatment chain within the drug field. However, I must be allowed to say that, in addition to what is proposed in the proposal for a representative, other measures need to be put in place to ensure that drug addicts are treated in a good, effective and holistic way. I would remind you that the Progress Party has had a different approach to the functioning of the NAV reform than that adopted. It would be appropriate for drug addicts to have the social service of municipalities integrated into the NAV system, in order to control the whole process of treatment and to facilitate the accountability of the financial instruments. The Progress Party is of the opinion that, with today’s system, the whole of the service provision has already been lost when social services and NAV are separated. Drug users experience a situation where they become wasteballs in the system and responsibility is powdered. The current NAV system should therefore be revised with the aim of including the social service in NAV. We all see that today's system is not working. As we see it, much of the reason is right there. Today it is approx. 3 500 people in line for treatment under the LAR. Despite the government's stated goals of betting on the drug field, there are still long waiting times to get to treatment both in a LAR scheme and for those where total drug abstinence is the goal. There is a need to significantly strengthen the provision of care and treatment to drug addicts, and it is not least important to understand the need to ensure a diversity of treatment services. It's a fact that one today knows too little about what it is that actually works by treatment. Against this background, the Progress Party wants the Government to consider the introduction of an authorisation system for drug treatment under the Directorate-General for Health, in order to provide a better overview, control and research opportunity. We want to provide more funding for research in this field. As I said, the Progress Party supports the proposals. We are promoting our own proposal instead of proposal No. 6 from the Left, but we will support it subsidized. How in the world is it possible to propose an age limit for participation in a LAR offer? Both here and in a number of other cases, age limits related to treatment in the system are proposed to be incredibly square for those in need of help. In the case of participation in a LAR, the underlying story of the individual must be that of the LAR. Setting an age limit will in any case exclude many people from getting an offer, especially when we know that 3,500 are in line. It may be more wrong to offer LAR services to a 30-year-old who may have had a short period of dependence on opiates than to provide a LAR offer to an 18-year-old who may have had an addiction to opiates for several years. That is why we are promoting our own proposal, but we support the Left's proposal in a subsidiary way, as the proposal proposes that participation be assessed on an individual basis. Finally, there is little doubt that the rehabilitation side of drugs needs to be strengthened considerably. Very often it is on the side it fails the most in society. One thing is to put in place a uniform treatment chain, but if this is not followed up with enough funds for rehabilitation, we will waste both on human and financial resources. I am addressing the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e150	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has addressed the suggestions he made. The President has been made aware that the representative, Gunn Olsen, forgot to make a proposal, and she is now given the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e155	I'm sorry that I forgot to take up the proposal of the government parties. I should like to refer to proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e160	The representative of Gunn Olsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e163	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good review of the matter. I will then commend the Left for a good proposal, with the best intentions of strengthening the offer to addicts. Of course, we fully support our intention. Furthermore, the Right supports most of the proposals in the vote, including the proposal for a new rusakut and the proposal that drug addicts should receive a follow-up offer within 24 hours of detoxification. We know that these patients are particularly vulnerable to relapses in the waiting period for treatment. However, the right is critical to a system in which decision-makers are entitled to prescribe drug treatment for drug dependence. It is clear from the evaluation of the LAR that this measure is effective only when it forms part of a comprehensive approach that also includes psychosocial interventions, housing and opportunities for everyday employment. We are already seeing that the rehabilitation measures in the LAR are too weak. We fear that the liberalisation of doctors' prescription will lead us back to the situation we had in the past when doctors prescribed drugs to drug addicts to a large extent without any further follow-up, which actually reduced the state to a longer. Noise treatment is a complex and demanding process, which should thus be a natural task for specialist healthcare, in line with other specialised health care. From the right, we believe that the capacity of LAR treatment, like other drug treatment, needs to be increased. However, we are critical to lower the indicative age limit for LAR treatment. LAR is, for most people, a lifelong treatment with a highly addictive drug, such as alcohol and alcohol. can significantly reduce life expectancy. We believe that drug-free treatment must be the first choice for most, and especially for young addicts. In the right we look with great concern at the drug policy pursued by the Government. When the so-called escalating plan was presented last autumn, it was accompanied by the second worst drug budget in ten years. Only last year's was worse, according to the Trade Council within the Rusfeld. It is clear from the Norwegian patient register that the average waiting time on a national basis has increased in the last half-year. At the same time, 69 places are closed in drug establishments in the south-east of Health and several institutions are threatened with closure. This has led to sharp criticism from both users, professionals and organisations, among others. The Salvation Army. I have noticed that representatives from the government apparatus have argued that this is part of an escalation and a quality development in the sector. The reality is that while people die in line, the government lays down treatment sites. While the rest of the family despaired, house and home to give their loved ones an opportunity to get out of the drug addiction, the red-greens say no to pay the bill. When Stortinget has asked for an escalating plan in the drug field, it is not possible to start laying down places there is a great need. When the goal is to develop quality, it is not possible to begin to rage at long-term built-up environments of competence. The right is therefore pleased with the support of the other opposition parties to our proposal to ask the Government - and it should be quite obvious - to use the capacity of private institutions to ensure faster assistance to drug addicts. We ask the government to stop the discontinuation of drug treatment services, at least before alternatives are in place. It is not certain that all offers at any price should be met - we do not think so either - but we must at least not conclude offers until new treatment sites are established. In the vast majority of institutions, there should also be room to increase quality through positive instruments and through the use of terms and conditions in the agreements of the health regions. The use of tenders may be a good tool for the creation of clean processes, but a sufficient number of points must be purchased to meet the need for services and longer contracts must be possible. I fully agree with the representative, Gunn Olsen, who says that the long treatment queues are demanding. In this case, treatment sites should not be reduced, but increased in number, so that more people can receive rapid, dignified and good treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e180	I would like to add first that SV has fallen into one of the Committee's major comments, in the vote on page 4. This concerns the point where the majority support the proposers in that ‘it is unworthy that today it is about. 3 500 people in line for treatment under LAR offer’. I just wanted to make this clear. As the proposers point out, it stands today at approx. 3 500 people in a queue for LAR treatment. This is unworthy. I am pleased that we have now received an escalation plan for the drug field as an important tool to improve the quality and strengthen the supply of drug addicts. I share the concerns of drug addicts' association regarding the proposal that permanent doctors may be given the opportunity to provide medical treatment to their patients. As we have said in the setting, it is important that LAR treatment is subject to good control and delivery procedures. LAR is part of a multi-disciplinary specialised treatment, and it is vital that social work is also followed up. To follow up on the R in LAR, namely rehabilitation, individual level is an important tool. Like our government partners, we want it to be considered to facilitate trial projects in which decision-makers are given the opportunity to prescribe medical treatment within LAR. This possibility must be subject to social follow-up, among others. through individual planes. As pointed out by the Association Against Rustox, methadone, Subutex and Suboxone do not in themselves provide education, social networking for those who have lost it, or help to provide housing. In SV’s view, drug addicts who are being treated must be closely monitored and given an individualised follow-up. Such follow-up may involve schooling, labour market measures, help to create a new network, adapted housing, leisure and activity provision and debt assistance. I am pleased that the Government is now assessing the basis for the introduction of any regulation for the LAR and that this assessment will include how cooperation between LAR centres, permanent agencies and social services is to be ensured. A wide and varied range of services for drug addicts is important. It is also important to have good drug-free treatment. We are facing major challenges related to an overall commitment to the drugs field. The government has put in place a contingency plan for the drug field to improve and ensure an overall follow-up of drug addicts. It is important to follow up the plan and to ensure good quality of treatment provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e203	I would like to thank the Left for this document No. The 8th proposal. We need a great deal of discussion on drug policy in this matter. The Christian People's Party supports several of the proposals, but not those that seek to provide easier access to drug treatment. I would like to refer here to the good reasons for our position on the matter by Mr Sjöli. The Christian People's Party adheres to the arguments and attitudes of the Right. In my opinion, we should have had great attention to complex, flexible, long-term and holistic services for drug users. It's per. Today -- I'll say it like this -- deep despair both in the opposition parties and not least in the care of the russian over what's going on, especially in the area that we're in here, that's Health South-East. We're going towards summer, and in our cities, drug use and drug abuse are increasing. In Oslo, after detoxification sites have closed down, the waiting time has increased dramatically. In addition, health South-East has changed its professional attitudes to long-term treatment through its round of tenders. It is no wonder that both the opposition parties on the Stortinget and an overall drug environment in this area are deeply despondent on behalf of drug addicts and their families. Let me give you one example: A young boy has had a lot of problems with intoxication for many, many years. It's totally unsustainable for the family, he's been given little help. Then, fortunately, through Health South-East, he received an offer of three years of treatment far from home. That's fantastic. For the first time in many years, this boy is in recovery. It's not a very old boy--I call him 'good'; he's a young adult man. For the first time, he will be allowed to come home and attend a large family event. Then it came as a shock to this family a few days ago: Health South-East cuts the deal with the institution he has now been at in approx. Six months. Not enough with that, they're asking him to find his own place in another institution, but don't say where. In addition, it is now decided that long-term treatment is only one year. So he only has half a year left in a possible new institution, because he's already spent half a year where he is. The last two years he should have been there are suddenly gone. Seriously! If there is any meaning or any team in the Government's constant statement that no institutional spaces should be closed before new and better establishment, it must apply to individual patients. I have to say that if there is any team in it, the Council of State has to stop Health South-East in what they are now about to do. Some say they're raging the drug supply in the Health South-East area. There are people in the drug community who say this. There are many individual ships similar to the one this young man now experiences. The family is crying and despairing. This is just one example, I actually have more. Is that how we want it in Norway? Is this the Russ policy of the Stoltenberg government? I'm out of time. I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e220	As the rapporteur, Mr Olsen, said, the good intentions behind the proposals made in this document are good. At the same time, it is important to stress that several of these things are working on it. Gunn Olsen showed, among others: a special focus is placed on this in medical training. But I want to say: within medicine, drugs have never been the area that has been prioritised, or that has been held high. It reflects, I think, some of how you look at drug users, and how the drug supply is in many places. I believe the whole committee believes that the offer to drug users should be better. More should be involved in it. Several should have had strong opinions, which could in a way contribute to the increase in engagement within this field. I think it has something to do with many looking at drug users as losers, rather than seeing that here there are people who have come into such a life situation that they have to be helped and promised. When a person comes to treatment, it is essential to have a continuous treatment chain. We're concerned about that in other areas. A heart patient is closely followed up after a heart operation, one with femoral fractures, or one with a cancer patient. With regard to the patient group we are talking about here, drug users, I feel that there have been a lack of continuous treatment chains. There is too little use of an individual plan whereby both the drug user, the social service, the municipality and the specialist health service commit themselves. I also think it has something to do with many looking at the treatment of drug users who are scarce, unfortunately. But I believe that the goal should not always be that he or she should become a drug-free person. Not all people can be. The goal must be to improve the quality of life for the drug user. I believe that both the social service and the specialist health service - yes, the whole healthcare system - should contribute to this. This must be done by providing housing; it must be done by following people in these groups closely so that they can have a better quality of life. We all agree that when 3,500 are waiting to enter the LAR, in medically assisted rehabilitation, there are too many. I know the government will follow this up. But medically assisted rehabilitation is about much more than just getting a drug. It's also about rehabilitation. I believe that there are many people around the municipalities who fail in this area, who do not actually make the municipality obliged to do, namely to follow up with a close offer, with housing, bottling, labour training, etc. I hope that everyone who has a responsibility in this sector actually increases the attention and commitment to a group of people who have it very difficult in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e232	I am actually here and am a little surprised, and the reason is that I had actually hoped and believed that the government party would go into some of the proposals we have made today. When I have the surprise in me, I go back to 2004 and find a nice chronicle written by Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the Labour Party's health policy spokesman in 2004. It is called ‘Narcoma must not die in queue’. He writes: ‘As a health politician, I cannot sit calm and watch people with life-threatening disorders die in line, and doctors become criminals if they try to help.’ And then he continued: ‘Tunds of heavy drug users are in line for treatment. Many die waiting. In the hope of getting medical help to get out of a desperate life situation, many seek out their decision maker. But although many doctors want to help, the law refuses them to treat these patients with medicines like methadone and Subutex." Yes, these were wise words. But no government has been good enough to bring down overdose deaths. It is unintelligible that the Labour Party can stand up to this censure in 2004, but then he leaves when they come to government. So on behalf of the left, I want to underline an important thing. Of course, we do not believe that drug treatment will solve all problems for drug users. We believe that this is the sum of all the measures involved, which also many other speakers have been involved in. We're talking about rehabilitation, but I think I have to quote something that was said in Eidsvoll's place today. There were 244 balloons here, and each balloon represented an overdose death in Oslo in 2007. There was one of the appellants who said, "An excuse to rehabilitate someone is that they're alive." That's an important point that we have to take with us. The drug users are not supposed to die in a queue, but they are. We know that over 2,000 have died of overdose in the last ten years. The left wants everyone who wants treatment to get it. And then the auxiliaries have to run a little after those who are not motivated. And then housing, social relations and a system around of course have to work. Drug treatment with methadone and Subutex does not replace lost education, loss of self-respect and absence of social networks. The LAR system is too rigid. It's too much A4 requirements, and it's for a group of people who are absolutely not A4. Many years of abuse make people unfriendly to rigid rules. In addition, LAR is expensive, and a lot of money is spent on control measures - only urine samples cost more than 200 million. kr per year. One of our suggestions here is that we want a pilot project that defines special competence and interest in Ruspacers can distribute appropriate medical treatment, Subutex, Subuxone or the like, and provide close follow-up. We think the project should be earmarked for heavy drug users and have an age limit of 20 years. We believe that many overdoses and deaths could be avoided if the system had been set up so that one hour to be treated with once the detoxification was complete. It has one, as many know, done in Stockholm, and Left wants it in Norway as well. It does not help anyone to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars in detention in a drug institution if the drug addict is sent back to miserable housing and extremely poor economy, and to the environment where everyone around them is rushing. For us, it is incomprehensible that a first-line service is not provided even within the drug field, so that patients can be rehabilitated before they become so poor that they qualify for the guidelines that must be satisfied today before the patient can receive LAR treatment. There's a lot of incomprehensible here. I think we're here, but we all have to take the step -- we have to dare to do something new. I wish we had come this far. In the end, I take up the suggestions that the Left is behind, alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e268	The representative Gunvald Ludvigsen has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e271	The provision of drug addicts shall be developed in order to meet future needs for multidisciplinary specialised treatment. Today, I fully agree with all the speakers who have said that this is not good enough. We're not on target, and there's obviously still a lot of challenges. There are too many drug addicts who experience incoherent services and poor quality. Others have succeeded in gaining new lives, which is illustrated by the New One. I am, like what I experience all the other speakers in this room are, concerned that everyone with drug addiction should receive good multidisciplinary specialised treatment and necessary rehabilitation and follow-up without interruption, as the goal is for other patients. Employees and managers in specialised drug treatment, municipalities and private drug institutions must and should cooperate closely on treatment and rehabilitation for people with drug dependence. Such cooperation must be strengthened, and multi-disciplinary specialised treatment is therefore closely linked to the follow-up and rehabilitation of municipalities. I would also like to point out the need to listen to those involved, and their relatives, and especially to take care of the young in any treatment. I would like briefly to mention the proposals that have been put forward. Firstly, the Health Directorate is now working on measures to strengthen the medical-professional competence of doctors. Under the direction of the Center for Drug and Addiction Research at the University of Oslo, basic courses in drug medicine are given on different treatment measures for drug addicts. There is a course in what is called the 12-step model, and a deeper course in drug care and mental health protection. In addition, regional courses in drug medicine are organised for doctors. There is currently no medical speciality, but the courses I have mentioned will count for relevant specialities. The same applies to parts of the specialist training in psychiatry, which may be taken within departments for multidisciplinary specialised treatment. In the case of point 2, let me establish two essential aspects: Drug addicts have the same patient rights as other specialist healthcare patients. Those who are considered to have the most serious disorders shall be brought to their attention first and be offered treatment within a specified time limit. The time limit shall be set in the light of the seriousness of the situation.Everyone is entitled, and shall receive, an individual assessment of his condition. Already today, it is possible to facilitate a coherent process of treatment. But here it fails too many times. I have asked regional health companies to strengthen the interaction between specialist health services and municipalities for patients with complex needs. Thirdly, today’s circular opens up the possibility of a derogation from the 25-year limit for the provision of medically assisted rehabilitation, if it is justified by an overall assessment. In Ot.prp. No 53 for 2006-2007, as the Odelstinget treated last autumn, provides, as is known, a basis in the Patient Rights Act to provide detailed rules on LARs, including intake and printing criteria. The Ministry of Health and Health now assesses whether parts of medically assisted rehabilitation should be prescribed. I aim to be done with that treatment during this summer. With regard to the issue of fixed doctors and LARs, it is not desirable, from our point of view, that doctors should be generally given responsibility for medically assisted rehabilitation. It is a form of treatment for persons with severe and complex disorders and must be subject to specialist assessment, control and delivery procedures. But the settlers are usually playing an important role. There must be good cooperation here. I have noticed the desire that has come from several people, to have trials where doctors can prescribe appropriate medical treatment. We're going to have to do a proper assessment of that. However, it is nevertheless desirable to further develop LAR in a form that ensures interaction between all those involved in the rehabilitation process. It's not always like that today. In this year's mission document, Health South-East has been asked to strengthen the offer of acute detoxification in the Oslo region. I have attended several meetings with the management of both the Municipality of Oslo and Health South-East about this, also to clarify the responsibilities in this area. It's an important part of the process now underway in the entire capital. Finally, in the case of the example that the representative Davøy had here, of a patient who was no longer given help, and who had been told that he had to apply for a new place of residence, I would say that this should not be the case. I'm going to investigate it immediately. Health South-East has assured me that all patients, regardless of what is now happening in this bidding round, will have to be insured for further treatment, and then they will have to be treated elsewhere. So I'm going to check that out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e304	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e307	It is a tragedy for individuals and for families and relatives when they experience drug addiction. We know that today there are 3,500 people in line for treatment. At the same time, it is felt that private clinics are being swept out by health businesses. Then we talk about private clinics that have better educational skills and offers than public institutions, and at the same time can show much better results when it comes to getting people out of drugs. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: what specific, concrete action has she taken to get the 3,500 who are in line today, into a situation where they are actually offered help when they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e314	Firstly, I can fully agree with the description of those who end up in such a situation, and their relatives. That's understandable enough very difficult, and they deserve, like everyone else, help when they need it, no matter what level they need it. It's not good enough everywhere today. So to the question of private institutions -- I expect that the representative is still talking about Health South-East and the bidding round that has been there. Private institutions are widely used in the care of drug users, and I think that is right. About 60 pst. of what is purchased by services in this area is at private drug institutions, and that is because many of them can offer very good quality. The government is very concerned that people with drug problems, like everyone else, are meeting with good quality offers. That has not always been the case within the care of the drug. Therefore, it must also be included in the offers made. But it's spending more money on this this year than it was last year, and it's also buying more private services. But we're not in the goal-- we're not, of course, when there's so many people waiting and not getting the necessary treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e323	As I was in my post, the waiting time for drug treatment has increased significantly in the last year. At the same time, there are places - 69 in Health South-East. In addition, the Fossanåsen treatment centre in Buskerud has no agreement, despite the fact that they have cooperated with Health South-East on the establishment of the offer. Several of these institutions indicate that they now have to sell places on the private market. That means that there are those who have money that can buy space. However, the staff of the institutions say that there are many relatives who are desperate and who pledge what they have of values to accommodate their closest. They don't dare take the chance to stand in a public queue. The right proposes 25 million in the revised budget. for the purchase of more than one treatment centre in the private drug institutions, so that relatives will not be in large debt in order to pay for the necessary treatment. Is the Council of State in agreement with the Right in this, and will she then follow up on our proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e332	I agree that a maximum use should be made of private individuals in a positive sense to help those who need help, for example. private institutions as far as possible and as long as they are of good quality. Some of the reasons why it becomes a bit more expensive services include: that they are now working with more health professionals in some of these institutions to improve quality. I have understood that the Right – at least far on the way – agrees that it is important. It is important that those who need it most come first - in this area as in the health sector. Therefore, I believe it is important to use all the private capacity as much as possible, along with what we can offer in public. I just want to repeat, this is luckily going forward. It's not like waiting times have increased dramatically. The numbers we have for last year are relatively stable, but the waiting time is too long for many of those who should have had treatment in a much shorter time-- so here we have to get better. We need to spend more money, and we need to make more use of what we have to play on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e341	First to my example: I thank the Council of State for going in and looking at this patient history. I am aware that the Council of State has also received an e-mail about this for some time. But then the question that goes on with long-term treatment. Does the State Council believe it is right that health south-east through a bidding round amend the definition and use of long-term treatment? Should it not have been done after a professional and political discussion, if any, and not as part of a tendering round? That's what happened here!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e348	I think what's important in the care of drugs, which is otherwise, is that individual needs are taken into account. It is obvious that there are quite a number of people who need long-term treatment, but there are also quite a few who need a little shorter treatment. This I have had dialogue with Health South-East about, and that means that it will be not only short-term treatment that will be offered to the inhabitants of Health South-East, but also long-term treatment. The whole chain needs to be strengthened. I also feel that the Christian People's Party and the government parties agree that the whole chain from the prevention work to the treatment that will take place afterwards must be strengthened. In addition, we need adequate treatment facilities, and there must be treatment facilities that actually help, but there must also be someone there afterwards, so that those who get help can come back to as normal a life as possible. Health South-East shall, within its responsibility, provide both long-term and short-term treatment to meet the needs of the inhabitants of the region as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e355	I quoted from Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's chronicle in 2004, and I registered that the Council of State did not come up with any of what I said. But at least I can say that I thought it was a very good chronicle that was in Norway's largest newspaper on April 20, 2004. The author was, as Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said, and he was given the title of a Health Policy Spokesman of the Labour Party. I have the chronicle in front of me, and I'll quote a little further: ‘As a health politician, I can’t sit still and watch people with life-threatening disorders die in line, and doctors become criminals if they try to help. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes to grant permanent doctors the right to decide whether patients should be offered medically assisted treatment.’ My question is: does the Labour Party and the Government take a distance from what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said in 2004?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e368	I have not read the chronicle mentioned. There's probably a lot of good there, so there's no reason not to believe that that's right, what Bjarne Håkon Hanssen certainly wrote. The government's policy in relation to the prescription of medicines and the handling of LAR is that we believe it requires specialist training. But I've noticed the wish of several parties here in Stortinget to try something out in the firm. I promise that we will assess this properly. Regardless of how a person organises this, it is necessary that there is a very strong and good cooperation between the local authorities and the service provision for the rest, and not least, as many people have been involved, between the social services and the multidisciplinary treatment. Otherwise, this government has granted approx. 350 million. kr more to this sector after we took over. I don't think this is a sector in which there are very simple answers - that a pincher in the fingers and thus it is solved. I also believe that governments before we have experienced, but we have to move on that way, think new, bet on what works, and use both human and financial resources on such an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e377	I expect the government to believe that it was the Stortinget that had granted this money, and not the Government - because it is the Stortinget that grants, not the Government. I have a question for the Council of State. In its reply to the representative, the Council of State was involved in the use of long-term sites. The Council of State said it's important that we not only have short-term places and LARs, but that we also bet in long-term places. The councils also said in their reply that she has been in dialogue with Health South-East about it. The problem is how to define a long-term place. Within the tender that Health South-East has been prepared - and that is based on what they purchased now - a long-term space has been defined to have a duration of between six and twelve months. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State really think that twelve months is to be considered as a long time in the treatment of the heavy drug users who are not going into a LAR system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e384	Firstly, it is seaworthy so that it is the Storting that grants, so it was a speech error if it sounded different. I think the representative understands that. In the case of Health South-East, it's in the old east where there's been competition on terms, as it's called. I don't want to go into this, because I don't have the professional expertise to be able to say if that's what works for those who need help. But what I'm absolutely sure is that for some people, twelve months can be right -- that's what they need -- while for others there will be a need for longer. It depends on the entire offer given around the treatment. That means, as far as I know, the rounds are not finished in the south part of Health South-East. They have a responsibility to ensure both short-term and long-term treatment - it is less than one year and over one year, as needed, depending on the individual needs of each. The views expressed in this debate, I would like to take with me back to Health South-East to ensure that they are offered to all those who have different needs within the current deadlines.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e393	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e398	There's been a lot of good posts in this room, and there's obviously a good and proper commitment to this group of people. But let's take one thing in on us right away: drugs are not a uniform group. They are individuals with different needs, who will respond differently to different types of treatment provision. When we talk about the drug addicts, it might seem like everyone's going into a system. It's just diversity that's the important thing. Furthermore, it is also the right to an individual plan, but it does not help to have the right to an individual plan if the plan is not followed, or is not drawn up, as it actually requires it to be done. During the period 1997-2001, the current representative John Alvheim and the representative Einar Olav Skogholt of the Workers' Party proposed a number of measures to improve the provision of drugs, and not least reduce the number of overdose deaths. In the period 2001-2005 John Alvheim proposed this together with the current Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. Many of the measures that they have promoted are in line with the proposal that the Left has now promoted in this document. In fact, it is strange that no more of these proposals are endorsed by the government parties, because, at least the Labour Party, together with the Advance Party, has been a driving force in these matters. That's what I think is sad, but at least I'm taking with me and I'm glad that the Council of State has said that she will evaluate some of these things, and hopefully this will be evaluated quickly. We're talking a lot about LAR, and we're also talking a lot about short-term places and how we're going to get this done. However, I feel that we are losing focus on those who are going to have an offer without medically assisted rehabilitation. As we have just seen in the line change here related to the long-term locations, 12 months of treatment in such an institution is far too short for many. They need time, they need time to rehabilitate, they need time to get control of the abuse they may have had for a number of years. Then it is wrong to remove as many places as you have done in Health South-East, not because you have this on offer, but because the focus of the offer is wrong. Actually, we can't have it that way. We have to bring down the waiting time, and we have to make sure that we have a great variation in the offer that we give. We have to stop talking about the drug addicts as a uniform group, and view the drug addict as a single person, a single person who is to have the same rights as us. This means that we must also be able to offer a varied offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e409	I cannot see or hear that neither the representative Ludvigsen nor the representative Nesvik has so many better answers to the major challenges in the field of drugs than the government parties have. We make clear in our comments, among other things. that we want the Government to assess whether decision-makers can go in more closely and prescribe LAR, for example: So it's like the working methods in the government parties are something different than in the opposition. It's not a surprise. As regards the 20-year LAR treatment limit, it is true that, even after today’s rounding, or what it is called, there are opportunities to assess the 20-year limit if, after an overall assessment, it is assumed that it is best for the patient. But this is also one thing that the Health Directorate is going to go through, and we'll get feedback on it in a little bit. Then I do not agree with the representative Ludvigsen that it is not being put up for a good first line service. I think that's absolutely what you do. But I think we're all going to admit that it takes time to build up a satisfactory device for drug addicts in the municipal sector. It is a demanding field in which things are still happening, and it has not been the same culture in the municipal health service as in the specialist health service. But I think those who work in this field are striving to increase their competence in the field. Then I agree with the representative Harald T. Nesvik that we really need a diversity in the Ru area. Because, as the representative says, this is a very complex group. I am convinced that very many of the private non-profit institutions do a great job in caring for drug users. Many of them have very good skills, they have a lot of experience, and not least we find many fires right there. I think we need fires over time to work on this field. So, as the Council of State also pointed out, health businesses have been told to give priority to the drug field. I'm assuming they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e426	This is an important, useful and absolutely necessary debate, and it must be kept warm. We must never let go of these challenges. The representative of the Kärlaa said that this has never been an area that has been held high or given priority. I would like to remind the representative that it was in fact the Co-operation Administration that granted these patients patients patients patients rights in line with those who have somatic disorders in the specialist health service in 2004. It was precisely because they wanted to give priority to these patients and give them good treatment that they were given the same rights. But is it followed up by the red-green government? -I still have to ask. It seems to me that they will and they will, but they will not. You could ask yourself what's going on. The representative of the Skjälaa further said that everyone who has a responsibility has to increase the attention and commitment of this group of patients. Yes, I really hope so, and I am sending this call to the government parties. I'm actually very surprised that if they don't seem completely satisfied with the offer, they seem to be satisfied with their own commitment. But when it comes to action, as the representative said, those who are now responsible must pay more attention and take responsibility. They have a majority and have absolute opportunity to do so. I agree with the Brustad Council that there are many challenges, and we are not on target. The council also said something that I fully agree with, and that is that now we have to listen to them. And who is it? Well, it's the patients, and it's the relatives. Then I think they experience it the way I experience it, that there is a sea between the reality that the government council and the government parties show, and the reality that the patients, the relatives and the addicts meet. Yes, I have to say as the Council of State, it's really important to listen to them. I'm not sure the government parties have done it to a large extent. I think most of us receive e-mails every day from the desperate and desperate users who do not receive treatment, from drug professionals and from many of the drug addicts' organisations. And the question is, have the government parties and the government council listened enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e442	In connection with the capital process, we had a very interesting meeting with the Council of State in her office. Then Health South-East suggested that they would introduce shorter periods of sleep within the somatic environment for a number of different patient groups. As I see it today, it may seem that health south-east is laying the same kind of -- we're going to say -- philosophy grounded in the care of the russian, with more outpatient and shorter bedtime. I'm very worried. There's only 15 long-term places - except for one year, as we define long-term places - that are offered within this large area. It worries me. I just want to put it heavily into the council. Then I agree with the Council of State and the representative, Sjøli, that listening to patients is very important. I was at least a short time ago at a meeting with some families who have had drug abusers. What was most interesting there was that I met a former drug patient who had taken his last shot, as he said, at the end of the 1990s. He went still in the drug environment in Oslo and looked for old friends. There weren't so many of them again, he said. But what strikes him today -- and he said it very strongly -- is that so to speak, there is no one in the Oslo community who goes to the LAR who does not also abuse other drugs. Why? - I asked. No, it's because LAR is the only thing they've got. There are no social measures. They do not have any treatment. So it's kind of going and rushing again at the same time as they go on the LAR. And he was very clear on that. Therefore, there is also one reason why we are quite sceptical about the attempts to prescribe LAR treatment, which the Council of State now says they will really look at. We see that there are far too few other offers to LAR patients over time. My question to the Council of State is: now that we see this negative development, shouldn't we be much more stringent than what we've done in the past, on the criteria for the use of LAR? Should it not be that no one should be given LAR treatment unless it is demonstrated that the provider of LAR treatment has made sure that treatment is provided in addition, that social services are provided in addition, and that it is absolutely certain that this will be followed up during the LAR period?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e451	First of all, I would like to thank you for having become a serious debate on a very important topic. It is important that even if there is a little disagreement about something, we will at least see the issue on the agenda, and now we will probably get positive solutions. I would like to thank the State Council for opening up to see if it can be determined to search for and get the responsibility to provide LAR treatment. At least I think it was a very positive signal from a lot of holders. Then I thought it was okay that the representative Nesvik had a little more history update from two key health politicians, John I. Alvheim and Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. This may indicate that the inconsistency that appears to be present here is not very great. I really don't think the inconsistency is so big. Of course, I agree with those who say - as the Council of State also said - that there are no simple solutions. Obviously, it's not, we're very specific about that. The left wants more of everything when it comes to the treatment of drug users, but we have to be willing to look at how other countries have solved these problems. It's not just in Norway we wear -- we're not an island in the world -- they wear all around. But some have tried other methods, methods that we don't try in Norway, and that we in some way don't dare to use. We know that in France they have reduced the number of overdose deaths by over 80 pst. At least there are numbers that I think it's reasonable to believe. It is such a good result that Norwegian health authorities must be willing to go into numbers and look at how they have done it. Is there something we can also build on with us?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e462	First of all, I want to say a few words to the Christian People's Party. I guess there's no one in this room who really wants to deliver any of what you're actually doing in a LAR offer. The big question here is, what's the consequence of not doing this? When we look at our own short story related to drug use and the explosion we had in the number of overdose deaths at the end of the 1990s, this is a consequence. If we remove the offer, I'm afraid the consequence will be an explosion in the number of overdose deaths. If we want to treat drug addicts as equivalent people, we have to think about the consequences for many. What we need today is an offer when the individual applies for help. We do not have that offer today, and it is very critical. We know that 3 500 people are in line. The second thing we need is a complete rehabilitation. There's one thing I want to problem a little bit around. It's that today we have an age limit of 25 to get LAR treatment. We know that it is possible to deviate from this requirement. When the situation is that 3,500 people are in line, it becomes an illusion to think that the individual’s history of drug addiction is the basis for getting help. Then, unfortunately, the system becomes very square and will be used against some, i.e. creating a system that excludes many people who need help. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that the underlying history of drug addiction must actually be that of the individual, in line with the individual’s history of disease on the basis of which treatment should be related.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e474	Confronted with the question of how it relates to the closure of treatment centres in the care of drug users, while the waiting times for treatment are increasing, both the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister have repeatedly replied to the Storting by pointing out that this is due to the tendering process. It must obviously be wrong. This is, of course, due to those who direct the tendering process, because it is those who define the quality requirements. Long-term treatment demands are being made, for example: The bidding process itself does not control anything. Those are the ones who define the terms and conditions, and if the result is bad, you can't hide behind the tendering process. The Council of State referred several times to its dialogue with Health South-East. If the Council of State in its dialogue with Health South-East, which is going on behind closed doors, says the same thing as she says in her dialogue with the Stortinget here today, namely to focus on individual assessments, to focus on flexibility, etc., then either hearing needs to be reduced in the regional health company, or the ability to perceive the message must be limited. It is, for me at least, quite impossible to understand how to define conditions that are so square that you set a fixed number of calendar days, which should apply regardless of the patient's condition and regardless of the forecast, and where the treatment offer should be discontinued when the calendar says it. How it can be reconciled with the approach adopted by the Council of State when engaged in dialogue with the Grand Duchy is very difficult to understand. This must be possible for the Council of State in its dialogue with regional health enterprises, for example. to say quite clearly that treatment sites should not be closed at all until there is at least an equivalent offer to replace them. The reason why so many people react both by organisations and by professionals in this field in terms of what is happening in Health South-East is that they see that this is what is happening - as a result of a square approach, treatment sites are being used very well, without being able to come up with satisfactory alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e483	I want to focus a little on another side of it with drugs and drug treatment. Prevention has not been mentioned in a word in this context. The size has treated St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, called ‘... and no one was left’, highlighting the importance of early interventions. As soon as you see that children get into trouble, you have to be able to meet them. Early efforts shall include, inter alia: be involved in tackling problems by organising interdisciplinary teams around children very early. This work is being done. You think about the municipality, and you think about the focus of each child. The importance of strengthening primary health services has also been seen in the context of hospital and hospital structures. In this kind of conversion - by thinking early, by thinking where children live, and that treatment should be more likely to be introduced there, in the long term - I think we are starting to think that we should have a preventive policy to prevent us from getting more and more drug users. A prerequisite for getting individual plans around the individual drug user is to have good multidisciplinary teams built up in the municipalities, so that you are able to follow up such plans. Having good social networks and good housing is also about having the opportunity to facilitate it in local settings. These are things that the Government is now very focused on. Government parties see the importance of following up children early, as well as strengthening measures around individuals at municipal level, from the very beginning. I think that has been too much attention in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e492	To the representative of Wage, who says that the Prime Minister and I on behalf of the Government are hiding us behind tendering processes: it is not, of course, correct. I understand that the representative's salary and others are concerned with the content of what is now not as pure-bred a tender as it was under the previous government - and there were many who were despaired about - but that is a competition in a slightly different way. But if it is true that the Right now believes that everyone, in any case, will get a yes, there is no point either to have a competition or a tender, and in that case there is nothing new. Health South-East has a responsibility to secure its citizens an offer, and, after an individual assessment, to ensure the provision of good quality - and it's seaworthy as the representative Nesvik said from this pulpit, that people with drug problems too have very different needs - and that's what Health South-East and others have to provide is there. I hear that there are views on the content they have based on, and I am going to take that back with me. Then to the representative, Davøy. I fully agree that LAR has to be something more than just medicine. It's the whole package that's important here, as many people have been about, both work and social services and coming back. Let me use an example of an institution that is obviously considered to be of good quality, and it looks one at the results. It's an institution called Fredheim Vernehjem in Ringsaker, which has some of the heaviest drug addicts from this city. So they get very good results, and they think that the setup that is now based on makes them even more demanding, which means that they are given better opportunities to their users, both in terms of the problem themselves, and also in terms of being able to get back to life as normal as possible, such as, among other things. contains the activity, dwelling and the type of thing. That's the kind of offer we have to have more of. That is why I agree with Mr Davøy that we must have a variety of offers differently. When it comes to representatives Fredriksen and the LAR-age limit, I just repeat what I said instead, and as several speakers have said, there are exceptions to the general rule here, but again: even after an individual assessment. I also agree with the representative Ludvigsen that we should look to other countries. But this government has demanded, like the previous one, that the growth within the drug field and the psychiatry should be greater than within the somatic environment. Fortunately, it's followed up in hospitals, but that doesn't mean everything's solved. Finally, I want to say, and the representative Saxi was in on it: everything is related to everything. I wish that those parties that I'm happy to have a great commitment to the good quality of the treatment offer had the same strong commitment to look at what it is that makes young people get problems. Does this hang, for example: And also with a very liberal bulwark policy and other things, which some of the parties are at the forefront of by going in to keep it as open as possible? I hope the commitment is the same at all stages of this important problem, from prevention to after protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e507	What made me take the floor was the contribution from the representative, Mr. Davøy, who spoke about LAR, medically assisted rehabilitation. She said that people go to LAR treatment and rush anyway, and that there might be a need to tighten up on the criteria. In fact, I think it is quite remarkable to hear that people who have been through a number of treatments, who have tried so much, who have managed to get involved in medically assisted rehabilitation, possibly after a crack or two, should also be swept out of such a scheme. I think it is very regrettable to hear this from a representative who I actually thought was concerned that even drug care is about something more than just abstinence, that it is also about getting a better quality of life. Then we all agree that one should have a good framework around this -- and I actually also used that time to talk about in my post -- with accommodation, training and one with the other, while they get medication. But it doesn't have to be that way that we should actually tighten up and exclude people who have been through so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e512	Laila Bavøy has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e515	The size, all lots, has several times in different settings indicated that LAR should be followed by other necessary measures. That's my point. When we hear today that so many patients in Oslo who go to medically assisted rehabilitation are rushing in addition - this comes from the drug environment itself - I think it is absolutely necessary to call for a warning. And yes, I think you should tighten up the criteria for using the LAR, as I said in my post instead, so that there is a more difficult start in the LAR in that way that no one gets it unless it is accompanied by other necessary measures at the same time. There are too many people today who just get LAR as the only treatment. These are examples, and this should not happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e524	The Council of State was in its last reply in the vicinity of putting it in the same way as the Prime Minister has done in this Chamber, that is to say, in the case of competitive tenders, it is necessary to accept that there are some who are losing. It was precisely what I was aiming for, that it would be completely wrong to use the reference to tender rules as a justification for not being able to give sufficient priority to the drug field in terms of the volume of the offer. What is crucial is not the technical procedure for the use of tenders; the crucial thing is how much money you are willing to spend on buying places. The loser is not the institutions that don't get the award, it's the users that don't get the offer, it's the losers. It's a little strange that it doesn't seem to worry the Council of State the least. It would be more close to choosing the approach to ask, when the waiting time increases, and when the number of treatment places is reduced at the same time - can we really afford to let well-established private institutions be closed because they are not paid for the places with public funds? Would it not be close to considering the principle that at least not well-established professional environments are being dissolved and well-established institutions need to close the door before you are absolutely sure that you have at least as good and at least as numerous public offerings? Today, it's going to happen in the reverse order. It is based on principles that lead to waiting times increasing and treatment sites being closed down. Then you're going to assume that maybe in the future you're going to step up the public offer. It is well possible to accept competition where some people lose in most areas, but it is not possible to accept a policy that leads to the loss of the weakest, namely those in need of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e533	I understand that the representative is trying to create a picture that this government, our parties and our representatives are neither engaged nor concerned about people with drug problems. It's actually completely wrong. Another fact is that we're not busy with volume. Of course we are. That's one of the reasons why this government has proposed and this Stortinget - I assume - has adopted 350 million. kr more to this sector than when we took over after the government in which the Right sat. So it is also that last year's waiting times were stable in this area, but I fully agree that they are too long because there is not enough help in all parts of the country. Then the representative says that we're riding principles, and then I ask, what are the principles of the representative's salary that we're riding? 60 pst. of what is purchased within this sector is purchased from private non-profit institutions. In this sector, as in the areas of rehabilitation, child protection and many other areas, we are very concerned to have good and close contact and close cooperation with private non-profit institutions - above all - and that is what we have to those degrees. It is absolutely necessary in this sector. The public builds up. We're spending more money on this sector, and we're thinking volume, but we're very busy with quality. What is the health task of the South-East -- I'm going to take with me the signals that come from many speakers here -- is that they have to secure their inhabitants. Now we're talking about old Health East, where they've had this round already, old Health South is not finished. They have to make sure that those who need help actually get it according to their individual needs. In this context, we must have diversity. I hear the discussions around LAR. I think it is absolutely right and necessary that some people get LAR. Now it's not like it's 3,500 waiting to get LAR. It's a significantly smaller number, but if we look at the queue overall for different types of multidisciplinary specialised treatment, it's probably for many who are in line. For some people, the LAR will be the right one, but it's seafaring with a broader scope than just drugs, and for others, there will be other offers that are the right one. We're doing the best we can. We're going to do even more on this sector both in terms of money and other things. But I have to say I'm reacting when representatives, especially from the Right, try to create a picture that we're not engaged, when we can knowingly both show more money in this area and other things that make more people get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e550	Sonja Irene Sjøli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e553	I would like to ask the Council of State if she believes that all the treatment facilities and institutions that are now at risk of closure do not meet professional objectives, and that they do not have sufficient quality. If the answer is yes and many treatment sites are still needed, why is it not possible for health firms or the Council of State to ensure, through their governance, that these institutions are able to improve their quality by cooperating, interacting, so that more people can receive treatment? I have the impression that we agree that we need more places, that more people need treatment. Then you have to bet on those who have actually given good deals for years, and make sure that the quality meets the requirements we have set. When so many are in line, I find it pointless that treatment is being discontinued.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e558	We are moving towards the end of the debate. At least in some areas, the Council of State has stretched out a hand and said that one will now look at some of this and follow up. I think that's positive. I also hope that the Government will soon present a case to the Stortinget about a comprehensive treatment offer in the area of drugs, and that in this context, the recordings that have been made in the debate today are taken seriously. We can disagree on things, and we can disagree on a lot of things, but I think we have to at least try to find an offer that gets better than today for this group, just to save lives and make sure that the most possible comes out of it-- excuse the expression, but that's what it is-- the drug hell they're actually in. Then I have to make a comment to the representative Laila Davøy. I hope the representative doesn't mean what she actually said from this pulpit, that no one should get into the LAR system without everything else in place from day one. Then we'll see that the number of overdose deaths goes straight to the weather. I would strongly warn against it. I hope that what Laila Bavøy actually meant was that you should have a claim for a follow-up and a quote at the same time, that you should not get caught up in it the other way. LAR is initially a life-saving treatment in many ways, and care must be taken to ensure that the measures are followed around the individual. We must not get there that we should tighten the LAR system further, or remove it too many. Then many lives will be lost. We can't risk that. I expect me and the representative Davøy to be fully in line with this. It is important that these measures are followed up. We must not do it in such a way that more people die in this queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e568	The noise problem that we see especially here in the capital, Oslo, but also elsewhere in the country, says something about the everyday lives of individuals and families. More and more are becoming dependent on different drugs. It's a social problem we really have to take seriously. This applies not only to individuals, but also to everything around. I myself have been the head of the board and worked in a drug collective for many years. Young people, both boys and girls, can become addicted at an early stage of life, with all the problems it brings, both family and social, for schooling, crime, etc. Medically assisted rehabilitation is important for those who have come very far in their abuse and who do not get out of it. How are they to be helped in life so that they become drug-independent at the same time in the long term? I think that fundamental questions about private, non-profit or public institutions become a derailment of the debate. Today is 60 pst. private and non-profit institutions serving households. These are organisations that do a very good job. They've been doing that for decades after decades, with an idealistic background and good competence. At the same time, it's not always just about the number of places. It's very much about the quality of the places. Every year, we have asked for what type of treatment works best, not what treatment is best for the public, but which works best for those who need it. What can help young girls and boys get out of drug addiction? Let us not, then, hold the debate on fundamental views of public and private institutions. The size has, with the background of the government, after all, added 360 million to this budget. kr. We have done that because we want to strengthen the drug response. Integrating drug addicts back into society, either to school, to family, to friends or to work, is not something that can be decided upon. What attitudes we have toward those who get out of the way are something that each individual has to work with. The best thing we can do is to help give them good quality, both in school and in work, and not least in treatment institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e581	Only to the representative of Sonja Sjøli: The representative of Sjøli knows very well that I am not seafaring, just as little as Dagfinn Højbrätten and Ansgar Gabrielsen can go in and assess each institution. What's our problem is to follow what Storting says. We have to make sure that we provide the best possible help and that the offer is of good quality. I believe that the representative Asphjell has an important point in saying that this is about something more than the treatment itself, which is maritimely very important, but in the treatment it is not least the return to active life and working life is crucial. Then I would like more companies to do like Stormberg. They turn their application benches and say that 25 pst. - want to start on something less, but it's at least a goal-- or x the number of percent of our workstock should be people who have worn out differently, either with drug problems, mental disorders or what it is. I've met many of those people who are doing excellent jobs today. They have been helped to get back to a life, have been shown trust. It is a company with very little sick leave, and that produces -- as far as I understand -- solid things, and translates for approx. One hundred million. kr per year. I hope that more companies can think like Stormberg, because that means a lot in terms of success in coming back after you have had problems of different kinds over many years. I'm not going to try to lengthen the debate, but I notice that the commitment everyone in this room has to do the situation for those who are struggling, even better. I also notice that it seems like the Right in this debate, as in hospital debates, is most concerned with treating -- and it's seamly very important -- and it's not quite so busy discussing how we can prevent people from getting sick, how we can prevent people from getting into problems with drugs. It's all connected, and that's why, as we see it, you have to be busy with both.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e590	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e593	It's obviously so that one word takes the other. Of course, the last debate that the Council of State put forward is impossible to lead to the tame of such a debate as this. Let me just remind you that all the downsizing of places in this field is funny enough to hit private institutions -- without exception -- while what is built up in public, regularly is three or four times as expensive. That means you get the third or just the fourth so much left for the money. And that's a cross of thought-- for the users at least. When I used the term "rir principles", it's no more strange than to show that it's actually in the Soria Moria statement. Thus, it must probably be a principle that this government wants to reduce the use of private operators in general in the health field, and then it is natural that the RHFs perceive that this sector is also involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e600	I notice that the representative is reading the Soria Moria statement that some people are reading the Bible. That means he doesn't refer to everything that's written there, because it actually says it's very clear that we're very much in favour of private ideal measures in the area of drug care and in other areas. We have also said that private commercial measures are a good complement, sail if we believe that public capacity should be exploited first, before commercial ones. So it's not right when the representative here is trying to create a picture that this government will not be investing and cooperating with private NPISHs in this care. We spend more money buying offers from private companies this year than we have done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e607	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3612]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e622	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e633	This is a very special case. To this extent, one can understand that some media have become accustomed to using the ‘special class hotel’ label each time they discuss the matter. I will first briefly mention what there is unanimity in the committee in the position on the matter. Firstly, in the open hearings on this matter, we were presented with a problem with regard to the use of the name and the term Radium Hospital. It's both, because the Radium Hospital is, for most of the Nordics, a concept in addition to being a proper name. It was pointed out that the administrative reorganisations that have taken place have led to the fact that this name has somehow fallen below the table and is about to disappear. A unanimous committee asks the Council of State to ensure that the brand name Radium Hospital is not lost. Let me also point out in general that there is no reason to let such issues be managed by mergers or by the way you choose to organise health businesses. You are perfectly free to continue the names you want to continue. The other point on which the Committee agrees is the conclusion itself: ‘The Committee notes that the intention of the representative proposal 107 seems to have been well on the way through the Government’s action since 30 April 2008 and recommends that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.’ [[2007-2008]] There's no consensus in the committee. The reference to the date of 30 April 2008 aims at the remarkable fact that this proposal was made in a rather urgent manner, to which the Presidency agreed. It was referred to in Stortinget and sent to the committee the same day that the proposal was delivered to Stortinget. On the same day, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health in Stortinget’s Question Time were categorically refused to do so, namely to intervene in relation to the decision by Health South-East at that time, to stop the construction project and to dismantle what had already been made, thus depreciating the tens of millions of dollars that had already been spent on the planning of the project. A week later, the government had turned around, and it is affordable. It's no shame to turn around. Maybe it's better to use the mountain sweat rule than the one you used on April 30, that's to bury yourself in time. The committee has tried to figure out what it is that has led to the happy result, and a while on the way, we've found the answer -- it's also written down in the setting -- but just a little bit on the way. What remains unclear is what the content of the cooperation between the Cancer Association and the health business is all about. Nor was the Cancer Association able to give any answer during the hearing. They pointed out that it should come back to 19 June, after they have managed this. It is pointed out by the opposition that the presentation of this cooperation has described a project that is different and has a completely different profile from that of the medical hotel project. Therefore, we have found it necessary to stress that you have to be careful so that you do not get hurt here in the good cause to double an offer that already exists, which is what the Radium Hospital has built up at the Mesnal. The other thing that is unclear is what you have done with all the ten offers that you invited to and that you received. It appeared during the hearing that the operators have not heard a faucet after they submitted their offers. No justification has been given for the refusal of offers that would have led to the failure to charge public budgets, as is now being done, with the effect that the division of health regions is becoming even more striking. It is not clear why such offers have been rejected, nor is it clear why cooperation with the Cancer Association alone has been put into practice - what is the reason for this, or what this cooperation will mean in substance. That is why I hope that the Council of State in its intervention in the debate may now be able to respond to some of the things that were not answered in the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e662	I would like to start by saying that I think there is a broad consensus that the idea of building a medical hotel at the Radium Hospital is good. Taking advantage of a private hospital hospital hotel is good financial management in the sense that the option is to rent more expensive rooms elsewhere, at the city hotels. However, the most important thing is that for patients who come from a long way to receive daily treatment and who in many cases are undergoing a tough treatment, such as the use of drugs and alcohol. cell marriage, the possibility of staying overnight and having a separate hotel room near the hospital will undoubtedly be a good one. During the hearings, someone characterized such a room as an oasis where you can get time for yourself in a different environment than in the hospital itself. I agree with the rapporteur that this is a very special matter. As the government parties have highlighted in the comments, the reason for the issue of hospital hotels has become so problematic that the board of the Rikshospitalet HF found that there had been serious breaches of the legislation in connection with the launch of the project. Therefore, the construction work had to be discontinued pending further clarifications. It is essential for the budgetary management of undertakings that breaches of the investment rules are not tolerated. This must be clearly marked. At the same time, in such a special case as this, it was important to find a solution where the construction project was completed, so that society's funds could be used as well as possible, not only in relation to the hospital, but also in relation to the overall priorities that Health South-East has done in terms of investment. I would therefore like to commend the Council of State for the solution that has been chosen and for having it quickly put in place. In the Workers' Party, we also think it is positive that several private people committed themselves to getting the medical hotel realised, and the operation of the hotel will later be outsourced to private people. This is an example of some kind of interaction between the public and the private that we think is good. It is also very good that the Cancer Association has committed itself to making the new medical hotel as good as possible. As I have already seen, many of the patients who are going to use the new medical hotel will be in a difficult situation. Equal work and the proximity to the offers the Cancer Association can provide could be important for many of these patients. As the Advocate General pointed out, the Committee also referred to the concept of the 'Radium Hospital', which is a well-known concept internationally. The Radium Hospital is the largest cancer centre in northern Europe, and we're going to be proud of the professional environments at that hospital. As explained, during the hearing, there was a strong desire for the concept of ‘Radium Hospital’ to be continued and the Committee asked for its follow-up. Finally, I would just like to say that I am pleased that the Committee has come to a unanimous vote, and that the Government has now reached a solution that seems to be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e679	This case needs to be referred to as the very example of how poorly something can be handled in the initial phase. The matter came out very crooked, but fortunately, pressure and recording both from the outside and inside of this house and what the Council of State has finally come along with has made it possible for us to have a solution that is both to live with and not least that the offer at the Radium Hospital could be better. The representative proposal from the representative Siv Jensen and myself was made on Wednesday 30 April. On the same day, Jens Stoltenberg stated the following in the questionnaire: ‘If the Councils of State are to enter into individual decisions of the order of 30 to 40 million. kr, the system is broken. Then we've broken the system that gives us more health, both because we donate more money than we've done before, and because we spend the money better." The Prime Minister further stated that: ‘I as Prime Minister will not go into the kind of individual decisions. I'm not in principle against private driving it, but for me as Prime Minister, it's very important to get economic control of hospitals, that we respect the system that's going to create governance. If we intervene in these types of individual decisions, we will destroy that system." Then I must also be allowed to quote State Council Sylvia Brustad from the same question hour: ‘I would also like to remind you that Health South-East is in the process of implementing a conversion programme in line with the mission of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Health South-East has underlined the importance of ensuring a good exploitation of the overall capacity of health businesses in the group. It is therefore not desirable to bind investment funds in the patient hotel until one has come further into overall planning.» This is a quote from Stortinget's Question Time on 30 April, the same day as this proposal was promoted. The background to the proposal was that the Council of State Brustad, together with the Chairman of the Board of Health South-East, Hanne Harlem, was in the Editorial Committee for a week in advance. It was said that demolition of the scaffolding at the Radium Hospital would not be stopped, nor would the demolition of the rack. It would go as planned. Fortunately, this was not the case, but we are left with a number of questions, which could be answered in connection with the work of the Control Committee, which is now in the process of doing so. I'm not going into that work. That's the other thing to do, and I'm not going to interfere with it. But I have to be allowed to make a few comments related to what has happened. It is strange that after health south-east and not least the board of the Radium Hospital had spent months working on this matter, any private providers get 36 hours to promote an offer of perhaps 140, 150, 160 million. And so in retrospect they haven't heard a hoove about how this has gone. Why aren't these called in to a meeting with the Council of State? I think there were a lot of people in the health and care committee who had a lot of questions related to the hearing that the committee had. Because in the media, we were told that the agreement with the Cancer Association on the construction of this centre was ‘done deal’ - it was in place. So the Cancer Association says, "No, how this is going to be, we're going to decide on June 19th." In conclusion, I expect and hope now that the Council of State will ensure that the follow-up of the name Radium Hospital is now really done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e708	In every health matter, as politicians, we must raise patients. The case also concerns the patient hotel at the Radium Hospital. There's hardly anyone who can understand the logic of adding 30 to 40 million. kr lost, money that can go to construction that benefits cancer patients. For the vast majority of people, this is a lot of money, and I think the message that no one is going to get along, is still being reached. Everyone must comply with the law, including in health businesses. However, when said, there are still unresolved questions on this issue, which are now also being considered in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. On a written question dated 18 April this year, I asked the Council of State what assessments of accommodation capacity and patient basis were the basis for the decision not to complete the patient hotel. In the response of the Council of State, it was noted that health South-East has established criteria for the evaluation and prioritisation of investment matters. These criteria included patient base, capacity needs and capacity utilisation. In the press release from Health South-East following the decision to stop the construction of the patient hotel, it was shown that there was a general overcapacity on beds in the capital area. And a central question is, is it that there is overcapacity per person? today, or is this an assessment related to future capacity, which is again based on changes in the use of hospitals? I want to stay a little bit with this, because it's important. In the ongoing capital process, basic material from SINTEF Health is used on what the bed requirement in the area will be in the years to come. There are several instances of fault in this material, and it would be very regrettable if there were too low a number of beds planned. This could contribute to the pressure of shorter bedtime and an increase in the number of Corridor Asians, which would be detrimental to quality. It will also have an impact on the role and functioning of local hospitals. The SINTEF report on the basis of the capacity assessments in Health South-East provides for shorter periods of sleep. Some of the suggestions for reducing bedtime are relatively drastic. This can lead to pressure, especially on sick elderly people. If the journey becomes longer, it may be burdensome for older people to travel back and forth, for example: on the same day they receive hospital treatment, and not all live with someone who can observe them at home after treatment. At the same time, cuts in bedtime require substantial upgrading in the number of hospitalised areas, especially short-term areas, which is already lacking today. We know that there is a need for approx. 20000 places in municipalities until 2015, while the Government is adding only 12,000 new health homes. The question is whether this figure is based on the fact that it is put up for a severe cut in hospital bedtime, not only in Health South-East, but perhaps in the country. I think there is a need to clarify this, because not least older people have more complex needs than younger patients in hospitals. So my question at the bottom of this post is what the actual capacity needs are in Health South-East, which is now in the situation they are in, in terms of internal hospitalization, but not least in terms of patient hotels. And does the content of a new patient hotel, as we know little about today, relate to the plans for reduction in bedtime?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e723	Let me first remind you that regional health companies have a comprehensive responsibility both for investment and for operations in their own region. Included in this responsibility are the Boards of Directors which have the authority to launch the necessary investments. For example, in Health South-East there is a need for approx. DKK 19 billion. That's the way it is in the country too - whether it's not that much money, it's at least wants and needs in the many-billion-dollar class. I will initially refer to the post I had at the hearing on 20 May. Despite the history of this case with the start of construction without approval or funding, I am pleased that we found a solution for the country's cancer patients. The fact that the Rikshospitalet HF initiated the construction project, contrary to known and granted powers - among other things. the state could face a loss of several tens of millions of dollars - created a very difficult situation. It was the responsibility of Health South-East to assess what would be the best follow-up of the case. The Board of Health South-East was treated as a known case of future investments in the region at its meeting on 17 April and, on the basis of an overall assessment, did not prioritise the hospital in the Rikshospitalet. Health South-East has now decided to have an external and independent review of the case. I think that's wise. So what's changed? I hear more people are talking about April 30th. Well, after this, there were recordings, among other things. from the Cancer Association, and dialogue was initiated between the Cancer Association and Health South-East. It opened up the possibility of making the project something more than a purely overnight offer, which also ensures flexibility and good integration towards the rest of the hospital. This was also the basis for the Health South-East assessments leading up to the Ministry's call on 8 May this year for increased loan frameworks. Overall, the Ministry found it appropriate in the difficult situation it was, to contribute to resolving the matter through the proposal for a loan which is now being dealt with here in the Stortinget. At the Enterprise Meeting on 21 May, the National Hospital of HF has been responsible for the further follow-up and realisation. This also applies to cooperation with the Cancer Association. Based on the attention of private actors, the Rikshospitalet HF invited them to make recordings of the solution in order to complete the construction project. It would have been possible, but demanding. The rules for this - which were adopted under the previous government - are strict. The regulatory framework shall ensure that the overall level of investment in health undertakings is monitored. Feedback to the 10 private stakeholders was given in a letter dated 22 May 2008 from the director of the Rikshospitalet HF. I note that parts of the Committee have expressed concern that the forthcoming offer will be at the expense of the offer made by Montebello-Centeret in Mesnalia. I believe that these two offers have different purposes that could complement each other and are not in competition with each other. Annually, about 25 000 people are affected by cancer, and unfortunately, this incidence is increasing. In order to ensure patients and their related qualitative treatment and rehabilitation processes, different services are needed. The Montebello Centre is known as a separate foundation and a nationwide rehabilitation centre for cancer patients and their relatives. The Centre has a technical cooperation agreement with the Rikshospitalet, and also has a close cooperation with the Kreftforeningen. They offer courses for those who have or have had cancer, and their relatives, in addition to their own courses for professionals. The Montebello Centre has a network of professionals spread across the country, who are hired to complete the various courses. The project, as currently outlined by Health South-East in cooperation with the Cancer Association, involves the development of an offer creating an arena for rehabilitating, learning and mastering, peer-to-peer work, etc. This offer shall be traditionally patient-focused and integrated with other treatments at the Radium Hospital. The offer shall include both patients who are in hospital for treatment and those who spend the night at the hospital. This offer will complement and not conflict with the course activities of the Montebello Centre. I think it would also be natural to draw on the competence of the Montebello-Center in the further design. When it comes to the name question, I've been searingly aware of the committee's comment. I have already been in contact with Health South-East and will come back with a solution to this matter in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e746	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e749	I want to grasp what the Council of State was about to finalize, precisely the use of the term ‘Radium Hospital’ as a brand name. For now, years after year, we have spent creating an environment right at the Radium Hospital. This is known both in Norway and internationally, with large-scale cooperation projects in particular. related to the centre in the United States and in other countries, and the Norwegian Radium Hospital is known to be a quality very good offer, with well-qualified staff and good hospital research. The council says she will come back to it in the near future. Can the Council of State say a little more? For the Storting, which is behind this -- it's a unanimous comitology -- it's a little important just to know how to tackle this. The term is out of the health company name, it has disappeared from letter logos and other things, and therefore we ask the question: what can we specifically expect in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e754	I can join the Nesvik statement about both the importance of the Radium Hospital and the incredibly good competence that is there, and also the brand name Radium Hospital - there is no doubt about it. No, what I can say is what I said in the post, and that's that I hear a lot both of what the Storting says, and see what's written. I have already had a meeting with Health South-East about the name, and we aim to find a solution in this matter in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e761	I noticed that the Council of State used the expression that there was a ‘recording’, among other things. from the Cancer Association’. It is publicly known that you were invited to make recordings, and got ten. But it was only the input from the Cancer Association that it was found worth conducting a dialogue, and it is until this day that it is not clear what the offer is about, at least the committee has not come to know it. That's why in the setting we have requested the reason why we have chosen to bet on this particular input to the displacement of the others. At least one of the other offers - it is also publicly known - would have meant that the entire investment risk had been borne by private individuals, and that no requirement had been made for the health care company to conclude any purchase agreement for a certain number of places once, i.e. there had been no conflict with any legislation at all, but the public investment framework had not been charged with 110 million. kr. Why did you say no to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e767	Now, as the representative knows very well, it is not I who have had neither negotiations with nor talked with the private, nor had the direct dialogue, except for a meeting with the Cancer Association, as far as I remember, with Health South-East. Those are the ones who have made that assessment. The private actors reported their interest, they got to make their recordings and have a meeting. They have received an answer to that enquiry. What I related to as an owner was that Health South-East came to me with an arrangement that was slightly more than an overnight offer. They had a cooperation with the Cancer Association, and the fact that this was something more, that we were in such a very demanding situation as we were, where we were facing, among other things. One loss in the amount of $10 million, led the government to propose an increase in the loan allocation, because that means that we can get an even wider offer for patients. This is going to be realized if the Storting joins it, either with the Cancer Association or without it. But it'll be even better if they're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e772	We must be able to say that there has been a lot of root and bad craftsmanship here from both the board and the administration of these various health services, and when the Prime Minister got on the road here on 30 April, it didn't get much better, I would say. No one can be proud of what happened. But one thing I noticed that the Prime Minister said on April 30 was the following: ‘If the Councils of State are to enter into individual decisions of the order of 30 to 40 million. kr, the system is broken. Then we've broken the system that gives us more health» etc. The system he's talking about is health care reform. My question is, is it now finally settled that the system has been playing failed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e784	No, the system has not played down. But I want to say that this was a quite impossible matter, and I am a little surprised that there are no more people who also talk a lot about what was the unfortunate history of this case, namely that someone started a project without permission and powers. That is what put us all in a very difficult and very demanding situation. So to what was said both by the Prime Minister and me on April 30. Yes, we are confident of that, but what happened after that was that Health South-East came to us and presented a completely new concept, which was something much more than an overnight offer. That's how this system is, that they come to us, presents it, and they asked for extended loan frameworks. Then we evaluated it this way, based on the situation that arose, with all the elements that lie within it, also literally, that it was right to suggest to the Stortinget to extend the loan framework in order to put this in place for cancer patients. So I hope we never ever get into a similar situation, because that's not how we're going to have it in health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e791	At the hearing on this matter, the Cancer Association became, among other things, asked what they wanted the new hotel to contain, and we received very little response. When the Council of State today says that it will be different from Mesnalia, which several of us are uncertain about coming into conflict with the new patient hotel, is my question: Can the Council of State say what it is that makes her absolutely sure that there are big differences here? And in that case, what's the difference between Mesnalia and the offer we're going to get at the new hospital? Because now it's time, and I guess the department may have worked a little bit more on it after the hearing we had.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e796	It is Health South-East and the Rikshospitalet HF and their government that are now working further with the Cancer Association to realise the content of the offer to be made at the Radium Hospital, which is something more than an overnight offer. When I believe that this is not in competition with Montebello/Mesnalia, which is otherwise a very good offer, it is among other things. unfortunately, the incidence of cancer is increasing every year. This means that even more people will need different offers, and I feel that the offer to be given, sail if one is not completely finished with all the content there, will not be in competition with Mesnalia. We just need both parts, and we'll do that in several places in the country, because of the many people who are affected by cancer and their relatives. So I'm not worried about it, we need both, and there are many who need that kind of service, different kind of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e801	I understand, of course, that both the Prime Minister and the Council of State have felt this as a relatively difficult matter, but it must now be, and we will see what the story will bring. My question to the Council of State is a further follow-up of the representative that Davøy raised. This is very important, because the new setup at the Radium Hospital is a completely different project from the one it was originally produced as. In the hearing in the Committee on this matter, the impression was that this would be about the same offer that was there. And when I said, "You almost got the impression," it was of course because the undersigned was one of those who asked questions, and who got the impression of it. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State, as a business meeting, take an initiative towards Health South-East and ensure a dialogue between the board of directors of the Montebello-Center in Mesnalia and the board of the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital, ensuring that this is not a competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e810	To the last point: I would like to make it clear in my dialogue with Health South-East that what I have now said in this Chamber is being followed up. It's in the nature of the matter. As to what this offer of the Radium Hospital will be, it is clear that there will be much more than an overnight offer. It will be prevention, rehabilitation, learning and mastering, and it can be relief - integrated into the supply provided elsewhere. As regards the Cancer Association and their answer in the case, they have to speak for themselves. What I'm dealing with is that they've expressed their desire to cooperate on this. That's the dialogue the Rikshospital now has with them, and I think it's very good if they want to be part of it. But if they were to decide on the 19th of June -- which we're supposed to hope not, because we want them with -- not to be involved, with their competence, this is going to be realized in any case for the benefit of cancer patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e819	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e824	The majority of the Committee’s votes were as follows: ‘The majority of the Committee would point out that there would have been an advantage if there had been a justification for the funding and cooperation model chosen.’ After the posts of the Council of State in the hall today, I still ask for that reason. Because that state council just said in the line change, the fact was that the reason that one turned around in the course of a week and agreed to something that, according to the Prime Minister on 30 April, would undermine the entire system of the Norwegian health care system was that another project was presented. It is alarming because this medical hotel project has been in progress for six years in the health enterprise’s decision-making system, and no one has asked questions about the project as such. What has been asked about was the funding, i.e. whether Health South-East was willing to give priority to this and allow it to be built. And then, in a few hours, you're willing to get up by 110 million. kr for a completely different project - on the grounds that there is a different project than the one you have spent six-seven years planning. When the Committee at the open hearing asked what the project was all about, it was completely impossible to get an answer. The Cancer Association said that they had absolutely no clear answer to what their role was, and what the project was going to be about. This could be achieved on 19 June, after the board of directors. You must then be allowed to ask for quality assurance of the decision-making basis. What the Council of State says in today's debate, the Committee of Inquiry needs to be very much interested when they are going to keep trying to get to the bottom of what kind of decision-making this has actually been, and who it is who has talked to to get to the solutions that you will finally come out with. I also hope that in that process you will be able to get an answer as to what was the reason why the former director of the health care company found it necessary to protest against him being overrun by a superior body. It is well and good that external assessments are implemented - I have nothing against doing so - but this is a matter for Stortinget. And I hope that the control committee will not give up until it comes to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e840	I do not think that has been said very much here today than what I said in the hearing, and which I have also replied in writing to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. I'm going to answer all the questions that the members there or other big business representatives had to have on this matter at all times. I am a little surprised at the Right Drive, especially considering the statements both from the representative Wage and others in this case at an earlier stage. It could have been interesting to get a review of it. It is important to say that the governance model we have implies that it is at all times the regional health undertaking that is responsible for its investments and that is making its priorities. And when we answered in the Questionnaire on 30 April, it was based on the decision taken on 17 April. Then it was possible in retrospect. They came to us with a concept that was something other than a accommodation offer, that was something more. That was a very demanding situation. And that was in the special situation they asked for an increase in their loan frameworks in order to carry out the construction and thus avoid realising a significant loss. I believe that no matter what one to the seventh and the last had done in this case, it would have been wrong for someone. I have understood that there were many, both in this room and outside, who said quite clearly that it would not be understood if you tore the scaffolding and left what was lying around on storage sites in Steinkjer, on Flisa and elsewhere, be left untouched. Then I also heard a lot of people who said, "You have to get this medical hotel, or what it has to be, up." When it comes up, a storm rises from many other places in the country that says that when one gets it in Oslo, yes, then one has to get it to other places in the country as well. And then this is going to be competition with the Montebello Center. I think that regardless of what had come to the conclusion in this case, it seems that there are many enough people trying to make a lot of it. But I hope, as I said, that we never get into such a situation. I just wanted to see the owner of the hotel who planned to build hotels in Alta and on the Feners, and then someone found out that we were going to have one in Trysil - without one having prior authority and approval for it. That's what we're really talking about here, and then the focus is: who is the pianist, and who are the others? That's very interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e853	There were references to some mountain-wet rules here in the beginning of the debate: art is digging itself down. But it's also an important mountain sweat rule to say from where to go. From the debate here, it is at least difficult to see how many people want to go. Who is responsible - has asked the Left and Christian People's Party in their posts. This applies to both the Director, the Management Board and those responsible in Health South-East and who put this into effect without having the necessary powers. That's where it is. As the debate progressed, everyone pointed out that we now had to find a solution, and that the government had to act as soon as possible to ensure that this hospital is built, because there is a great need for it. Now the government acted very quickly, I must say. When one hears the debate here, they may have acted too quickly, because the private has not received enough time for their tenders, has not received a response to their tenders, and because new agreements have now been concluded with a private non-profit organisation, etc. Then it's also wrong. When this refers to the fact that both professionalism and quality, availability and capacity are improved through what has been negotiated, it is also wrong. What does one want in relation to this? I would say that this result has come, not because of the opposition, but despite the opposition. Here the Government has taken responsibility and entered into a dialogue. When it is pointed out that this comes into competition with Montebello/Mesnalia, yes, then suddenly competition is a problem. Some people call on public authorities to need private players to gain greater competition, but once there has been an expanded offer, competition has to be cleared up through negotiations and meetings, and that is a strange way to do so. It was about this with funding. The representative's salary indicated that if it was private who took full responsibility, the Rikshospitalet did not have any responsibility for the costs associated with the places. I thought we were going to build this hospital to fill these beds with patients who were admitted to the Rikshospitale and Radium Hospital, and that you should not look elsewhere. Here we also talk about the Chairman of the Board being overrun and went for that reason. The entire opposition shouted that the government had to intervene. And when the government intervenes and the director goes, some people feel that they are suddenly overrun in this matter. It was said by the representative Wohnning that this has taken six-seven years. As far as I can see from the case papers, the first idea was sown in 2003 - and that was five years ago. Despite that, they have not been able to make the necessary decisions. It starts without it. I think the Council of State and the Government have handled this in a good way, despite the fact that the matter has been handled poorly by Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e871	The representative, Asphjell, referred to the negotiated solution. The problem for the rest of us in the room is that we do not know anything that has been negotiated, and to explicit questions no one has been able to answer what is negotiated. The reason for this is simply that the negotiations have not been completed. Therefore, there is no basis for comparison at all. I agree with the Council of State on one point. This is very interesting, she said. Yeah, that's really very interesting. But I need to get the Council of State's confirmation of the question I've asked a few times. I'm going to put it from the other side: Is the Council of State stressing that there is a whole new and different project The Government has agreed to than what had been on the bill for five-six years, so to understand that if you hadn't come to call it another project, which no one has seen the content of, the Government would still have said no? At that time, the position of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health in the Question Time on 30 April would have been the same per year. today, and the riggings out at the Radium Hospital had been for the longest time torn. I am responding to that question with great interest, for if the answer was that they had then said no to realise the project and insisted that what was started would be torn down, yes, it would be really exciting to know how to buy a new project in a few hours and be willing to complete the public funding - a project that nobody knows the content of.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e880	It may be nice to hear the debate between Asphjell and Wage about whether it was five or six years ago the plan to build a hospital hotel first saw the light of day - but it's probably uninteresting whether it's five or six years ago. Then I must say that when the representative Asphjell here boasts of his own government and talks about how wonderfully they have dealt with this matter, I must remind you that the background for the whole debate is, in fact, a proposal from Harald T. Nesvik and Siv Jensen. That is why we have the debate here today. There is also a significant reason why the government turned around. But it's not just the Progress Party that should have boasted about it. This is also due to the other media pressure put on this case in Norway. We are pleased that there has been a solution to the matter. We are very pleased with that. However, it has to be understood that there are some questions about the procedure when there is so much to solve and float out there, when neither the health company nor the Cancer Association can come up with anything concrete at an open hearing, and when, as politicians, we will first get to grips with what is really in their plans, on 19 June. When we know at the same time that all the other people who were interested in implementing a similar type of construction project have not heard a hoove - as is said here - also members of the government parties must understand that some questions are being asked about this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e889	Let me first clarify a manifest misunderstanding: it is now said several times by several speakers from the opposition that the private providers have not received an answer. That's what they got. It is true that they had not received it during the hearing, but they have received it afterwards. Then I hear that the representative Fredriksen and others are trying to take credit for this being built - and that's right, that's right. I'm going to answer all the questions that had to come from the Control and Constitutional Committee and others. But I totally disagree when it is said here that one has no idea what this offer will contain, when, as the responsible State Council, I have said that it is going to be something more than a overnight offer, and also said something about what else it will contain for cancer patients and their relatives. I also believe that the health company has clearly said so. The Cancer Association has also said that they want something in that direction, but they will have some meetings to clarify this. I would like to stress so strongly that this offer, if the Storting joins our proposal, will see the light of day also whether the Cancer Association decides not to be included. So what was the new situation? Well, a concept was presented that was something other than just an overnight quote. But it was the fact that Health South-East came to us and asked for money, i.e. loan money, which was new. They wouldn't have done that before. When they came to us, it is clear that we were dealing with that matter, and on the basis of the reasons I have tried to explain, we found that we had to do that and contribute to it. So this was an extraordinary situation. I believe that what Health South-East has now decided is very wise. It's getting an external and independent review of this whole thing in order to learn from what's happened, and I think that's what's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e902	This should not be a debate about who has the credit for one or the other. I'm not going to go into that line. In my previous post, I just referred to what was said on Wednesday 30 April. Then we've seen what happened in retrospect, that, fortunately, you've turned the reel around-- and all the glory for it. As in the previous case, we also received a nice contribution from the representative Jorod Asphjell, who from his point of view summed up how he looked at this matter. I hope the representative of Asphjell just made a speech, and I hope that what he said, has not yet been written down - so that also it is cleared. The representative of Asphjell said, linked to the fact that the director of the Rikshospitalet and the Radium Hospital had to go, that when the government intervened and the director was kicked, yes, the opposition reacted to it as well. I hope the representative Asphjell spoke up. If not, at least it will be a matter for the control committee, and that will be interesting. So I hope it was a delay. The representative of Asphjell also said that this matter has been well concluded despite the opposition. I then recall what the Prime Minister and the Council of State, Brustad, said in Stortinget on 30 April, and not least what was said by the Governor, Hanne Harlem, Health South-East and the Council of State, Brustad, in the Editorial Department, ONE week before, that there was no reason to stop the demolition of the brackish rig and the stillness that was up there. It was supposed to go away. Luckily, to the delight of cancer patients, this case gets its solution, and we should be happy about that. But there's reason to ask questions about what this other -- so different -- project actually is. The representative's salary has pointed it out quite correctly in his speeches today, because there was nothing clear when the committee asked questions about this at the hearing. The Council of State clearly has information other than that of the Committee because it was informed that the final decision to that effect would be taken at the Governing Council meeting on 19 June. So the Council of State must then sit with information other than that which Stortinget has received in its hearing. What the criticism has been linked to is that, in the case of the other ten alternative offers, a hoove was not heard as long as the process was in progress. It is later a letter was received, and it was after a decision was made. That's what you've been criticizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e917	Now I think the representative, Nesvik, will say something freely from a certain TV debate. But what I want to say is that I have not had any contact with the director of the Rikshospitale in this matter. I have either had any condition with the manager's departure. And then the representative Asphjell manages very well to answer for himself the sea, but I found the need to emphasize it. Then it's as well-known meeting at the Cancer Association on June 19. It's their arena, not our arena. So we'll see what comes out of it. But I'm absolutely sure there's going to be a good offer at the Radium Hospital anyway, and I think that's actually the most important thing in this case -- for the cancer patients. Well, let's see about the privates. It is quite clear that it would have been possible if Health South-East had wanted it, to get a solution with private. But it would have been demanding, not least on the basis of the legislation that the previous government decided in relation to where you are allowed to borrow. It would then be a different arrangement than what is now on the table. It was in this situation that Health South-East thought that the scheme they've been going for, and asked the government to raise money for, is a better arrangement for the patients. It was also on the basis that the Government proposed to the Storting that loans be granted for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e926	There is no doubt that you have been busy getting a medical hotel where you are going to give important patient groups a good offer, but when that happens, you turn the debate away from it and over to what has happened along the way. There's no doubt about it. It points to the business model we have today, with regional health companies and local health companies that have a responsibility in relation to their investments and their operations. If the Council of State were to intervene in all individual decisions, in all cases - whether there are food supply or investment projects, etc. -had played this business model down. When the representative Wohnning pointed out that the director left, my reply was that the government had to intervene in the matter and get settled in the area of the medical hotel - and when the government intervened in the matter and resolved this, the director chose to resign. The board of directors did not engage in dialogue with the Council of State, but the board of directors felt that this was an overrun of management's powers, as I understood it. If I've made a mistake, I'm sorry. But I think this is what lies in the whole business model, that the Council of State should not intervene in individual matters as such, because then you lose control with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e933	The representative of Asphjell is probably right at one point, namely that he has got the wrong grip on this. Among other things, he has no control over chronology. For the director of the health company, he left his place of office long before the matter had come to that place, even before the director was appointed by the board of directors. The question that has not been answered is, Why did he find it necessary to do that? I have never imagined that it should be because the Council of State should have intervened and asked him to do so. On the other hand, there is a lot of evidence that the central people in Health South-East have exerted significant pressure. In this case, it illustrates a fundamental problem in the current model, namely that it is very easy to discharge liability by pushing a level up or down as it fits. The reason why I asked for the word once more as case rapporteur is that the Council of State did not answer my question as to whether it is such as to understand that it would have maintained its negative position if Health South-East had not come up with the idea of calling the project a whole new project, and present it in a rhetoric that says there is something else, but in which we have not yet been presented with any material content. I'm probably interpreting the silence of the Council of State at this point as a confirmation. Then you would not have realized the project at all. That's what I have characterized as an alarming observation, because then we have maintained a no to a project that had been planned for many years, and no one had had a single professional objection. The objection was solely about the lack of funding. Then in a few hours you can come up with a splitter new project and say that then it's okay to spend money on it. Then you have to plan it afterwards and figure out what the content is. It's very little reassuring. Then I must also be allowed to ask for an answer to my question, because at least one of the offers - the nine others are not all known to the public at all - was of such a nature that they did not conflict with the law that the Council of State always refers to the previous government introducing, because it did not result in any bonds, either on the investment side or on the operating side. Then you have to be allowed to ask the question: why do you refuse such an offer in favour of normal government funding for the same thing, perhaps with a slight twist that makes you call it something else than before? The net difference is 110 million. kr. I thought in today's situation that it had a certain interest in a health minister not being able to spend 110 million. from public funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e942	Mr T. Nesvik has spoken twice in the debate and has the floor for a brief comment of up to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e945	I just want to give the representative Jorod Asphjell an opportunity to give a correct presentation of what has happened or has not happened. As the control committee now has the matter under consideration, it is important to find out that things have happened in the order in which they have actually happened - not least that there is consistency between what has been said by the government parties from this pulpit and what the Council of State has said in response to questions. I challenge the representative of Asphjell as follows: The last representative of Asphjell had the word here, he said that the director of the Rikshospitalet-Radium hospital went off after the government had intervened in the matter. It is very important that we give an answer to this. The council said that this had not happened, while Asphjell said this had happened. I hope that the representative of Asphjell can confirm that the intervention took place before the chairman chose to resign.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e950	When the representative's salary tries to interpret, it's worth listening. What is the matter is that at the time I informed them that Health South-East came to the owner, who was us, and asked for loan money, so that they could realize the project they had. That's what we've been dealing with, and that's what we've been deciding about. When it comes to the question of the private ones, it's saying that there were none of the private ones who made up with any gift -- that is. that it was, I confess, none of the suggestions that lay on the table that were completely free of charge. Now it is the case that the sail of the representative Wohnning will not hear that it was the previous government that confirmed the legislation that made it demanding, but not impossible, for Health South-East to consider a scheme with private, that is what is right. Yes - it would probably have been possible to make arrangements with the private people by building, and that someone rented some places. But what was not possible - according to the legislation of the previous government confirmed - was that private buildings were built, and that one on a permanent basis rented all the rooms, for example. So there's a lot of other things also in the cool water of it. But this has been the health of the south-east. So they've presented a different scheme, and that's what they came to us to get loan money. It was also when there was a matter on my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e967	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e970	First, I have to say that whether it's the public or the private that spends 110 million. kr for expansion is the cost of purchasing the material places. Those costs I think will be the same anyway. But here it seems like it's the principle that it's the private people who are going to build rather than the public that's stressed. To the representative Harald T. Nesvik, I must say that it is enough what he said about chronology and as confirmed by the Council of State from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e977	I think the council moved dangerously near the border to mislead the Storting when she once again referred to the legislation established by the previous government. During the open committee hearing, it was expressly confirmed by one private provider who met for consultation that the offer they had made did not provide any guarantees on the investment side of the country. It would not involve any purchase obligation, in any order of magnitude, on a permanent basis on the part of the health business. Then it is relatively late that the Council of State is trying to present it as if it were the legislation that prevented such an offer from being accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e984	I haven't fooled the Storting. I have said several times now, both in the hearing and today, that it would have been possible if Health South-East had wanted it, to get to an arrangement with private people. But it would have been demanding. Then I understand that the representative will not hear about why it had been demanding. But under the government in the right, it was so that loans in the private market were not allowed. And financial leasing is looking at it like that. I have never said anything but that it would have been possible - seagoing within the demanding legislation - to find a solution with the private, but Health South-East would not. They presented another concept, and that's what we've been dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e991	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on substance. 2 is over. [[See page 3613]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e999	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e1007	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gunn Olsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Gunvald Ludvigsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left Proposals No. 4 and 5, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 6, from Gunvald Ludwigsen on behalf of the Left There will be a vote on the motions for resolutions first. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to remove the age requirement in order to be eligible for medically assisted rehabilitation [[LAR]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider introducing a separate authorisation system for drug treatment institutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e1044	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 6 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to lower the age limit for participation in the LAR to 20 years, but participation should still be assessed individually.’ The Progress Party has announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e1061	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the application of LAR treatment by decision-makers for their patients.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate a pilot project in which decision-makers with special competence and interest in Ruspacents may be given the opportunity to award appropriate medical treatment free of charge: [[equivalent to subutex, subuxone or similar]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e1110	The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have made the following proposals: ‘Document No. 8:75 [[2007-2008]] An alternative will be to vote between the Committee's position and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-09.ana.ud1157e1161	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
