ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e44	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Stingen meetings in December – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Per Rune Henriksen. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Rune Henriksen is unanimously elected president of this month’s meetings in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e60	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from the Minister of Finance and the main speakers from each party group and up to three lines with replies from other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e71	As far as I can judge, this is a little bit historical, because this is the last time we're dealing with Innst. O. No 1, the tax and tax arrangements. Next year, the Biggest will deal with this. However, it will also be dealt with in 2010 with tax arrangements, possibly with other people in the hall. The broad lines of fiscal policy are clear. This means that the Government continues to use fiscal policy as an important tool to meet our objectives of fairer distribution. When we came to power in 2005, we canceled the fiscal policy and brought the tax rate back to the 2004 level. It has given us billions of dollars for more well-being and community. At the same time, we have taken important steps to make the tax system fairer. Government Party Setting Int. O. No 1 will further contribute to this. At the same time, we focus on a predictable and stable tax system in general, which means that the changes are neither big nor dramatic. However, some claim the opposite, connecting it to the financial crisis. In order to quote Chief Economist of Nordea, Steinar Juel, at the Business Federation meeting last Friday, the change in the tax regime has no significance in relation to the financial crisis. Because we're not going in to increase taxes. The level of taxation remains unchanged and, overall, does not have a narrowing effect or has an expansive effect on the Norwegian economy. We distribute the tax burden more fairly. The scorpions of the richest are matched by relief for the vast majority. That means changes, of course, and some will get increased taxes. We've never hidden that. But that these changes, which are between 3 and 4 billion dollars, are going to have such a decisive impact on a scheme that gives $113 billion in revenue, are simply hard to understand. An important change is that the 80 pst rule is removed. This is because we want the richest people in Norway, who have a lot of wealth and little income, to contribute to the community as others in this country do. This rule has limited the tax for the most wealthy. The rule says that one should not pay more than 80 pst. of tax revenue if net worth does not exceed 1 million. kr. If you have a wealth greater than 1 million. kr, you have to pay a lower rate, i.e. 0.8 pst. Others, which do not fall under the 80 percent rule, pay 1.1 pst. in taxes on wealth. In 2006, the overall reductions in taxes resulting from the 80 % rule amounted to a total of 830 million. kr. Half of this amount came from the 100 most wealthy in the country. Therefore, this change contributes to a significantly better policy of distribution. So to the property tax: the main change we're making is to increase the bottom deduction from NOK 350,000 to NOK 470,000. In addition, we remove the lowest rate to pay 1.1 pst for all assets in addition to 470,000. in taxes on wealth. This provides, in isolation, unchanged or lower taxes on wealth at all levels. But then we do other steps that increase the wealth tax for certain groups. A problem with the taxes on wealth is that it values different assets differently. Thus, the tax rate will affect where you choose to invest, and not just the possibility of winning through returns. The removal of the stock discount, the increase in the values of the housing equation and the changes in the values of the business property equation will reduce the differences in different property items. Equation values for dwelling and leisure property are proposed to be increased by 10 pst. in order to re-establish a lack of re-adjustment in a period of sharp price rise. The equation values of the dwelling still represent an average of only 21 psts. by the market value and by all owners of dwellings are protected by a maximum limit which means that the equation values shall not exceed 30 pst. of market value – this despite the debt being deducted from crowns. So the debt is valued at 100 pst, while the housing value can never be valued at more than 30 pst. Despite this, the valuation of the dwelling is still very low and unfortunately arbitrary. On average, it's about 21 pst. The equation values of commercial real estate are currently very low and represent on average only 25 pst. of market values. Many have equation values that are even lower than this. The low and crooked valuation of commercial property camouflages high real estate. That's why we want a more accurate valuation method for commercial property, which is based more on real values. A new, simplified valuation is proposed based on the capitalised rental value of commercial property rented out. Set the new equation value to 40 pst. by the capitalised rental value. Non-renting business assets are increased by 60 pst. in 2009. At the same time, the safety valve is reduced to ensure that no property gets an equation value higher than 60 pst. the market value. It provides real lower taxes on wealth for new buildings, which in turn will help to maintain construction activity. The aim is also to present proposals in the 2010 budget for a new template method for the valuation of non-renting properties. In recent years there has been an overinvestment in industrial buildings, and this results, inter alia, from particularly favourable tax rules. By changing these rules, we will dampen the economic fluctuations in the future. Even fewer pay taxes on wealth in Norway. Also this year, as mentioned earlier, the deduction is increased to NOK 470 000 and to double that for married couples. As a result, since 2005, the bottomline has tripled for single and fivefold for married couples. Only in 2009 will 110 000 fewer people pay taxes on wealth because the bottom line has increased. Overall, since the government change in 2005, almost 400,000 people in Norway have been exempt from property taxes. Many myths are spread about property taxes, including: that it hits retired people hard. To the extent that poor pensioners have been affected, the bulk of the population has done something about it. Increasing the asset tax base to NOK 470,000 means that a married couple, who thus receive two deductions without any other wealth, must both be indebted and own a house of more than SEK 3 million. kr to enter the property tax position. And then we have assumed that the dwelling is valued at the maximum limit of 30 pst. The typical thing is that dwellings are valued at far less. 30 pst. taxes on wealth paid by the population in 2005, there will be 20 pst in 2009. who pays this tax. Among those still paying taxes on wealth, the level of taxes on wealth will fall in 2009. This is true of 680,000 people, while it is being increased for about 200,000 people with evenly above large assets. A little bit about inheritance fees. We have known for a long time that there has been a tax gap in the inheritance tax that has been used by the richest in particular. Now let's do something about this. We are in favour of facilitating the rates and increasing the rebates, and we are changing the rules for unlisted companies. With the grips made, the net inheritance tax relief is NOK 1.4 billion. By comparison, the inheritance tax amounted to approximately NOK 2.6 billion in 2007. The total effects of the inheritance tax conversion mean that between 90 pst. and 95 pst. by all taxable persons, the inheritance tax is lower than the current rules, while a small, wealthy minority receives a higher inheritance tax. In today's inheritance tax, shares in unlisted limited liability companies are valued at 30 p.m. of market value. This discount on 70 pst. makes it easy for owners of such companies to pay the inheritance tax. For reasons of generational shifts in smaller family businesses, the Government has not proposed to remove the entire stock discount. A reduced stock discount of 40 pst is retained. for shares worth less than 10 million. kr, per cent the beneficiary of the inheritance tax. While housing and leisure property in current rules are to be valued at market value, the value of commercial property owned by unlisted limited liability companies is valued in the same way as with the property tax. Therefore, the changes made to the property tax, by introducing a fairer system of valuation of commercial property, indirectly also offset the inheritance tax on unlisted limited liability companies. If the real estate is valued at more than 60 pst, it will get a lower value because the maximum limits are lowered from 80 pst. to 60 pst. – as I told you before – while if it is valued lower, it will receive increased value and thus contribute to a higher inheritance fee. So the government is proposing a great deal of relief in inheritance tax rates and increased deductions. Both parts will benefit everyone, including many small and medium-sized enterprises. The base deduction for rate 1 of the inheritance tax is increased from NOK 250 000 to NOK 470000, and the rate is reduced from NOK 8 pst. to 6 pst. The discount for rate 2 is increased from SEK 550 000 to NOK 800000 and the rate is reduced from 20 pst. to 10 pst. The rates for heirs other than children and parents are reduced from 10 pst respectively. and 30 pst. to 8 pst. and 15 pst. An interest-free allowance scheme for generation change was introduced in family holdings in 2006. This scheme is now being extended, from seven years to twelve years, covering enterprises of all sizes, not only the smallest. We have maintained a discount scheme in the inheritance tax for such shares up to a ceiling of 10 million. kr per. heir. In addition, the residual inheritance tax is deducted from property, which reduces the taxes on wealth. The changes in the inheritance tax have been marked as dramatic, but it is to scare unnecessarily. At a seminar in charge of Handelshöjskolan, economists asked the following questions: Are we talking about a dramatic increase in the inheritance tax on generation change in family businesses? No, we do not, according to the Norwegian School of Commerce, precisely because of the changes in the rules I have referred to – or to quote Professor Terje Hansen's conclusion correctly: the crisis description given by the business community regarding the consequences of the new legacy system is therefore only customs. But what about these changes happening now, when we have a financial crisis? The equity situation in Norwegian business has greatly improved in recent years. In addition, we are more focused on increasing activity in the sectors affected by the decline in activity, for example. in the case of construction, rather than maintaining particularly favourable tax conditions for the richest owners. When you listen to the opposition, it seems that the tax doesn't change in rising and falling times. Of course it's not like that. When revenue is lower, you pay less tax. And when both equity and industrial property decreases due to a downward trend in the market, the property tax is also reduced accordingly. I will finally comment on some minor changes. A broad majority of the committee is in favour of changing the interest method for the issue of property taxes on power plants, because we want to prevent large fluctuations in municipal property tax revenue. During the budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy, we were made aware of the unexpected consequences of the change in the basis for calculating the risk-free interest rate for the 2007 budget. We listened to the input we received that the new system had other effects than what was intended. Therefore, we promote a legal text to correct this. Now there will be a separate balancing group for fixed technical installations in construction, with a depreciation rate of 10 pst. This will help to eliminate incentives in today’s rules to choose old technology – making it more profitable to invest in new and more energy-efficient solutions when replacing fixed technical installations. Such installations in commercial buildings are currently being depreciated together with the building, with a rate of 2 pst. for commercial buildings and 4 pst. for other commercial buildings. 10 pst. in the depreciation rate, for example: few heaters, refrigeration and freezing systems, electrical installations, sanitary facilities, hoists and other installations which form an integral part of the building. The social security settlement of the year was very good. Consequently, uniting with the minimum pension and the minimum pension units would initially increase the tax. By increasing the threshold of income covered by the tax restriction rule, the tax will not increase for that group. The net income limit for single pensioners is also increased, so that minimum pensioners are still not required to pay higher taxes after the peak social security settlement of spring. Private individuals who receive small domestic services will be able to rejoice that we are raising the wage reporting limit. It is now increasing from NOK 2000 to NOK 4000. The tax and tax changes in this budget follow the same pattern as the three previous tax and tax changes. We keep taxes at the 2004 level. We don't make any major system changes, but we're sharpening the distribution profile. All with gross income below NOK 750000 receive, on average, unchanged or reduced taxes. Those with a gross income between 750000 and 1 million. kr gets a slight tightening and those with gross income above 1 million. kr gets a marked sharpening. I wish the opposition could take a little more pleasure in the fact that the large majority actually get tax relief with this tax arrangement. Instead, it focuses on the few who are no longer able to avail themselves of specifically favourable tax rules, which in practice are not available to most people. By voting against our changes, you vote against tax relief for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e151	It's going to be line change. The first replicant is Ulf Leirstein, but before he gets the floor, the president will draw attention to the fact that the regulatory time for the evening meeting is immediately over. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e156	It would have been tempting to vote against the president's proposal, but that's the way it is. I record that when the position presents its tax regime, and in what it has put in the Odelstinget attitude, the level of taxation in 2004 has been taken into account. We are, as the representative Aasen himself was faced with, in a situation where we have troubled times, and it is clear that, at times of alarm, we should perhaps consider making a kind of counter-cyclical policy, as some countries do. The UK, where the Workers' Party's sister party is in government, has presented tax reliefs to meet the challenges facing the British economy. I record, as I said, that the representative of Aasen is very committed to maintaining the level of taxation from 2004. Is it the case that regardless of what the government parties are going to do with forward-looking measures to meet the crisis we are facing, we simply reject the idea of looking at the tax level or at concrete tax solutions that can stimulate a better everyday life for our businesses, or will we be open to assessing the kind of changes that we are now making with the package of measures notified by the Government and, if necessary, other measures up to the summer of 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e165	It's true, as the representative Leirstein says, that we now have a financial crisis that may be developing into a major economic crisis. It evolves in a negative direction, but just how it evolves, what happens, how it will turn out, and what means will ensure full employment, which is the most important thing for the Government, is difficult to say. That's why we need some time, which is announced in Stortinget before, and we'll get back to it in February. If tax changes become part of it, it's too early to say anything about it. What has been quite clear is that we should not exclude any changes, nor in this field, in the time to come, but tax relief is not the most natural thing to deal with first for this government. That's what I want to underline.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e170	Let me first say that it is gratifying that the representative Marianne Aasen does not exclude tax reductions in the context of the recession that we are now experiencing, but I cannot quite understand what you know in January/February, which you do not know now – except that it will probably go even worse. Otherwise it is interesting that a representative from the Workers' Party uses professors and chief economists as truth witnesses to justify the tax increase for the family-owned companies. It is not the case that this primarily affects the rich, it affects the 700,000 jobs that are in the unlisted companies, which are very much family-owned. I note that in the VG yesterday, a leading trustee and trade union summit say that ‘increased inheritance tax can destroy value creation and lead to sales, closures and fewer jobs — especially in times of crisis’. What is it that makes a representative from the Workers' Party so tumultuously disagree with a trade union summit on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e184	I understand that a trade union stop in this company in Drammen is busy with their own jobs – I understand that. That being said, I am of the opinion that property taxes, as they are levied in Norway, are directed at the individuals who own the enterprises. It does not target the companies as such. As a result, individual individuals are affected, and this company and many others who receive increased taxes on wealth are large holdings where the owners have large assets. It's made calculation examples that these professors have come up with, where the real value of the company can be 400 million. kr, and it's under 1 pst. in taxes on wealth. So some of these trade unionists have probably let themselves be frightened a little by the representative, Sanner, and others from the bourgeois side, that there are dramatic changes that are now being proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e189	Finally, it must be allowed to say that if these trade unionists are frightened by the representative Sanner and others from the civility, as the representative of the Aasen now said, they are truly easily frightened – I must say that. To what the Ace was about, on the one hand, you're happy to have tightened the wealth tax for someone. At the same time, on the other hand, the number of people who have suffered a reduced tax on wealth and that they should rejoice. This dualism in terms of wealth taxation is interesting. My question, however, is something else. When the Government is now to assess a crisis package or an incentive package – as you can see it – and there are depreciation rates: does this, from the Aasen representative’s point of view, fall under the heading of ‘unacceptable proposals’?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e198	First, a comment on the beginning of the representative Syversen said, namely that wealth taxation can also be organised in a more progressive way, i.e. that those who have the most pay the most. In Norway, too many people with low wealth have paid taxes on wealth. We've done something about that, and we think that's good -- not least, there's a lot of pensioners. And that those in Norway who have a lot of money, those who are rich pay more, I think we can live with. So to that with depreciation rates. The main measures that will come in any case to meet the economic crisis we are about to face will be to ensure the greatest possible work. Depreciation rates on machines may not be high on the list, because there are several hands in the business and more people in the job that are the most important. Then it's not certain that the type of instruments are the ones that hit the best right here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e205	I'm sure the representative of Aasen's house hasn't gone past the fact that we're getting daily news about companies that are having problems. People are being permitted on a very large scale, it looks like. We also hear about companies that no longer manage; you have to report orders and go bankrupt. There can be no doubt that equity and equity in enterprises are quite crucial to their ability to cope with bad times. You have to be a bad fortune teller, not to guess that we're going to get more and more news about this. Then, too, the tax regime adopted today by the majority, in isolation, contributes to increasing the taxation of the equity situation in the enterprise, and in isolation contributes to their poorer ability to cope with worse times. There may not be dramatic changes, but for a company that is on the verge of getting along or not, small changes can be quite crucial to their success. Does the representative agree that taxation of equity and the capital of the owners, which is clearly linked to the extent to which they have to withdraw from the enterprise, can, in isolation, be decisive for the success or otherwise of some enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e215	What the taxes on wealth are going to be in a year, that is. 31 December 2009, it is difficult to know. Then the value of very many of the companies that Sponheim is talking about will probably be significantly lower, and you will also get significantly lower taxes on wealth. In addition, we have increased the bottom line quite sharply, which will also help many small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they will be less affected by our approach. Actually, everyone will get relief. It's the richest, the owners who have a lot, that we're essentially tightening the tax rate. I am convinced that next year, too, the circumstances I have now pointed out will be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e220	In recent times, the size has been very concerned about providing business with increased loans and guarantees, and we have been working together in the Financial Committee to support such schemes. In this proposition, the Government proposes to wind up the company tax system's ban on loans and guarantees for companies that do not enter the transitional regime, and this supports all. Then you keep the ban on those who are in the arrangement – that's those who have 14 billion in equity. I'm not going to ask why the government parties won't let it fall under a release. What I'm going to ask about is the 7 billion kroner in the environmental part that we've been discussing over the past six and a half years, and that has been promised from the government parties, from the Minister of Industry, from the Minister of Finance, to give equity to the shipping companies. In the time we now stand in, when making arrangements for foreign capital, will the representative support a proposal to get this as equity?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e227	The billions Svein Fleet refers to are environmental investments. There has been some debate about how this should be handled in relation to accounting rules, etc. I am of the clear opinion that the legislation that is needed is in place, but what remains is that the shipping companies have to convince their own auditors that their own investments in environmental investment are credible and realistic. They will thus get this approved and handled properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e232	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e235	The progress party wants a lower, simpler and more conservative tax system than what we have today. That's also what we've had as a goal with the setting that we're going to deal with today. In addition to that, of course, we have taken on board the fact that we have a financial crisis, and we have therefore proposed extra large tax cuts this year. We think that's reasonable and correct in the situation we're in, so that we stimulate private consumption to stay up, and that it doesn't fall too much. In other words, we believe that tax and tax cuts are always important, but it is particularly important this year. It is not just the Progress Party that thinks so, also Prime Minister Gordon Brown in the United Kingdom has called for a global tax and tax cut to prevent a global recession. The countries with the best economies should also have the largest and strongest obligations to contribute to tax relief. Among the 30 OECD countries, no one has as well-filled and solid a state economy as Norway has, no one has as much surplus on the state budget, and no one has as much wealth as Norway has. Then it's strange that we're all in the top level when it's about the tax burden. Among the 30 OECD countries, only three countries have a higher tax burden than Norway, and that is Sweden, Denmark and Belgium. There are 26 countries that have a lower tax burden than Norway, despite the fact that no one has such a large and good government economy as Norway has. What we think is wrong, and that is why we have also proposed sound tax cuts. Most of the money we've spent on tax havens, we've given priority to those with ordinary revenues – it's social and fair tax cuts The Progress Party proposes. We're proposing to increase the bottom-up, we're proposing to increase the personal deduction. Of course, it turns out that those who have the lowest income and the least to walk with get the highest percentage cut. One as e.g. $50,000 is going to be paid for a tax bill of $2,600, while ten times as much, of course ten won't be taxed, but only five times as much. If you think twice as much as you do, you're only going to get one thousand more pieces of treasure. The maximum percentage of tax cuts goes to those with the lowest income. Those that have the most to route with already get less tax-free percentages than those that do little. That's what we think is right, that's what we think is reasonable. Even in the situation we're in now, it's going to be the best contribution to keeping private consumption up, because when you give tax relief to those who think the least, a larger share of it goes into the circulation of the economy, so that one doesn't get too much downtime and too many cancellations, for example. at the trading venue. In addition, we have proposed a number of other tax cuts. In the case of pensioners, we have proposed to increase the special deduction by NOK 1000. It's been the same for many years, and we want the pensioners to recover the lost. We also want to increase the minimum pension deduction to NOK 72 000, that the rate is set to 36 pst. We think it makes sense that pensioners get them cut, and that they also approach the minimum deduction for employees. We also want to reintroduce the special deduction for major disease costs, i.e. the standard deduction or the template deduction, which one might also call it. This was removed from the state budget in 2005, and we want to reintroduce it. There is something that will make things easier for too many people. For example, diabetics will not document all possible small costs, but may instead use a template deduction. It makes sense for the individual, and it also makes sense to reduce the amount of work and red tape in the equality offices. We also want to improve the depreciation rates for machines. We think it's important, especially in the situation we're now in, that one stimulates investment, so that things don't stop. When it relates to the property tax, we suggest that the base deduction be increased to NOK 750,000. We did not think it reasonable that those who have a fortune of NOK 750,000 and below should pay taxes on wealth. Our ultimate goal is, of course, to completely remove the property tax, but in this case we see the bottom deduction as NOK 750,000. This will result in a lot more people not paying taxes on wealth. In addition to the suggestions we're making, we want to zero all the edges of the government. This applies both to the 80 pst rule and to the reinforcements proposed by the Government when it relates to the property tax. We believe that all of these sharpnesses that are proposed come at a very unfortunate time. We thought it was very unfortunate anyway, but especially now there's an unfortunate time to get tax cuts on. We also found it strange that tightening and changes in the exemption method come after such a short time. We also see that one has a significant increase in the fees for both snuff and non-alcoholic beverages. We wonder about that too. We believe that, among other things, will increase border trade, which we don't need right now. We want to remove the inheritance fee completely. The same way a configurator, adjusts and changes the inheritance fee, we don't think the inheritance fee can be fair. We note that a change has now been made. I'm absolutely sure there'll be new changes if not too long. Inheritance charges cannot be fair. That is why we are following it and removing the inheritance fee in our alternative state budget. We cut the electric charge by 2 cents per. kWh. It will mean a lot to those who have least. Of course, for those who have a lot, such a cut does not mean something significant, but for those who have marginal income, this will mean a good deal. The car charges are high in Norway. This is what the Progress Party wants to do. Therefore, we propose to cut the one-time fee by 10 pst. We want to get rid of the entire one-time fee in the long run. We think it's unfortunate that we have so high new car prices in Norway. As a result, we have an old car park, and an old car park brings with it many negative things, including: one gets more seriously damaged traffic. It also leads to more pollution, especially in the cities, than if the car park had been newer. We also want to reduce the fuel tax by 1.25 kroner per person. litres, both for petrol and diesel. That includes VAT. We also have a border-trade package, where we want to reduce taxes on both alcohol and tobacco. We think that's reasonable and right to do that. We also have proposals for customs reductions in the case of free trade, which should lead to greater trade with developing countries. Then I just want to mention that we have also proposed to reduce the document fee from 2.5 pst. to 2 pst. In the past, it has been used as an argument against reducing the charge that it will push up property prices. At present, property prices are free of charge, and it would be reasonable and appropriate to reduce the fee. Finally, I would like to re-submit the suggestions in the setting that the Progress Party is behind, either alone or together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e271	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e276	It is tempting to comment that the representative Gjermund Hagesetter has made more elegant contributions than this, which was actually an estimate of most taxes and taxes. I almost wonder if there were any taxes and taxes that the Progress Party may have forgotten to put down, because here we got the whole frame. But what I'm really going to ask is why the Progress Party, which often says that they're a party to most people, prioritizes giving the biggest tax reliefs to people who make over 500,000 dollars, and that people who make over 1 million dollars. NOK, six and a half times as much relief as people who earn less than NOK 200,000. Thinks the Progress Party that most people make more than 1 million. kr a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e283	So, as I said in my post, we've given the percentage of the biggest tax dollars to those who care least. But now it's actually also so that when you give tax credits and when you cut and reduce both the bottom and the person deduction, it's going to be the highest tax rate for those who think the most. One that, for example, I'm going to have $500,000, I'm going to have a tax bill of $13,682, and I'm going to have $1 million. kr gets a marginally larger tax bill of NOK 14 705, which is a thousand more copies of the NOK 500000, which is the difference between NOK 500000 in income and NOK 1 million. kr in income. It shows that we prioritise them with income less than 500,000 kroner, that is, those with ordinary income. It's the ones that get the biggest taxes, and it's the ones that we spend most of the dollars on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e292	The Progress Party may say exactly what they want about the whole of its tax package and the profile of it, but they cannot avoid that some of the most effective distribution proposals by the government parties, namely the conversion of the inheritance tax and the property tax in relation to both the 80 pst rule and the rotations we make in the field of business taxation, have a clear distribution profile that the Progress Party only zeros completely through its tax policy. But now leave it. I was going to grab hold of what goes on with environmental taxes, which the Progress Party is going on hard. They have obviously not realised that a reduction in the one-off charge does not lead to a newer car park, but mainly to several cars on the roads. Together with a reduction in the tax on petrol and automotive diesel and as much as possible, this will lead to more driving and thus more traffic-killing. But I was going to ask the Progress Party about one thing: Is the reason why you want to do this that you're not concerned about doing anything about the environmental problems, or is it because you don't believe in the environmental problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e301	The party for progress is concerned with the environmental problems, but we believe that one should not have special-purpose environmental taxes and special-purpose environmental requirements. We don't think that's going to affect the environment at all, which will simply lead to a possible deflagration of the industry from Norway to countries that have even weaker environmental requirements than one in the Western world. So if you're going to have environmental requirements, it has to be coordinated with other countries. So you can't have any strange requirements. When it comes to cars, we have also suggested increasing the wreckage as well as reducing the single entry fee. That's what we openbert wanted to give a newer car park. And a newer car park would also be a more environmentally friendly car park than the old car park we have in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e308	It's very strange what the Progress Party says about increasing the wreckage. It's not like people are going to throw fully functional cars if you increase the wreckage and leave it at a high level, as the Progress Party puts up in its budget proposal. It would have been very special. I don't think Gjermund Hagesetter would think of recommending someone to wreck a healthy and nice car. That would just lead to more cars on the roads, I think we can get a very easy fix. But the important question was not answered, namely about the large amount of money. So almost $4 billion is going to reduce the rate on petrol and car diesel, and we know that that means that people are going to drive more cars because one lowers the cost. My question is: the IEA report makes it very clear that we need more energy efficiency and emission reduction, but the Progress Party is adding up to the opposite, more driving. Are you concerned about greenhouse gas reduction, or do you really not believe it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e318	So the progress party sees no reason why Norway should have the highest rates of petrol, diesel and car taxes in Europe and in most parts of the world. Among the ten largest oil exporting countries, Russia and Norway alone do not subsidize their consumers. Russia has exceeded half of the gas price we have in Norway for consumers. Then we thought it was reasonable and fair and fair to reduce the fees so that consumers get cheaper fuel. I don't think people are driving too much just the gasoline and the diesel is getting cheap enough. The car is a necessary means of transport in District Norway. A car is running because you should, not because you think it's such a bad time driving a car.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e325	It is interesting to note that in one of their comments the Progress Party clearly stresses that they want to exempt the municipalities from the possibility to print property taxes on their power plants. In my municipality, Modum, property taxes from the power plants contribute 15 million fresh kroner to the municipal budget for next year. If we lose the right to collect this tax, it equals the dismissal of 30 teachers or the termination of a couple of hospital wards. It's dramatic. It becomes more interesting when we put this in context with the attitude of the Advance Party to power ownership. I quote from the party program: ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers will gradually reduce public interests in all types of energy production.’ The Progress Party therefore believes that municipalities should be deprived of these income opportunities, which are based on the exploitation of their own natural resources. Since the Progress Party rarely flags this case the highest in e.g. My locality, the Construction Post, I would like to clarify the following: What has been done wrong by the Power Municipalities since, according to the Progress Party, they have no longer earned their own income opportunities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e339	Now, when you're dealing with these millions of healthy dollars that go to the municipalities, as the representative expresses it here, someone has to pay this money. Someone has to pay this property tax. We think it's going to go beyond jobs, it's going to go beyond interest to start business, and so we think the municipalities should do without these property tax revenues. On the other hand, we have called for and worked for and proposed that part of the corporate tax should remain with the municipalities, so that the municipalities get a financial gain by facilitating the development of economic activity in the municipality. I notice that the red-green parties don't think is a good idea, and they're therefore going to go against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e346	Gjermund Hageseter comes with pure words for the money. You can't help saying that a person who makes 500,000 dollars is going to get five times as much tax relief as a person with a low income, and a person who makes over one million dollars. kr, gets six and a half times more. There's a pretty big difference of five times and six and a half times versus one, which is the starting point here. Now leave it. The problem with the tax system presented here by the Progress Party is that it will never see the light of day if they do not get a clean majority in the Grand Duchy. The Vice-Chairman of the Right – we have repeated this innumerable number of times – and the leader of the Right has also shot down the entire economic policy of the Progress Party, because they use astronomical sums of oil money based on the idea of a number to finance their tax relief. I have heard the answer to what will happen, to await government negotiations and all these other autopilots' responses in the past, so I would like to ask the representative Gjermund Hageseter: what does he and the Progress Party think about the cash rejection from the Right regarding the economic policy that covers the violent tax relief proposed by the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e355	When it comes to the Right and the Advance Party, I think we'll come to an agreement on the day that we have a plural number here, possibly in conjunction with other bourgeois parties. So we're going to sit down, and then we're going to come to a consensus. I'm pretty sure of that. I want to repeat this with the taxes. One that's going to cost $50,000 is going to have a tax bill of $2,600. It's a 5.2 pst tax haven. of the income. One that's $1 million. So I'm going to get $14.705 in tax dollars, so that's about 1 pst. of the income. What's the point here, anyway, is that those who care the most will get the largest bills of tax. It was something that also experienced the red-green government with Kristin Halvorsen as finance minister when they had tax credits on income in their first budget line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e362	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e365	The notion of next year's tax change is more current than ever. It comes in the middle of a time when the word uncertainty is what is most commonly used by those who are responsible for the decisions that will bring us the best possible through the crisis we are about to face. The road is short from uncertainty to pessimism, and the majority position will contribute to such a development by part of the business community. Tax laws and tax rules are economic realities that quickly impact on the dispositions of the individual enterprise. Therefore, our decisions are of great importance to many businesses and many jobs around this country in 2009. What is the fundamental distinction between minorities and the majority in this position is that the majority sees only taxation as a means of increasing the state's revenues, as a policy of distribution and as an ideological flagship. Most of the minority’s comments and proposals are based on the fact that taxes are seen as a fast-acting real-economy instrument, especially in a period of recession in which businesses and jobs are taken into account. I'm glad that the right in many things in the setting represents this direction along with parts of or the whole opposition. Government parties believe that there is now time to tax commercial property harder, as well as the introduction of a new bureaucratic calculation and taxing system. We think it's crazy medicine for the companies and the workplaces. In fact, with the high level of indebtedness of recent Norwegian commercial property, it could also contribute to more financial instability. The government parties believe that this is a good time to remove the 80 pst. rule, that no one should pay more than 80 pst. of its income in total taxes — a rule that has been behind many decades and on which the Workers' Party has stood for all years. One shall look for a long time to find a less appropriate time to increase the taxation of the owners of Norwegian business, for that is what this is. At a time when optimism is not exactly at the height of business, government parties also believe that new burdens should be imposed on those who will continue to operate family businesses after a generation change, by increasing the inheritance tax. The right goes in the opposite direction and promotes proposals along with other parties to remove the entire inheritance fee. It is then the only solution for a charge that will always turn out unfair and very often fail. The government too is now clearly aware of this, since it is now proposing a significant deduction and relief, and it is good – for many others of the same proposals that were quick to reverse after they were submitted by the Bondevik II government in the autumn of 2005. Even the left side perceives that injustice strikes a nerve in the population that cannot be taken into account. It's joyous, and a new government will soon have to deal with removing the last ideological remains of the inheritance fee. The time has clearly also come for the majority to breach the principle of tax reform that there should be no chain taxation between companies, which was the prerequisite for increased dividend taxation. The currently proposed stencil will both lead to extra work and contribute to chain taxation. The taxation of Norwegian maritime activities has been a repetition of the debates in the Committee in the last year. The transitional regime for companies taxing two thirds of the accumulated tax credits was a questionable decision in relation to the Constitution. The comfort of the industry was that a total increase, with the government parties at the head, both during the debate and in subsequent follow-up in Stortinget, has promised that the environmental third part of NOK 7 billion, which was supposed to be accounted for as equity, would be just that. So today we experience that in a line exchange, it is said that this has to be sorted out with its auditors. No, it's not like that. The government has to do something about this. The right also wants to oppose the liquidation of municipal corporation tax. We believe that it is now, in particular, a signal to municipalities that they should make the best possible use of business locally and contribute to increased tax revenue. The right promotes a wide range of larger and smaller proposals that will reduce the tax bill for businesses, secure jobs and stimulate employment and saving. Most of the proposals and maximum amounts are not about tax relief, but about reducing the sharps of the Government and thus showing how to reduce the adverse effects on Norwegian business. One of the most important proposals concerns increased depreciation rates for machinery, an instrument that quickly enters the economy and reduces the tax burden on new investments. We stimulate work by proposing increases in the minimum deduction, and we remove the curtailment for pensioners who want to work longer. We increase the tax credit for saving on individual annuities and in individual pension savings back to the old schemes. As mentioned above, the opposition stands together about a lot in this setting. For those who believe that the framework conditions of value-creating Norway in a real economic downturn are important, it is optimistic to find in the agreement on the political direction of fiscal policy that characterises all four opposition parties. This is in stark contrast to what is often claimed by the position in this Chamber, at the latest in the financial debate last week – and we have heard it here today – namely how much disunity exists between all these parties, and what disasters our country will face in the face of a large number of disasters other than red-green ones would be putting forward for Norwegian businesses and jobs. There is a difference between what the current government partners could show in fiscal policy in the autumn of 2004 before entering that electoral year and what can now be seen on the non-socialist side. In a number of cases, the opposition either agrees to oppose the proposed sharps in enterprises and workplaces, or agrees to promote new necessary relief for business. The batches do not always agree on the dosage, but there is an unambiguous signal of changes from a possible second and new number of folds – changes that allow security and optimism to be better established in value-creating Norway. That in a government where a business party like the Center Party is a member could not agree on at least not increasing the taxes on businesses and jobs in the situation we are now in is a mystery. That business will not have increased taxes is nothing new. Many people would say that there is nothing new either that the Right does not want to increase taxes. But what's new is the time we're up in. Many will have to reconsider their perceptions of how the public, business and market can best work together. Then there should be a lot less room for ideological leaders from the government parties than what we have seen in fiscal policy. The government has granted itself an extended Christmas holiday until February to follow the situation closely, possibly bringing new packages. It should also be used to get out of the ideological swamp of taxation of businesses and jobs. Then one has to stop thinking that the equity of any enterprise is owned by the rich, or by those who have the most already. Then you have to try to establish a tax policy, not just a tax rhetoric. However, I am pleased with the point of light that the representative Holmås appeared to have during the financial debate last Thursday, when I realized that he thought a bit on the road that owners of companies who went badly, perhaps both could be exempted from the rhetoric about the rich and considered as a target group in order that the taxes would not be increased. The problem with this kind of tax policy thinking is that it will actually be difficult to stimulate businesses while not wanting anyone to make money on their business. The positions of banks in these days also do not make the last one an easy exercise. Norwegian jobs and businesses would have been stronger, safer and more optimistic if tax increases had already been reversed for 2009. In Norway, the Government increases the tax on jobs and enterprises. In other countries, it is being reduced, regardless of party, to meet the worse times. Our Danish colleagues from the Finance Committee in Folketinget could tell us today about a tax package of 9 billion kroner from January in Denmark. Tax policy must now be more important than tax rhetoric of the type of government. If there's a rhetoric that's important now, it's the one that says politicians appreciate people who want to take a roof, who want to work, who want to create jobs, who want to create businesses, tax revenues and well-being. It is difficult to understand that it is not possible for this government to operate the distribution policy with the economic starting point, without having to weaken Norwegian jobs and Norwegian enterprises. I finally want to comment on a line that appeared here today, from Marianne Aasen about the Royal Chamber of Commerce in Bergen and their seminars on the inheritance fee. I think it's quite possible to run seminars in Bergen on inheritance fees, but I actually think, unlike the representative of Aasen, that when you go out and meet breweries and trade unions, you can travel from Bergen and into the fjords to any family hotel that's been inherited for generations, and see what the situation is, you actually see that there are big problems in taking over that way. In this setting, a number of good suggestions have been presented. I take up the proposals that have not already been put forward, whether we are alone about them or with others – that is for the most part the last.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e401	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he made. Moreover, the President would point out that the ideological swamp may not be of the very best parliamentary terms that can be used in this Chamber. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e408	After the presentation of the fleet's lecture here, you could get a sense of being at a seminar anytime. He spoke at least so convincingly that one would almost believe he himself believed what he said. The representative Fleet has now repeatedly argued for several weeks that the Government has brought a tax increase. It doesn't. We stick to the promise we made to the voters: we keep the tax at the 2004 level. I'm going to be so honest that I say that the Right adds to the tax bill in its budget so to speak everywhere, except in the case of one or maybe two groups, but at least it concerns those who really take hold of Norway, but who choose to organize themselves in bad times, and who get a right to their job. Is it possible for the representative of the fleet to justify the political reasons for this policy against the workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e419	I thank the representative of Klungland for the ritual questions about the union quota, which always comes at this time of the year. I'm going to answer him in the same ritual that I always respond to, that the deduction from the union quota has been increased much more than other tax deductions. I can't see that taxpayers will otherwise be involved in financing the link between the LO, the Workers' Party and the red-green parties. That's why we're going against and we've suggested something else. We haven't removed it at all. Neither has the representative said so, but we keep it at a different, better and more accurate level.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e424	I hope that we can allow the term ‘ideological swamp’, because there are some people who wash around in the swamp, it's the Right. If you think we're being challenged because we actually want to pursue a fair distribution policy, that's quite right. We've always done that. We've always wanted to do that. But it's the right that's the laurel for the well-off. It's the right that repeatedly puts in budgets where they cut in taxes, and they cut the tax the most for the rich. I would like to ask the representative of the fleet: when on a global scale we presented a Right Budget that did not cut taxes, which did not cut taxes the most for the richest? Even in this budget, in line with the government's tax cuts proposal, they provide up to $100,000 for people who make over $3 million. kr. Not even the 80 pst rule, they haven't been able to stay. It's amazing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e432	The representative Holmås’ expression ‘sump’ does not improve if the representative uses it. I want to give Svein Fleet the opportunity to respond – hopefully without a swamp.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e435	I'll do that, even though I'm a leak for some groups in society. I don't know if it's anything more high-ranking to fight for one special group in society than for others. What we're doing is fighting for the workplaces. We are fighting that the representative Heikki Holmås's people, as he calls it, should have a job to go to, get a salary, have a safe home and be able to manage their expenses. What has happened in this budget is that taxes on Norwegian business and jobs have been increased. The representative Holmås talks about distribution policy, but when was it good distribution policy to weaken Norwegian jobs so that people get into unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e444	The representative Fleet put great emphasis on the fact that what had changed was the situation. New and dramatic circumstances require new grips, if I understood the Fleet correctly. I want to challenge the Fleet and the Right on the following: What new grip is there in the Right's alternative arrangement that is different from before, just to meet these challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e451	The handles are the same, but the dosage is completely different. If the representative Sande goes back to our previous alternative budgets, he will, among other things, See that tax reliefs, tax reductions, which are largely a reversal of the red-green intensities this year, are several times higher than they were in the past. It's because we believe that giving businesses better framework conditions, first and foremost by bringing back the sharpness that comes from the red-green ones, and as I noticed in parentheses, you think you're going to have to bite yourself, at least in part, during the winter, securing the jobs. We've put in larger doses, more money, than we've done before. The recipe is the same, the dosage is stronger.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e456	After hearing the contributions of the representative of the fleet, I am not in doubt that he is concerned about industrial policy, but the tax system is used in the distribution policy. And the right is also concerned about that. Then I would like to quote from Programme Debate 2, where you have discussed the party program, where it says: ‘It is also important to be aware that, when the taxes on wealth may be eliminated completely, some persons with significant assets could become zero-tax payers by not paying any taxes on wealth or income tax because the tax-free return on equity investments is sufficient income. For the Right, it's important that everyone contributes. It's not fair if the richest get away without paying taxes. Therefore, if the taxes on wealth are removed completely, it is necessary to consider other measures that prevent some from becoming zero-tax payers.» What I'm asking is whether the representative fleet thinks it's okay that there are a lot of zero tax payers in Norway, and in what taxes will he try to implement if he doesn't want zero tax payers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e466	Let me first thank the representative of the Aasen for her interest in the tax policy of the Right to obtain our draft consultation for a new party programme, where we are fully open to the important tax policy at the bottom of all value creation. We don't want anyone to be free passengers and zero-tax payers. We look at changes in the tax system in the future, including: the elimination of taxes on wealth. It's a very clear problem on our part – and I'm completely open to that. Then we have to look at what solutions we can find to prevent anyone from becoming zero tax collectors. But if the representative Aasen had hoped for some good, constructive contributions to new tax types for people today, she will not get it from me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e473	You want to remove the inheritance fee completely. You don't want taxes on wealth. There are many who have assets in Norway that do not have income. They live on their fortunes. How should they be taxed when you are also taxed against property taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e478	That's what we've been problematizing in this note. We do not want anyone to be a free passenger. But, as I say, the representative of the Aasen gets no tip from me about how she can sharpen the taxes further. At least we don't want to go into property taxes. We want to find schemes that eliminate property taxes, which are a burden on Norwegian jobs, which go directly to ownership, in a way that does not create zero-tax payers. That is why we have sent this out to the organisations, which is why we have received a number of answers. We're evaluating the solutions. If we get very good ideas, I'm going to inform the Workers' Party and the Aasen representative, but I'm a little worried about it, because I know from experience that they only use one side of the solutions – the one that gives more tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e483	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e486	The last representative of the fleet said before he left the podium was directly wrong. It's not like we've used the extra tax revenue in the last two budgets to increase the revenue of the state. We have, on the contrary, redistributed them. Every penny we've redistributed by just making sure to make the wealth tax what it's supposed to be, that's a wealth tax, a tax for those who have the greatest assets. We have taken important steps to eliminate the tax on wealth for those who have little or no wealth. There are 400,000 people who don't pay anything in taxes on wealth after the changes we've made. That is a very clear proof of what is our main profile in this budget: fair distribution. For the property tax part, we've done it in several ways. We want to remove the 80 pst. rule, which I cannot with my best will understand that rising politicians from other parties want to preserve, because it is a rule that essentially protects the people who are stone rich here in the country. That was one piece. The second part is that we get a more reasonable wealth tax system when we increase the taxation of commercial property. I can't understand why the right parties think it's right that through taxes on wealth, we get an overinvestment in the type of business that has commercial property as its main business. If we look at the list of the richest people in this country, we will find more people who are rich precisely because they have invested in industries where there are either monopolistic tendencies or under-taxation, such as. within the shipping industry and in parts of the commercial real estate industry. That's why the changes we make in taxes on wealth are good. They're focused on redistributing. If it was the opposition's view that these proposals were really bad because they hit jobs, they should have had the courage to come up with other tax proposals, which had an equally good distribution effect, but with, in their opinion, less negative impact on business, which they claim our proposals have. I believe that we cannot take those recordings in any other way than as a mere declaration of war against the kind of distribution policy that we want to conduct, namely to ensure that those who have much pay more taxes, and that those who have little, or less wealth, pay less taxes. The other thing is the inheritance fee. Here there was a public sample that looked at this, and that showed very clearly that we have an inheritance tax in Norway today that works regressively, that is. that those who inherit the largest amounts also pay the lowest percentage tax. We can't accept that kind of tax. The tax system is designed to distribute, not to take from people who have inherited funds, and to take less from those people who inherit much. That is why we have made sure to put in place a redistributive inheritance tax system in line with the intentions of the Zimmer Committee, which goes many steps towards it, but which at the same time has the effect that when you have business takeovers in small businesses, family-owned businesses, you have schemes such as: makes it possible to pay the inheritance fee over a period of 12 years, which will provide good opportunities for family transfers to be made without pain. So that's the last important part, and that's the environmental profile right there. We have one important environmental tax measure, and it is that we continue to convert the car charges in order to get a more environmentally friendly car park that we started two years ago. It's an important grip. When we did the first handle on the conversion of the charge, where we taxed them as contaminated, more than what we did before, we got an immediate response, where the average car that was sold released 10 pst. less CO2 than it did before. That is very good, because in this way we can achieve the goals of more efficient car fleets that the EU has set up, to which we have joined and which are crucial to reducing emissions from the transport sector. This last change, in which we create good ground for plug-in hybrid cars, gives the next step in the conversion in a more environmentally friendly direction, which can be almost sold under the slogan ‘Death over Porshce Cayenne’, which is the car that most notices the change in fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e508	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e511	It is obvious that the representative Holmås is very proud that one has been given the increased property tax. Now it is that the wealth tax does not depend on where the enterprise is located, but where the owner of the enterprise is located. I'm sure you'll find it. are two Norwegian companies competing against each other, and the one moves to Sweden, it means that he avoids taxes on wealth, while the other owner of the holding, who is still living in Norway, has to deduct capital from the holding, pays dividends tax on the capital he collects in order to pay taxes on wealth. The representative Holmås sees it as a problem that one can move out, for example. to Sweden, and let go of the property tax, or does the representative Holmås see this as completely unproblematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e516	I see this as completely unproblematic, and if it were such that Gjermund Hagesetter could come up with a list of all the people who are going to flee the country and become tax collectors, as John Fredriksen has become, it would be very all right if he could set up with that list to me. I see he has one on his inner pocket, so it is possible that we can get a preparation during the evening! But this is the way in which we in Norway have chosen to finance Community solutions such as school, kindergarten, care for the elderly and health care through our contribution to the community and the cost of spending. We share the cost, because it is a cheaper, more efficient and fairer way to do this, and then we have higher taxes in Norway than it is in some other countries. We think it's right that you should be taxed according to your ability. Those who are the most wealthy are also the people who have the best ability to contribute to the community, and therefore it is reasonable that they do so. If the Progress Party thinks it is a problem, well, then they may be able to fly out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e521	Today’s Business Today, the representative Holmås says, ‘The taxes will rise in good times and flatten out in bad times’. So this is what SV's fiscal spokesman Heikki Holmås says. Provided that the economic cycle fluctuates, and I assume that the representative Holmås and I agree that they will, we will in this way still get an increase and an flare and an increase, and then we will approach 100 pst. at the end. I assume that Holmås will at some point see that it flashes a lamp. Then my question becomes: is there at all a small example, a small light, where it may be that Holmås goes in order to reduce the total tax burden?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e528	I'm open -- I think Michael Momyr has an all right point. I don't think I'm going to go in for 100 pst. tax on neither work nor other things, so there I think at least I can agree. But to our point: as for the years that come, let's say the next 20-30 years, I think both the right and the left of Norwegian politics agree that we have challenges with an ageing population, such as: This means that we will have increased costs of care for the elderly, we will have increased pension costs in the coming period, and we need to finance this. I believe that it is right that we do it by increasing taxes – not in bad times, because then we will have downtimes and bad advice, and less upliftment about it. In good times, however, we should contribute more, but not close to 100 pst. We've organized ourselves so that we share the cost of taxes in terms of the things we think it's important to fund together. One of the things that we think it is important to finance, and as we propose for the next parliamentary term, is a dental reform, which costs a good deal of money, but instead of people going without proper dental care because they can't afford it, we propose to fund it together.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e533	With the last promise of a new dental reform, it might be tempting to ask if that promise comes in the same category as hot lunch for schoolchildren. But I won't. Since the representative Holmås was in swampy areas: I saw in the newspaper that he also had equipment for such things, namely rubber boots, it looked quite solid until, when he presented demands for a new government participation from SV. I intend to go back to the election campaign before the last big shot. Then SV responded to increase the rate of depreciation. It favours the ‘rock kingdom’, which the representative Holmås mentioned earlier in his post. So my question is, why do you want to favour these people as "rich rocks" through increased depreciation rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e542	We have been constantly in favour of a more efficient transformation of the tax system in order to improve the functioning of Norwegian society and the Norwegian economy, and to achieve a better distribution. I don't ignore that, for example. Such a rate of depreciation proposal, which we have implemented in relation to technical installations in construction, is something that we need to consider in the future, for example. against the crisis package that we come with in January/February, and I have previously said here, in the financial debate, that it is one of many proposals that should be considered. But at the same time, I would like to say that it is not that tax relief cannot be given without at the same time increasing taxes in other areas, and that is what we have stood for. After all, when we have said that the 2004 level is fixed in fiscal policy, there has just been room for a more environmentally friendly, more industrially friendly and more distributive approach to fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e547	We have received an interesting confession from the Minister of Finance's spokesman in Stortinget today, and that's what he has said in the past, namely that the tax should either go up, or it can in periods of time flatten out a little bit. Then he'll at some point go up to 100 pst. That means everyone has to pay everything in taxes. It has to be the ultimate distribution in society. But it does not even mean Heikki Holmås is a wish to come. This means that there must be some kind of recognition that at some point the tax becomes so high that the tax base disappears, and therefore there is nothing to distribute, and then there is nothing to take care of all of us who get old once. He said it's a piece away from 100 pst. I hope he can confirm that it's quite far from 100 pst. If we're going to have values that we can tax at all, that will enable us to solve all of the public problems we need to solve in the future. How far away from 100 pst. Is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e552	It is not that Lars Sponheim raises a very small question in his reply and I in my reply – both in 1 minute. Because there is a huge difference in the type of tax that affects the type of work that different people do. That's what we're concerned about, isn't it, that people are going to do with ability, and get the opportunity to get as needed in the welfare society we live in. And when it comes to low incomes, we've always been a supporter of lowering taxes. As far as environmental pollution is concerned, we have been accompanied by an increase in taxation. In the case of where 100 pst. is reached on environmental taxation: Lars Sponheim also realizes that it is not a set number. For example, the IEA says: the cost of CO2 pollution is NOK 1200 and will be from 2020 onwards. And we're far from that level. That is precisely the context, the whole of fiscal policy: we have to make sure that we increase the tax in order to finance the community, for the environment, and lower it where it is most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e562	The representative Holmås says that the rich have to contribute more to property taxes. And then I thought he might come up with an assessment of and some thoughts about where these money comes from. If e.g. a company owner is charged with paying a few million dollars in property taxes, where does the representative Holmås believe these money come from? Does the owner have an own wealth tax account, or does he also think, in some cases, that the owners of the enterprise are forced to withdraw money from the enterprise, which makes the poorer ones equipped to meet bad times, and that one can thus put the workplaces at greater risk because the companies, because of the taxes on wealth being deducted, become less robust?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e567	As for the behaviour of the rich, I rely on Trygve Hegnar. And Trygve Hegnar says that people who own don't make money when they take them from their business and put them in their own pocket, they earn money when their businesses profit. The whole point is, of course, that just as a wage earner takes out money from the profits of the company by putting them in his own pay bag, the company owner takes out his salary when he collects capital surplus from his company, from the equity of the company. For the surplus, as both the representative and I know, are transferred directly to the company's equity, where it may end up in the pockets of the owner. And I think that's fine. I see what Trygve Hegnar is talking about. So does Gjermund Hageseter. It is quite obvious that the money is taken from the company to pay the tax. But truly my hat, they also have good advice, very many of these people who own businesses that have experienced an adventurous era in recent years. I hope that they have been the losers in their behavior, as I said in my reply to Lars Sponheim earlier, so that they have spent money in good times and saved at bad times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e577	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e580	When Heikki Holmås says that he trusts Trygve Hegnar, I realize that there has been a certain development in the tax policy of the red-green and in the view of who you have as an ally and not. What is it really a tax scheme to provide? Is it just getting income? Is it to ensure good distribution? Or is it perhaps to make sure that we have a business that contributes to new growth and jobs? – a good business that we can also benefit from in the future, and not just think in the short term. When the Christian People's Party has promoted its fiscal arrangements for 2009, it is also to ensure that we have a map that is somewhat adapted to the terrain. There we believe that there is a certain difference between what the government has presented and what the government parties get through today, and what the opposition has presented. Because I cannot say with my best will that the proposal of the Government is adapted to the terrain. There is a lot to say about the scheme for the different types of tax, but there is also a lot of talk about the time when you choose to promote tax incentives. That's why we are from the Christian People's Party, even though in previous years we have been somewhat at the level of the government parties in terms of the level of taxation, even though we have had a different arrangement, absolutely disagree with the tax austerity proposed, it is an increase in the equivalency of commercial property, an increase in the tax on business both on the wealth section and on the inheritance tax, and not using instruments that can strengthen business in the current situation. For the Christian People's Party, it will mean that we are in favour of increased limits on the amount of tax FUNN. It also means that we are in favour of an inheritance tax exemption for family-owned enterprises at the time of generation change, and where the company then operates for a few years. And that means increasing depreciation rates on machines, ships, fishing vessels, rigs, car combinations, vans and agricultural buildings. In the case of taxes on labour, we propose 25 pst. reduction in all rates applicable to the employer’s fee for apprentices. We also propose a tax deduction for people between 62 and 67 years of age who are not on social security and have pension income, and we increase the short-term limit to NOK 49 600. On the savings side, we increase the possibilities of tax-reduction housing, and we also increase the maximum level of individual pension savings. Voluntaryness could also have required increased incentives on the tax side. We're increasing the gift allowance to NOK 18 000. We also increase the limit on when non-governmental organisations have to report compulsory compensation of employees to the authorities, thus facilitating the work of these organisations. We also make a tax exchange, in which we strengthen the charges to promote good environmental behaviour and good preventive health behaviour. We are removing the customs duties on goods from Vietnam, India, Pakistan and Nigeria. It is also a contribution to ensuring better trade with developing countries. I have noticed that after we received the cancellation, certain new signals have been received from the government parties regarding the tax and tax side. What was rejected before it was clearly rejected, namely any tax relief or relief for business, has now been replaced by a willingness to assess it. You will look at it and perhaps come back to it in the package that is expected in a few months' time. We're positive about that and we're waiting for the result. In the meantime, I will address the good suggestions we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e606	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e611	I would like to address one of the main themes that the representative Syversen used to talk about. The Christian People's Party opposes the Government's proposal to create a better distribution profile in the tax system. In other words, one will keep the dirt hole for the most prosperous in the country. Another consequence is that over 90 pst. of the beneficiaries of the inheritance tax are not benefiting from the proposed conversion. Those who look at the conversion are ordinary people, people who will probably notice the body part of the economically difficult times that we are unfortunately facing. My question to the representative Syversen is therefore: Does the Christian People's Party think that it is particularly high-worthy to spend money on keeping up the motthol for the most prosperous, and let ordinary people pay for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e620	If the assumptions in the line from Reidar Sandal were correct, probably the answer could be what he wants. But first of all, it's not like we're going to go against the relief in, for example. the inheritance tax proposed by the Government. We support them. But we have therefore gone against the sharpening of those who represent Sandal, Holmås and everyone else from the red-green characterise as ‘rocky’ or have given other suitable characteristics. We don't do that primarily because of these people. We're just going to do that because we're going to see what kind of map we have in front of us, what terrain we have in front of us. Regardless of what is believed to be about the provision of the property tax and inheritance tax, the time has not now come to provide tax incentives, which can once again go beyond jobs and thus increase unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e625	The Christian People's Party is a party with a fundamental view of values. That's why I'm taking a line. Because it is a bit alarming when the representative Syversen says that he has been able to feel some sympathy for the red-green tax policy in the past – I expect that, among other things. is for distribution – but now it is saying that it has changed significantly and that his views are completely different in this budgetary position. I thought I'd give him a minute to elaborate it a little bit further, since his speaking time was relatively short.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e632	I choose to interpret it as a very kind act, and I will take the time to elaborate. So, as you'll see from the budgetary positions, from the change of government to today, we in the Christian People's Party have been somewhat at the same level as the government parties in terms of taxes and taxes. It is also based on an assessment of a reasonable level. Now it should also be said that two thirds of the tax reliefs that the previous government brought with it retained the current government. You wouldn't believe that when you heard the rhetoric before the last election – but that's what it actually was. But what we can't be satisfied with is the device that this government has had on its tax policy, where all those who actively contribute their capital, are almost stamped as a pariah caste. The only thing that helps is that it affects jobs and Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e641	Christian People's Party writes in its attitude that they do not want tax incentives for business 'at a time when the financial crisis creates so much uncertainty'. First, I would like to point out that the tax conversion proposed by the government parties is not a tax increase, but an improvement in the distribution effects, which many people have had, among other things. through the grips we take in relation to taxes on wealth, where increased rebates result in 110 000 fewer people with lower wealth not paying taxes on wealth. My question to the Christian People's Party is this: When does the Christian People's Party think it is an appropriate time to introduce a fairer tax? Is it two years from now, or is it five years from now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e650	After all, a proper distribution of the level of taxation — who may pay more or who may pay less — should be sought on an ongoing basis. What we have said in this context is that it can be difficult to bring tax incentives, which in turn will affect jobs and thus increase unemployment. It is therefore true that representatives of the government parties now say that they will consider how the tax regime should, if appropriate, be changed in its incentive or crisis package. But I want to say that in terms of the taxes on wealth, I feel a very strong relationship with the Center Party, which has suggested that there should be no wealth tax on working capital. It's exactly the same proposal that the Christian People's Party has, and I would essentially recommend both the Workers' Party and SV to listen more to the Center Party at that point forward than they have done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e657	If the Christian People's Party received the exact proposal for the tax profile that they want, and that is what we are supposed to do in this budget, I wonder: does the Christian People's Party have any visions at all for a fairer tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e662	Yes, we do. But I don't want to confuse justice with skinning those who create values in this country, which I have the impression that some other representatives have as a kind of definition of a proper distributive tax profile. Just as little as the Center Party believes that capital that is in the company should be taxed on wealth, just as little Christian People's Party believes it. It's precisely because we want to contribute to an up-to-date business. People who want to bet will be rewarded for it and not punished. They shall not hear that what they contribute to the Norwegian community is almost nothing, except that they avoid taxation, as the representative Holmås on repeated occasions tends to stamp these.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e668	I have always seen the Christian People's Party as a party that stands for a fairer distribution, a party that cares for the one who is the strong, and the one who is the weak. If the representative Syversen had had today's tax haven and had not been able to claw here and there with opposition money, but had actually had to relate to the pot that exists today, he and the Christian People's Party would have thought that it was better to get a fairer distribution, or would they maintain their position in relation to the property tax and the 80 p.m. rule – that the richest should not contribute more – and take away from those who have the lowest wealth?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e675	I would like to say that in the case of people who may be taxing up to 80 pst. of their income, it cannot be said that they do not contribute to the tax system in Norway. I think most people would disagree with that as a definition. Otherwise I just get to say that from the Christian People's Party there are several starting points for what a good tax policy is. Of course, it is necessary to collect income into the country in order to be able to re-use it in the community. We need a fairly good distribution, I fully agree. But we're also going to make sure that a tax policy that helps us to have a business life in this country, that there are people who are willing to invest their own capital in building jobs and making sure that others thus get into employment. There is a perspective that I would wish the present government and government parties had had a little more in mind than the case is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e682	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e685	The government has provided a government budget for more cushioning, higher government investment, more private savings and more well-being. It's the Center Party satisfied with that. Over the last few weeks, the government has also delivered good responses in time to municipalities, banks and export industries. We now see that the budget, despite the fact that it was weakly expansive when it was presented, may not take into account to a large extent the economic challenges we face, for example. increasing unemployment. And when assumptions change, the government adjusts the rate. This is why the Government has announced a so-called crisis package in the New Year, with further fiscal measures. I think that's very wise. There is a lot of evidence to suggest that it might be a good idea to think a little bit about before you panic billions of dollars out to have something to do in a TV debate, or for that matter in this big debate. Competitive, thoughtful instruments based on new predictions, assembled in a large package well one month after Christmas Eve, sound to me like a good thaima plan. As a youth politician in the Senterung case, I have been working for a long time to strengthen the BSU scheme. Therefore, I am now pleased that the Government is taking an important step in the right direction by increasing the annual savings amount to NOK 20 000 and the total savings amount from NOK 100000 to NOK 150000. Savings limits have remained silent for years, through changing governments, changing business cycles and not least through a raging price gap in the housing market. Today, we have a situation where it has become significantly more difficult for first-time borrowers to obtain loans, and where the general economic situation requires us to save more. I would say that this increase is coming in the count's time. As regards changes in tax policy, the Senterpartie believes that principles of good taxation apply in time rises as well as in times of decline. A change in taxes towards more equalization is just as right now as it was one or five years ago. A tax system that needs to be changed in times of decline because it is poorly anchored in principle creates instability and uncertainty. That's not what we want. Therefore, the principles and the grips are established. However, when the government presents a package of measures in the new year, we need to consider all possible measures, including targeted changes in tax pressures based on what will be most accurate in order to achieve both increased employment and low interest rates. In this context, the Centre Party is aware that general tax relief for individuals to stimulate increased consumption will not be a very accurate instrument. In the context of the State budget, there has been a debate on the value added of commercial real estate. In this context, the Center Party believes that there are especially two points that it is important to note. Firstly, the current system of asset valuation of leased-out commercial property gives strong incentives to prioritize such investment over shares or deposits. The Centre Party considers that the principle of taxation according to its ability should be applied. We therefore believe that commercial property that generates rental income gives the ability to pay that defends an average equation value that is higher than today's and thus that a realignment of these equation values is correct. Secondly, the proposition states that the Ministry will design a new template method for the valuation of non-renting commercial real estate. In addition, a general adjustment of the equivalency of such property shall be laid down by regulation. In this context, the Centre Party considers that it is essential to carefully review the criteria and assess how regulations and templates should be designed to ensure the soundness of business and to avoid over-taxation of means of production that do not provide job-free income. With this draft budget, the Government is also doing some important regional policy action, which is absolutely crucial for us in the Central Party. I would like to highlight some measures: firstly, the fishing deduction has been increased to 150 000, i.e. a total of 70 000 kroner in one year. This strengthens the competitiveness of fishing vessels in terms of labour compared to, for example: the offshore industry and must be seen in the context of the changes made to the net pay scheme. Secondly, coastal municipalities are given increased income opportunities as they are given the opportunity to print property taxes on farms. The central party believes that it is important that municipalities are given the opportunity to be left with some of the value creation that occurs when their natural resources are exploited, and we see that this can provide important revenues for many district municipalities. Thirdly, we have now reversed the unintended consequences of a change in capitalisation rate for the output of property taxes on hydropower plants. I think that has given the night sleep back to a number of advisers and rapporteurs around. Overall, the government has provided a government budget for more cushioning, higher government investment, more private savings and more well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e711	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e714	The representative pointed out that there are uncertain times, there is a financial crisis. I record that the Government has been busy with – and is now working on – an action package. We know that a lot of companies are struggling a day. We're told that every single day, and now we see that a lot of smaller companies have problems. And especially in District Norway – where these businesses are in many places the big job – it could have quite fatal consequences if the corner stone company or others had major problems. In the work that the Government is now doing with the package of measures, I wonder if the Centre Party has clear demands, clear ideas and a clear direction of what would make sense as a handshake to the companies in Norway, and if not tax relief to the companies will be something the Centre Party is concerned about in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e721	As I said in my post, taxation is one of the instruments that the Central Party and the Government will assess in such a context. What is important is that we now look at the economic situation, how things develop, and ensure that the instruments implemented are based on the new forecasts and are as accurate as possible in order to achieve the objectives that are most important to the Government, namely that interest rates should continue to fall — at least not rise — and that employment should increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e726	I understood that the representative Grønhovd is looking forward to the action package in winter, there are probably many who do. Then I also noticed that the representative is talking about it should contain targeted changes in the tax burden. There is one of the same thing that the Central Party's permanent representative, Per Olaf Lundtägen, said in the financial debate on Thursday: ‘In today’s situation a lot has changed, so detailed legislation for the calculation of wealth and inheritance tax must take into account the fact, in order to ensure the soundness of business.’ But we are now adopting the detailed legislation on wealth and inheritance tax. That is why my question is to the representative, and to the centre party – and I expect the representative to agree with Lundtägen in this: Is it only the centre party that believes this, or is this idea that has been shared, for example. State Council Halvorsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e736	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as I mentioned in my post, a template method for the design of the property value of non-rented commercial real estate is now to be designed, which is of great importance for the appearance of this image. In addition, a regulation shall be drawn up in the Directorate of Taxation. This is crucial for what will result from these changes – I think we both are very aware of that. The centre party is very interested in looking at the consequences and carefully assessing the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e741	I think the representative Grønhovd made a very good statement and explained that there could be time for adjustments also within the tax and tax arrangements when the crisis package comes in a few months. There was basically a lot of good center policy in what the representative presented to Groenhovd. So in the good spirit, I will challenge the representative on the following: If she were to give advice to the Government on what to do about targeted tax reliefs to business, what would be at the top of her and the Central Party's priority list?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e748	I think asking a 19-day senior alternate on advice on how to deal with the financial crisis may not be the best choice. I think there are experts in the Ministry of Finance who are more able to assess it than I am. I believe that the representatives of the Centre Party, the Working Party and the SV will try to find the best possible solutions to the challenges that are when the forecasts are clear, and when we have a little more knowledge of what we are going to decide about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e756	I understand that it is not as easy to be thrown into a tax debate, which is one of the most difficult and complex things that Odelstinget deals with. But I think the representative is doing very well. I have also noticed that her parliamentary leader on the back bench is also very pleased so far! But it's also true that the Center Party, at its vote, is absolutely essential that we get a tax tightening on equity in corporations, and not the opposite. It's a little bit unclear what the Center Party really stands for. For example, the head of the Business Committee, Ola Borten Moe, after the state budget was discussed here in the Chamber on Thursday, and before we have to decide on tax issues, said that it is necessary to stimulate the equity situation and tax relief in Norwegian companies, which can promote investment and conversion in a more environmentally friendly way – that is, the opposite of what we are doing now. There's evidence that the Center Party is not entirely satisfied with the situation, or not fully aware of what they want. Is it so that it's kind of the business center party that is now fighting the red center party, and that it's the red one that's currently winning?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e763	I think I should refer to something else Ola Borten Moe said in the same interview. Then he said it was stupid to throw billions out to the east and west, before one had weighed out how to spend this money, and how they should be as targeted as possible. That line is very much inundated with the Central Party. I do not have a great need to comment on what he has thought about taxes and charges in addition to that, except what I said in my post that taxes and charges are some of the instruments we work with when the package of measures comes in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e770	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e773	There are two things in particular that disappoint me with the tax system that is now getting a majority. One is that the Government in this situation, with almost targeted precision, adopts tax incentives for business in general and for owners and investors in small businesses in particular. The second is that the Government does not show any real willingness to transform the tax system in a more environmentally friendly direction. Is there a time when it would be right to implement a much more powerful conversion from red to green tax, it is right now. When you wind up the 80 percent rule, it's a targeted attack on those who want to own in Norwegian business. When tightening the rules in the exemption model, it is also a targeted attack on those who have shares, and who thus own Norwegian companies. The same is true of the sharps in the valuation of commercial property and the changes in the valuation of shares in the inheritance tax. At a time when most arrows are pointing down steeply for businesses, this is completely wrong. Then I have to be allowed to address the Center Party one more time, because the party never ceases to surprise me. In the few days that have now passed since the Stortinget dealt with the state budget on Thursday and until the Odelstingen tax treatment today, the head of the business committee, the Centre’s Ola Borten Moe, manages to address both fiscal measures, which stimulate the equity situation in Norwegian enterprises, and tax incentives that can promote investment and conversion in a more environmentally friendly way. So if there was a real will in the Center Party to do exactly what Ola Borten Moe here says, it's just to vote with the Left and the rest of the opposition today, it's going to be a majority of too many good suggestions, which he's just talking about in that interview. So it's the center party that's here on the scale of what's now affecting the smallest businesses on the tax side, in a situation where they need to clapping on the shoulder and support. Of the good proposals that they could vote for, and thus contribute to the creation of a majority, we are talking about increased depreciation rates. We propose to change the depreciation rates in a more environmentally friendly way. We are proposing our own tax incentive scheme for long-term investment in new businesses. We propose a separate minimum deduction for self-employed workers, half of the employer's fee for apprentices and increased rates in the TaxFUNN scheme. Everything is aimed at creating new, sustainable jobs and is a completely different way of thinking about the importance of taking care of businesses and business owners, than the Centre Party and the other government parties show with their voting today – that is, doing something quite different than what the Centre Party says. In addition, the vast majority of the Government’s own proposals for tightening up are precisely the opposite of stimulating the equity situation in business. If we add the credit, the government proposes a tax shift in a more environmentally friendly direction of a total of 45 million. kr. It's, to use a word the Minister of Finance often uses, pinglets. It's sad that the government doesn't use this situation for a much stronger conversion. I also saw that in the SV's so-called government opinion, or claim for its own government after the election of the next harvest, which was presented yesterday, an environmentally friendly tax change was not mentioned in a word. The more confusing it becomes when Minister of Environment Erik Solheim asks his own Minister of Finance to learn from the EU crisis package, where precisely an important ingredient is to stimulate the economy through environmentally friendly instruments, not least through the tax system. I'm worried that the government in this situation, during a financial crisis, an emerging unemployment crisis and, for the rest, a crisis in the Norwegian economy, forgets the climate crisis, which, after all, may be one of the most important things we'll be working on in the future. In the alternative budget of the Left, the Left proposes a red to green tax conversion of approximately DKK 3 billion, because it is worth converting into more environmentally friendly behaviour. In addition, we propose a number of targeted tax incentives to stimulate jobs and jobs. The left also proposes a shift in the VAT system, where fruit and greens get low VAT, shower and related products full VAT, and the food tax is raised by 1 percentage point. We believe this is a much more targeted scheme than the Government's proposal to increase taxes on non-alcoholic beverages, which have a number of strange outcomes. I have recorded that this debate has also been so much about the expectations of the budget review that will come already in the new year, as the government, after I understand what has been said in this debate, needs Christmas and the next weeks to think about what should be included. It again creates the impression of a tax debate that is not entirely real, in the sense that we may soon face changes. Finally, I refer to the suggestions made by the Left in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e794	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e799	I'm going to give Lars Sponheim and Left that they're proposing a fairly comprehensive conversion, from red to green tax – what many of us call green tax exchange. Like the government parties, Sponheim is committed to using the opportunity to convert the economy into a more sustainable, greener economy in the face of a financial crisis. But on the other hand, Sponheim and the Left are opposed to the proposals we have with regard to the inheritance tax and the property tax, which will therefore produce better effects in a distributive way. What I am concerned about is the reason for the resistance to the special conversion of the property tax and the inheritance tax in a fairer direction. Is it because there is now a danger in Norwegian business, a danger that businesses may perish? We must not attack the equity of companies, says Sponheim. But can he give me an indication of what is the difference between attacking company equity through property taxes and inheritance taxes and attacking environmental taxes? There are two sides to the same issue on the cost side of the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e806	Let me first say that the representative has understood very much when he says that the Left has a radical proposal for conversion from red to green tax. If you see it in the context of a very strong and good policy for innovation and businesses, combined with a priority of research, you understand that this is in a dynamic, green direction, as we need. Then there is no doubt that the distinction between direct taxes on equity in enterprises and taxes on the company's owners becomes artificial, because taxes on the company's owners lead to the company having to enter the companies in order to pay that tax. You don't have a choice. A red-green tax conversion is precisely based on the fact that corporate owners and businesses can opt out of a tax tightening in the wrong direction environmentally by having the right behaviour, thus maintaining a higher profit by making a right environmental decision. That's the whole point, making money on getting greener. That's the basic difference in thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e813	In the finance debate last week, the representative Sponheim answered me a question about whether he would eliminate free allowances for industry and the net pay system for seafarers, that he would be investing in research, development and education. I am absolutely sure that the representative Sponheim has thought very carefully about what to do in the crisis situation we will be in in 2009. That's why I thought it might be good for Stortinget to hear about what the education representative Sponheim thinks these thousands of melting shops, aluminium workers and seafarers are going to take in 2009, or what they're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e820	In any case, I know that there are a number of melting shop workers in Karmøy who are not very gentle a day. I don't think that's the representative Sponheim they're mad at. There is probably as much the representative of Klungland as before the 2005 elections, who said that it was easy to get politically determined prices for electricity to this industry, which meant that not only jobs were taken care of but new jobs were created. People like to be told the truth, and that's probably what creates anger all around. So it's right that the left goes in for a pretty cool conversion from red to green tax. Among other things, we say that everyone has to pay. No one shall have free CO2 allowances. Nearly half of the free CO2 allowances distributed go to gas power stations that today do not produce anything but make money to sell the same allowances to the rest of the world, which makes them produce CO2. It is a policy we deeply disagree with, and at least it does not provide jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e836	That I have traveled around and said that we are going to have certain political prizes is an untruth that cannot be contradicted. What I have said, on the other hand, is that we are going to make a regime for the industry that allows them to be competitive in the future as well. We work on that, even though it is very much facilitated in this case. The representative Sponheim was in a government that said they didn't want to. I understand that instead of long-term pain the industry can one do like Left, just cut right away and say that now you have to shut down. That would be the case if we had not been given a competitive quota regime, or we had not had a net pay regime. That's what I asked the representative Sponheim about. I understand that he does not want to answer, but I ask him again: what would these people do if the Left had got its budget through?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e843	Let me again underline that we had a significant debate before the 2005 elections on whether or not it was possible to have policy-making power prices in industry. The previous government said, as it was true, that the EEA agreement prevented us from doing so. Commercial agreements must be concluded between power sellers and power buyers. Then, among other things, he said: The representative of Klungland in several debates – I have quotes in my office – that just wait for a government change, and we will sort this out. The change of government came, and it has not been settled in it. In the meantime, commercial prices have increased significantly. This industry has lost sight of listening to the representative Klungland and others, in particular from the Workers' Party, rather than following the advice they received at the time. That's why we have some of the consequences that we're now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e849	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e852	It is well limited how much new I can manage to bring into the debate on the tax package for 2009, now that we are immediately approaching midnight. But I would like to have some comments and give a debated committee the opportunity to come up with the lines that they probably want to fix for me a late evening. Just a little comment about Karmøy. I have not seen that Hydro on Karmøy has justified the lack of initial investment in the power regime, but that it is the world market that has made that company and several other companies now face significant challenges in the future. For us, it is important that we be able to take two steps in relation to tax returns, and in four years we have taken considerable action in terms of fair distribution, and in terms of a more environmental tax policy. That is also what characterises this financial debate today. Let me take from what's about fair distribution, because my very clear opinion is that especially in times of crisis, it's incredibly important that people see that the tax burden is distributed according to ability. We have had many weaknesses in the Norwegian tax system. We've had a lot of holes that the richest could use, and it's important parts of the holes that are sealed by the changes that are now being proposed and that will be adopted later today. This applies in particular to the property tax and inheritance tax. To make a fair distribution, one must do so on the basis of the fact that particular capital and income from capital are distributed disorderlylyly among the Norwegian population. One may not only pursue distribution policies through income taxation. Those who really say it best are right in their own debate booklet, to which it is referred before today. It shows the weakness of operating distribution policies only through income taxes, because they themselves say that if you remove the entire wealth tax, as you can see from the Right, you will have zero-taxors to a significant extent, and it will be the richest that don't contribute. That, I think, challenges a fundamental position in Norwegian society, namely that burden-sharing should be applied to the distribution of benefits. Therefore, it is important to assume that we have adhered to what we said to the voters before the elections, namely that we should reintroduce the level of taxation in 2004. This tax regime does not increase taxation. This tax regime is redistributing, and in these years we have carried out a significant redistribution of property taxes. This means that 400,000 people who paid taxes on wealth in 2005 are now free to pay taxes on wealth. There are, to a large extent, pensioners – half of them are pensioners with paid-down houses and a few dollars in the bank. And that's 500,000 in addition to what's got lower taxes on wealth. In plain text, it means that moderate bank deposits are now reduced in wealth taxes. We also implement an extension of the housing saving scheme for young people. That means that more people can save money in banks. There is no bad business policy at these times. It is important that people have money in the bank, because the banks lend this money to corporations that are not primarily struggling with poor equity coverage at these times, because they have increased their equity coverage very significantly, but they are struggling to get loans. So these savings – to ordinary people and ordinary pensioners – are working capital. They're not in a vault in the bank floor. They're going to borrow out, and now they can help strengthen their activity. We lower the maximum value limit for commercial property from 80 pst. to 60 pst. of market value. It provides a lower taxes on wealth for new buildings. It is important to note that new buildings are normally valued up to the maximum limit of the day, typically 70–75 pst. of market value. Isolatedly, it draws in the direction that we dampen, but not reinforce the decline in construction activity. So it is a structural policy approach that is also well adapted to this situation. We remove the 80 pst. rule, and in 2006 the 80 pst. rule gave a discount on tax of over 800 million. kr. Half of this taxet went to the hundreds of most wealthy people in Norway. So it's a very good and targeted distribution policy to remove the 80 pst rule, and I'm absolutely sure that many have had no understanding of why it was there, and it's important to remove it. In the case of the inheritance tax, there is also a significant redistribution grip. I think that very many of the debaters in the hall forget all the small entrepreneurs who will enjoy and be among the 90-95 pst. which receives a reduction in the inheritance tax. When we have at the same time ensured the extension of the interest-free deduction scheme from seven to twelve years, that means 0.8 pst. on the basis of the inheritance tax can be paid annually, and most people will deal with it quite well in relation to their situation. The State budget also contains a number of other measures that are positive for business, such as: we introduce a separate depreciation rate for technical installations in buildings. It's about, for example, on lifts or other measures essential for the accessibility of persons with reduced mobility. These may include important environmental investments, such as ventilation, sanitary facilities, etc. These are schemes that industry has requested and, in the current situation, encourage the type of investment that will also have a positive impact on the labour market. Together with a lot of important measures on the expenditure side, the profile of industry is good in this approach, and as I was at the outset, the equity situation in Norwegian business has greatly improved over the last few years. It is more focused on what is today's situation and the challenges for business, ensuring that the measures we are going to take are involved in giving small and large enterprises more jobs and the ability to dispose of services or goods. That is why the state budget now presented contains many measures for that very purpose, because it is not the public sector that cleans up school buildings. Nor is it the public sector that raises swimming pools or church buildings. It is the small and medium-sized – and perhaps also large – private enterprises around the whole country that are doing, and that is where their main challenge is going to be far greater in the future than on the equity side. Then to the environmental profile. We have made significant changes in green taxes for several rounds, but in particular in terms of the purchase of a car. Through the grips we have made with changes to the one-off charge on the car, there will be significant changes in the way the car park is put together in the future. It is the kind of change that a tiny part of the EU crisis package contains. It's good to talk nice about a small part of the EU's thought crisis package, and we'll see how it works. But it is very important to use the tax system in such a way that a demand for the most environmentally friendly technology, because in a country like Norway, many, no matter how much we wager on rail and public transport, are going to depend on a private car. So to the level of taxation: we have therefore adhered to the level of taxation we implemented in 2004. Now there is a lot of speculation about what a possible package of measures contains over the New Year. In this context, I have said that I do not exclude that you also look at taxes. I exclude, of course, that we change the distribution profile in the budget, and that we do something about the property tax or inheritance tax, but we cannot rule out that there may be tax penalties that need to be assessed. As the situation looks today, I see a lot more proposals within what will focus on budgetary appropriations, and which will immediately have an employment effect on those sectors that are most vulnerable to the transition from a high economic cycle to a low economic cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e887	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e890	As the Minister of Finance was in it, we are now going into a low economic cycle, and we are also going into uncertain times. This means that many people will be afraid of the future, and private consumption will be reduced, including those who have jobs and perhaps have nothing to fear. The Minister of Finance has called for one to shop for more. Instead, the party of progress and the bourgeois parties have proposed tax havens, so that one stimulates private consumption, and thus does not get such a hard landing as one else could risk. There are 22,000 people in the trading community who are at risk of losing their jobs. Prime Minister Gordon Brown has also called for global tax cuts to prevent global recession. Is the Minister of Finance in agreement – in principle – that tax and tax evasion is an own instrument to dampen the bad times and prevent mass redundancies within the trading world?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e897	I would very much like to take this opportunity once again to say that I have never encouraged people to go crazy in any store, either in high economics or in low economics. I don't, and I don't think we should, what to say, shop out of a crisis. But I've been busy giving it the signal to people who are not going to be directly affected by the effects of the financial crisis. That's going to be a lot, for example. all pensioners who know what they're going to get in retirement next year, most employees in the country and municipality and very many of the employees in the private sector. If they also begin to act as if the most important thing they can do in life is to save, the effects of the crisis may be much greater. So I didn't encourage anyone to be crazy. Extensive tax payments can increase private consumption. We've had a lot more focus on getting interest rates down, so people have it as predictability compared to the investments in the nearest one.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e904	The Central Bank Governor has today held a press conference and talks on financial stability. It was quite clear from his submissions that he still assessed the stability we now have, as it were. One of the factors that he drew out, which could disrupt financial stability, is lower profitability and fall in prices of commercial property, because it can contribute to significantly increasing bank losses. After all, we've discussed the government's tax increases on commercial property. The Council of State agrees or disagrees with the Governor of the Central Bank to reduce the profitability of commercial real estate, such as: in the case of higher taxes on wealth, can contribute to the disruption of financial stability?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e911	That's not what the governor said. He did not comment on anything in relation to the tax proposals contained in the Government's budget. An impairment of commercial property will also be – what to say – a starting point for the calculation of the property tax, but on commercial property we have had a significant overinvestment. Many in industry have been concerned that the tax system and the valuation of industrial property in real estate taxes have led to overinvestment in industrial buildings. It is likely that there is a co-explanatory cause of an impairment of commercial buildings. The change in structural policy contained in the proposal for a property tax adopted later in the Grand Duchy today is very sensible, precisely in order to stabilise investment in commercial real estate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e916	Some people have noticed a certain slip over the last few weeks in – what to say – the resistance in SV to looking at the level of taxes and charges associated with a package of measures. Among other things, Vice President Lysbaken has gone from being a tough opponent to any proposal in that direction to adjust the course to be not completely reprehensible, among other things. at yesterday's press conference with Mr. Holmås. My question is: if the Minister of Finance wants to look at tax changes to counteract a stronger economic downturn than is necessary and to save jobs, what does he think will be most effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e923	The representative of the Seven can ask, but he won't get any answers. Of course, it's because what I've said and expressed first of all is that we're in a crisis. It's got a lot faster than the many people who have followed this, so a year ago. This means that no instruments can be rejected, nor fiscal instruments. After all, we have been for tax credits too many, especially for those who have the lowest income. We've also re-distributed green taxes and taxes on labour to get the right structures. It is completely wrong to say that we are in principle against tax laws. But we are in principle for a fair distribution policy. What I can say is that the proposals on taxes on wealth and inheritance are solid. However, unlike others in this room who are too tax-free almost whatever happens, I will not exclude, although I support the level of taxation we have today, that it can also exceptionally be possible to assess fiscal instruments in any measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e932	Since I cannot expect an answer on a crisis package, I will be able to use one minute to advise on the content of such a crisis package if Norwegian companies are roughly divided into two categories, one of which produces a domestic market and demand, and the other produces export markets – roughly 50–50. Norway has the highest share of Europe in export markets. The Minister of Finance can do much to stimulate demand for those targeting a domestic market. This applies to all public – sensible projects that can be managed. It's just to get started. They'll be supported. Hopefully this also applies to slightly increased private demand as a result of falling interest rates, that we dare to behave normally. The important thing, in my opinion, is to concentrate on what can be done to enable the export-oriented companies to be able to stay so smoothly in difficult times. It may mean targeted tax credits that allow employees to remain in the transition process they must undergo. A good example can be the metallurgical industry, which produces aluminium parts for cars, where the market is now falling. For example, this industry should: have incentives to move to the renewable sector, which continues to grow in a crisis world. Could there be a way for the Minister of Finance to stimulate — perhaps with targeted tax resources for these businesses as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e942	I would like to receive input – perhaps especially the input that can point towards some other markets than the many companies so far have been targeted. This is because we need to combine the measures we are now taking to prevent the crisis that is fastest and most dramatic and to link the instruments with the long crisis, which is about the climate and the transitions that we have to undergo. I share the reality description with the representative Sponheim about what Business Norway looks like. It is difficult to go in and compensate for a demand failure in a world market that has been sky high and that is going to go down. So we're going to have big challenges in terms of conversion. One of the challenges for the actions undertaken is not just to try to maintain something that was, but to stimulate sustainable transitions in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e949	I think it is wise for the Minister of Finance to say that she will not reject any instruments in the package of measures, and that structural changes are also taken into account through reinvestment. Then I would like to ask her about the loan ban in the transitional arrangement for the shipping companies, not as an attempt at a rematch. But at this time when we are looking for loans and guarantees, and where the Storting has granted new models for more, we know that Norwegian shipping companies have a balance sheet of NOK 20 billion, which, partly because of the complications around the environmental component, cannot be used as equity because of the ban on loans and guarantees. Does the Minister of Finance, if she thinks quite openly, look at changes there temporarily, so that the money could have been spent constructively?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e958	No, I don't want to give any indication that there will be any changes in the structure you've set up in relation to the shipping tax, especially because we've worked a lot to get a head start on environmental investment, because it's an environmental fund this is supposed to be. Environmental investment is to be stimulated. With regard to how this is done, I believe that the remarks received by the Ministry of Finance from some of the top professionals in this field at the Norwegian School of Commerce in Bergen show that this is fully feasible for shipping companies. There is a possibility for shipping companies to make important environmental investments for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e965	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e968	The Søderberg technology in aluminium production is on its way out, the authorities have said. It pollutes too much. Then the industry has two choices. Either you develop a technology that cleans the emissions, or you put it down. Elkem took for approx. ten years ago, contacting Hydro and saying that they would develop a technology for the Søderberg electrodes. Hydro wasn't interested in it. As a result, Elkem can now continue to operate until at least 2021, while Hydro Årdal and Hydro Karmøy have been forced to shut down. I actually thought that was exactly the policy Sponheim was so hard on, that he now sees the outcome of the past in Haugesund. I have to say that I feel pretty bad at heart when the same representative and the party that is going to shut down that industry in Norway, goes up and takes a line on the finance minister about exactly the industry that produces car parts and aluminium. So he was in a government that wasn't interested in allocating energy to these companies at competitive prices. But my good colleague from SV, Magnar Lund Bergo, said it so strikingly earlier this fall: the right side knows only one medicine. If things are bad, they must have tax havens. And if you're doing well, they're gonna have tax havens. That's, of course, a very correct and good statement. We see it in the debate today, and we saw that the previous right-wing-dominant Bondevik government made tax cuts its main investment. It stopped the Norwegian people and we at the previous elections, because we needed the money in the care of the elderly, in school, in the hospitals, in the psychiatry, to roads and food development, to mention some areas. We now have tens of billions more available than the previous government had, because we and the Norwegian people made a choice. We chose the Norwegian welfare, the school, the care of the elderly, the library, roads and everything else. It's about taking on a shared responsibility. As government parties, we want to pay for this security together. We do that through a common tax system – according to our ability. That's the Norwegian model. Some of the tax notes on the right are also good examples of the other difference between the right and us, about the political goal of balancing differences, or of increasing the differences. Balancing differences is a demanding task, for there are so many and so powerful forces in society that contribute to the increase in differences. Going up the stock exchange, the rich get richer, it goes down, the rich get less rich. Without exception, however, it is always those who face poverty, who suffer the most, and it is those who need the community. The right-hand parties choose the community away from their tax havens, they don't talk much about it. But that's exactly why it's important that we have a policy that aims to reduce the differences. I have to say that I am in principle opposed to tax credits, because tax credits give less money to the community. But if you're going to give tax relief first, you're going to make even this wrong right hand side, because they're doing it an unsocial way. They give great relief to those who have the most, and to those who are the richest in Norway. Both the Right and the Advance Party will abolish the property tax. Both parties have it programmed. The property tax is a tax that gives billions of dollars to the community and of which the richest pay large parts. If you're going to give tax bills first, it's very unsocial to remove a tax that, on average, gives $50,000 in tax bills to those who make over $1 million, and $500 to those who make $10,000. It's actually a hundred times unsocial.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e983	I had looked forward to this debate today. Since I'm in the nutrition committee, I have a lot of good contact with the business community, and I get a number of messages from the business community of different character. There is no hiding that in the last few months, or throughout the autumn, there have been concerns. I was actually going to start this debate by saying that it's been an interesting debate – because it tends to say when you get a little bit out of hand – but I'm not going to say that. I'm going to say that this has been a frightening debate. It has been frightening to register the defence of the red-green politicians for the budget that the Government has presented. That budget was created in a completely different economic reality from that of Norway, the Norwegian people, the Norwegian business community and the world are facing today. It has been quite special to record red-green defences in order to increase inheritance tax, increase property tax and increase taxes and taxes on business in particular. It is probably good for SV to take business, but that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are hanging on this path, I have to say, amazes me a lot. Then it comes to the conclusion that in January/February there will be a crisis package. Why wait so long to bring a package, when the crisis is here now? Is it because you have to see even more businesses go over the top? Is it to see even more people in unemployment queues before action is taken? I'm glad the government has brought some crisis packages so far. It's a little step in the right direction. I also record that the Prime Minister has now begun to travel around and visit a number of companies that have major financial problems and have gone to cancellations and leave. I think the Prime Minister should be commended for that, because I think it is right that the Prime Minister travels around and sees the consequences of his own policy. I also hope that several government councils and other red-green representatives in this room and elsewhere will travel around to bring what is happening. Because when you hear the debate that's been here in the hall, I'm really just asking that question if you actually got what's going on in the real world. It's almost like the red-greens run an economic game and a game of great values, where you put the destiny of thousands of workers in play, to come and save them once in the New Year if it pleases them. The fact that tax incentives have been introduced for business is, in fact, quite difficult to understand when you see the clear and unambiguous signals of an overall business life. When we had a hearing in the Business Committee on the State Budget a few months ago, and it was a long time before the financial crisis had hit with the weight that it has now done, they were quite unambiguous and clear the feedback we received: No tax cuts now! It can't stand Norwegian business. It didn't bother the red-greens, and they didn't use the opportunity to fix it either. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e998	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1001	The centre party wants to increase the production of renewable energy. It is important to ensure renewable energy to cover own consumption and, in the long term, a target for Norway to be a net contributor of renewable energy to Europe. There will be a proper strategy for a country that aims to contribute significantly to climate change, and there will be opportunities in terms of jobs and competences in a field that will become increasingly important in the years ahead. Water power has meant a great deal to Norway, both in terms of industrial travel and jobs, but also, of course, in terms of domestic and domestic electricity and the standard of living for the individual. Now this force is especially valuable in the context of the environment. Norway has developed a lot of hydropower, but still has a great untapped potential, much of it in the form of small power plants and in the form of upgrading and development of existing power plants. The government is now proposing to remove or adversely affect the design of several tax provisions for power stations that may have a negative impact on investment in upgrading and development projects. The Government proposes legislative changes that result in the extension of the use of the disposable negative interest income associated with the implementation of the upgrading and development project. This measure will improve incentives to exploit the potential of already developed watercourses optimally introduce a general scheme for the annual payment of the tax value of negative basic interest income fixed technical installations in construction – let me also mention it – will be distinguished as a separate balancing group and the depreciation rate will be raised from 2 pst. to 10 pst. This will provide time-bound environmental investment in various activities Last but not least: from the revenue year 2008 onwards, a base rate of interest shall not be calculated for electricity plants below 5500 kVA. In the revised 2008 national budget, the Government proposed to reduce the lower limit on the obligation to calculate the basic interest income to 5500 kVA for new power plants. The proposal means that the lower limit of the basic interest income is now the same for new ones as for existing power plants. For many power producers, these are important changes that are decisive to whether or not they are able to realise important investments. The centre party is pleased that these changes are now in place, so that efforts for the production of more renewable energy can be reinforced further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1022	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 110]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1038	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given with comments from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1047	On behalf of the President-in-Office, Ola Borten Moe, who is in Lagtinget, I am delighted to present the Innst. O. No 10 of the Food and Agriculture Committee. The most important thing in the legislative proposition promoted by the Government is undoubtedly the proposal that the seafarer's labour and living conditions should now be monitored. It implies the establishment of a regulatory regime for ships over 500 tonnes in international traffic between two ports. Ships shall now hold a separate certificate demonstrating that the flag State has approved the on-board working and living conditions in line with the requirements of ILO Convention No. 186, which Norway is now ratifying. As a rule, companies have employers' responsibility for their seafarers. But there are also examples that the shipping companies have hired other companies that run the ships. The employer’s responsibility lies with the company in question. It has occurred that the company concerned has not fulfilled its obligations vis-à-vis seafarers employed. The proposed amendments to the Seafarer’s Act mean that the shipping company is now responsible for ensuring seafarers’ rights when this responsibility is not fulfilled by the seafarer’s employer. It is also important to establish a statutory right of complaint for seafarers, if they feel that regulations or statutory rights are not fulfilled. The complaint shall, as a rule, be addressed to the shipping company, but access to the complaint is now open to the supervisory authority. The shipping company also has a duty to investigate the complaints and to establish a genuine review procedure. The legislative changes, and especially the supervisory regime, also have a cost side. The Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs receives an additional load corresponding to 3,5 annual works. The industry will have an additional cost of 25 million. kr for the new maritime labour and living conditions certificates. In my view, it is essential, and in line with the content of the Convention, that the Maritime Act be extended to foreign ships when they are in Norwegian waters, in Norwegian economic zone and on the continental shelf. One of the main points of ILO Convention No. 186 is to balance the working and living conditions of seafarers worldwide and prevent social dumping in international shipping. Now there's a piece left, but it's important that big shipping nations go ahead. I think it is good that Liberia and the Bahamas, traditionally referred to as countries with flags of convenience, have already ratified the Convention and that the EU is now following. The Convention and the laws we adopt today come into force 12 months after 30 states with one third of the world fleet have ratified the agreement. In view of the time of this debate and in the hope of not provoking the opposition, I intend to send the rest of my contribution directly to the press – of course with a copy to the mariner organisations!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1068	I'm not going to make a long debate about this. Let me just say first that our starting point is that it is unfortunate for the industry's conditions of competition if special rules are introduced. Then it's part of what's suggested by the Government that we're going to go against and promote our own proposals, because we feel that it doesn't provide Norwegian shipping industry in a good way. As I explained in a previous debate in Stortinget today, we have received a number of input from organisations, as well as from individuals and industries that have raised a number of questions about this legislation, how clear the legislation is, and how it will turn out. I just want to refer to the comments made in the vote, and address the proposals of the Progress Party either on its own or on the basis of other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1081	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to. This may indicate that others have taken note of the advice of the representative of Gullvåg. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 133]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1099	I have not intended to provoke the representative of Gullvåg to a long debate, but as the rapporteur on the matter, I would just like to make a few comments. The Economic and Social Committee has examined Ot.prp. No 67 for 2007-2008, the implementation of an EU Directive allowing veterinarians from the EEA territory to use the title ‘veterinary’ in Norway without Norwegian authorisation for the provision of temporary services. It also gives animal health professionals the right to use the title ‘animal health professionals’ temporarily in Norway. The proposal also proposes that those who are to practise as animal health professionals in Norway be faced with a language requirement which will be further regulated in the regulations. Finally, a unanimous nutrition committee concludes that it is right to simplify legislation for workers in the EEA area so that personnel with the necessary qualifications do not encounter unnecessary obstacles in the exercise of their profession in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1110	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 137]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1118	The odelsting should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1126	During the debate, 40 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposed no. 1-3, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 4 and 5, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Proposals No. 6 and 7, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 8-10, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 11-14, by Gjermund Hageseter, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 15 and 16, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 17-22, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 23-25, from Svein Fleet on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 26, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 27–33, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, proposed no. 34–40, from Lars Sponheim on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1356	We are voting on the proposal No. 27-33, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1550	We shall then vote on proposal No. 26, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1595	We are voting on the proposal No. 23-25, from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1694	We shall now vote on the proposal No. 17-22, from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1866	We shall now vote on the proposal No. 15 and 16, from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e1920	We are voting on the proposal No. 11-14, from the Progress Party;
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e2013	We are voting on the proposal No. 8-10, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e2102	We shall vote on the proposal No. 6 and 7 from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e2178	We shall then vote on the proposal No. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e2291	We shall now vote on the proposal No. 1-3 from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e2411	The proposal for a decision, the letters A, C, D, F, G, H, I, J, L, M and Q, will then be contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e2979	We've reached N, which applies to the tax laws. The Committee had recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3670	We vote first of all on Paragraphs 10 to 37 of the Third Paragraphs, Paragraphs 10-71 and 14-26 and III, VIII and XI. The progress party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3686	We're going to vote over IV. The Progress Party, Right and Left have been notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3700	There will be a vote over V, §§ 1-2 third paragraph, 4-10 new third paragraph, 15-2 second paragraph, 17-10 and 17-11 and XII. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3714	So it's going to be over the rest of the Roman era and the paragraphs under N.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3724	There will now be a vote on B, which is due to inheritance fees and certain gifts. The Committee had recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3802	We're going to vote on Section 14 of the new sixth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3813	It's going to get so daunted over the rest of B. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3828	There is now a vote on E, which relates to property taxes to municipalities. The Committee had recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3874	There will be a vote on Section 4, new third paragraph, and II and III. The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3889	It gets so wet over the rest of the I.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3899	There's now going to be a vote over K, that's about to be done with the artist's taxes. The Committee had recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3929	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e3943	There will be a vote on O, which will apply to the tax-paying law. The Committee had recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4212	It shall be counted against II. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4227	So I, III, IV and V are going to add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4237	There's now going to be a vote over P, which is going to apply to the tax laws. The Committee had recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4278	It's going to be over I first. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4293	So it's going to be over II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4303	It's going to be a lot of money on R, which is going to be a property tax for the municipalities. The Committee had recommended that:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4331	It's getting wet over I and II. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4346	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4357	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4365	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposal No. 2, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right proposal No. 3, from Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4808	It is first argued over in the second paragraph of Section 1. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4823	It will now be replaced by the recommendation from the Committee for I, the first paragraph of Section 1A and the first paragraph of Section V and proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4849	It is then replaced by the recommendation from the Committee to I, the first paragraph of Section 50 A and the first paragraph of Section 59 and proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4874	So it's going to be over the rest of I and over II, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4884	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4894	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4989	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e4999	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-02-lower.ana.ud1611e5039	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
