ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e30	The representative Odd Einar Dørum, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e38	I am delighted to present proposals on behalf of the representatives of Tord Lien, Ingrid Skårmo, Ivar Kristiansen, Peter S. Gitmark and myself on a petroleum message.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e43	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning's meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. No objections have been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e61	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Advance Party 20 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the speaking time of the State Council, Anniken Huitfeldt, be up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e72	Over the three years the Government has been sitting, unemployment has been halved compared to the level under the previous government. It is the low unemployment and the security of income that is now threatened by an international financial crisis. If we prevent unemployment, we prevent poverty and pessimism. For SV, the most important issues are the fight against poverty and climate change. The budget for 2009 is an expansive one and will increase activity compared to the year’s budget. The budget ensures income and measures for many who fall out of the labour market or cannot be in the labour market. Action packages have been adopted to make banks function, to bring interest rates down, and to enable export companies to produce. Norway’s Bank has reduced interest rates twice and announced a new fall in interest rates. Now the banks have to follow. The local government bank has increased its lending by DKK 10-20 billion. GIEK has received an increase of DKK 50 billion, and the ship’s building loan guarantee scheme has been extended by DKK 8 billion. Innovation Norway’s loan framework is increased by DKK 1 billion – all in order to secure jobs and businesses across the country. In addition, the Government has announced a new action package for increasing unemployment over the New Year. The goal of everyone's work is the same now. It is therefore important for the Government to ensure that Nav uses the necessary means of action when the need now increases, so that the unemployed who will benefit from the measures do not go without it. That is why the majority is putting forward a proposal in the Chamber today on that, and I am addressing that proposal. The measures need to be really individualised, especially for those who need complex and longer runs in order to get and keep a job. If many others now need Nav’s assistance, the pressure to provide quality measures to those in need of comprehensive assistance must not be stepped down. As critical as the prospects for the future can be, it is completely incomprehensible that the Right and Left feel that it is right to cut in action places now. That's wrong. The qualification programme has started slower than we wanted, but some municipalities, e.g. The horten, has reached the target numbers, has committed courage to cooperation with the organisation KREM, on non-traditional instruments, and has strong local support. They deserve to be praised in the same way as everyone else who is now working hard to get good deals for the disadvantaged. Attempts with unlimited wage subsidies are extended to 1 000 places, and I sincerely hope that it will provide opportunities for some of those who are insured and want to return to work. The Youth Guarantee will be extended and will be added to the existing Youth Guarantee for them under 20 years of age and the follow-up guarantee for them between 20 and 24 years of age will be continued. For young people, it is even more important to get into activity quickly and experience mastery and belief in the future. The Nav reform is correct and important, but large and difficult, both for users and employees. Now, it is of the utmost importance that the Government constantly and through the announced package of measures secures Nav enough and proper resources, and comes to Stortinget if there is a need for change, as happened in the autumn. When there is a need for more people to get help from Nav, and the queues on the phone and to get decisions and follow-up are long, it is with disbelief that I see that the Progress Party also this year cuts large sums to Nav and imposes great new tasks on them. In 2008, they thought that Nav needed about 0.5 billion dollars less to hire people and teach them, and for 2009 they haven't even dared to show them. The cops are big. It means that longer queues, fewer people get help, that problems for users and employees arise – a scheme for chaos for the unemployed, pensioners and employees, greeting the Progress Party. The government strengthens the action plan against poverty – very important – by SEK 1.2 billion in addition to the increase we have given before. Increase in social assistance and 300 million. for drug treatment is positive. Thanks to the organisations' own willingness to redeploy social security in the spring, the minimum pension has increased by NOK 16 000, and the government has added NOK 2.1 billion to the next year's social security bill. Then the minimum pension is 1.97 G, and in 2010 we reach the goal of 2 G. It is very important for those who live at the very lowest performances of popular security. They really need this money, because they have bad advice. As we also increase the housing allowance with an annual impact of more than DKK 1 billion, 40,000–50,000 more households will be entitled to housing support. That's important, because the bout poisons have increased a lot. When the labour market becomes tougher, it is more important than ever to ensure better protection for those most at risk of being pressured into accepting dangerous employment and underpayments. Therefore, SV is very satisfied with the measures taken by the Government against social dumping. Strengthened labour supervision, solidarity responsibility, simpler public service law, clean-up ID cards and regional protection agencies in the clean-up and hotel and restaurant industries will be effective measures. It's 50 million kittens. to the Labour Inspectorate. This means less control over the legality of employment and wages. It opens a door of loopholes for those who are operating illegally, so that they are able to make their way forward. It's probably unparliamentary, but I think it's a ballespark against honest and hard-working employees and businesses that will be on the right side of the law. Neither the Party for Progress, the Right or the Left supports new measures that could provide better protection for underpaid and dangerous workers, such as women and men. cleaners, maids and builders. Those who live with the most insecure and low wages will now find themselves competing for pay, they believe. It means falling into pay — and nothing else. But sails must have more in the pay bag. We heard that when we discussed salary here on Tuesday. They want bigger differences between themselves and most people, and there's SV disagree. Three important increases were made in our field during the examination of the Financial Committee. The grant to the Alone Parent's Association and the Debt Sacrifice Alliance increased by half a million dollars each. It is important for such organisations to be able to function well, especially in situations where more people may be afraid of difficulties and need help and advice. It's added 10 million. This is very important because in the field of drugs, the need for treatment, rehabilitation, housing and qualification is almost endless. It's added 3 million. kr for the start-up of tests on service dogs, a tool that can meet the important needs of people with disabilities. The government must note that this measure has unanimous support in the Storting, with the sole difference that the opposition will not go the path of experimentation but the right of establishment. SV is very happy that we're going to do this. In addition, during the Committee’s proceedings, we haveredisposed 6.3 million. have been put in place for reading lights and other visual aids to the PC for blind and visually impaired persons who are not in work or training. It is very important to ensure equality and the ability to obtain information and to communicate with others, for example: follow up your own children in school work. If you're blind and lose your job, it's very important not to get isolated. It's important for everyone not to be isolated, but perhaps even more important for those with a disability. Workplaces, accessibility and the environment must be the heading of the package of measures that the Government is now to present to prevent increased unemployment. The package must be arranged in such a way that we do not risk the interest rate flying up again. Then the win goes into the spin. There are enough tasks — in the maintenance and upgrading of schools and hospitals. There is also a need for more hands in care, care, drug treatment and child protection. We can get that if the municipalities get more money. Accessibility and universal design measures will provide many jobs and enable people with disabilities to use society in the same way as everyone else. It can provide many jobs and improve society. Investments in railway maintenance, energy saving in construction and renewable energy will provide jobs and save climate. But it's incredibly important that the measures we're taking now also contribute to the better distribution of benefits and burdens in society, and that we don't now address measures that make the differences between those who have work and those who don't have work get bigger, or that those who are well-trained and have safe jobs and good economics go away from those who live in uncertainty about income and work. I believe that the budget now presented is a very important step in the right direction, both in terms of distribution and ensuring greater activity in the public sector. I look forward to the package of measures that will be presented, so that we can have even stronger instruments in the difficult time we have ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e112	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to. The representative, Karin Andersen, is quite right in saying that the term she used, ‘ballespark’, is not parliamentary. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e119	Under the paragraph on Day-money on page 49 of the budget position, the Socialist Left Party notes that: ‘will point out that during the 2009 state budget work, it was clear that the economic cycle was turning around and that the financial crisis would have real economic consequences. This has been taken into account in the budget’. Now you're talking about packages to come. The SSB says that 100 000 unemployed will have to be reckoned with in the future, and that is after the package of measures for the financial sector and the package of measures for the export sector have arrived. We already see in 2008 that the company Notar has gone over. The squirrel steps down. And we haven't reached 2009 yet! Why aren't action packages included in the 2009 budget that can sort out the 2009 situation? Appropriations for daily allowances and labour market measures have not been raised. Does this mean that when there are 100,000 extra unemployed, you have to reduce the rates of daily allowances for the unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e129	No, it doesn't. The representative Svendsen may have noticed that there is a proposal at the representatives' table today, where we ask the Government to use more of the measures in Nav if it needs to be done early. There have been marked increases in unemployment, but for the time being we have not seen those figures. In fact, unemployment has not gone up very much yet, sail if there is anything. We want to give the government that space of action now. In addition, part of the package of measures adopted has not started to work and the Government has notified a new package of measures. But it's incredibly important that we spend that money right, so that there's jobs out there, that it doesn't just give better money to those who have a lot from before, and that those who lose the job and have little, are left without anything. We're very concerned about that. That's why we have to spend time on that package, so that we know that's the result we get from it, and not taxation for those who have the most, as the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e136	I'm not going to deny the representative Karin Andersen her genuine and honest commitment to poverty, but I want to point out what the editorial said in the Evening Post evening edition of December 3, i.e. two days ago: ‘While the two-year sleep station of the Salvation Army had 2000 registered users, by the end of 2008, the figure has doubled. On Friday last week, the queue outside the Fattighuset was about 40 meters long as the time for delivery of the food bags approached. Up to 450 people visit the house every day.» Is the representative Karin Andersen proud or disappointed with the results her own government has achieved during her reign by a majority alone? And why couldn't Karin Andersen support Røre's proposal for extra support to the Fattighuset?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e146	I'm glad of what we've done about poverty. It's been a lot, but it'll never be enough. What we've done now, and which has been absolutely necessary, we've done well because the pensioners' organizations were willing to redistribute social security this year. We've managed to raise all the lowest performances in the population, and to next year we reach 2 G. It is one of the most important things we can do to combat poverty. We are now also adding a large increase in the housing stock. 40,000–50,000 more households are receiving increased housing support. And yes, that's right, the queues are increasing outside the Salvation Army and the Church's Social Service. I think that many of them are pensioners who have too little, and that some of them have a poor salary, lone parents, for example, who we're raising the lowest benefits for now, and who can get more housing support. But I also think, unfortunately, there's someone there who's hesitating to go to Nav, because they feel that they're being badly treated. Those are the things we have to take the most seriously, for many of these people might have been entitled to assistance from Nav if they had gone there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e159	The chairperson of the Committee uses to have a strong commitment both to families and individuals facing major challenges in their everyday lives. That's what she's supposed to be for. In the budget, the Christian People's Party has focused on families with disabled children. In some cases, care needs are so high that parents have to help on a full-time basis, and care allowance is given. However, unlike most social security schemes, care does not follow the development of the basic amount of the population. If one is dependent on this over a long period of time, the amount is nominally unchanged. The Christian People's Party wants the care allowance to be indexed if the person has received it for more than 12 months. Does not the representative of this arrangement find it unsocial and do not these parents have a legitimate right to equal treatment with others in terms of G-regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e168	There's a lot of holes in the security network we have. The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund points to one group, families with highly disabled children. I think it is obvious that there is a need for better coordination, so that they do not have to coordinate the auxiliaries, but certainly also for better income protection schemes when they have to take on very heavy care tasks. There is now work going on in the Government, between the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, to look at schemes for these families in particular. But I'm going to bring with me the tape that the representative comes with. When we regulate everyone else equally, we have to look over the whole system, so there are at least no unwarranted differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e175	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e179	I would like to begin with a quote from the Right Commentary in the position of the Financial Committee: ‘These members refer to the 2009 government budget as the last one’. I guess it's a little early to make a statement. What we can agree on is that it's the last thing in this magnification period, but it's actually also true for the opposition. From that perspective, and with the obvious ambitions of the opposition parties for the 2009 elections, the alternative budget proposals are surprisingly fragmented, even in the budgetary position we are considering today. Where the opposition is most co-ordinated, in the list of everything they think the government hasn't. It is not petty: the budget is a little ambitious, it is poorly adapted to the challenges we face, we have three lost years in the fight against poverty behind us, etc. etc. Let's repeat a little bit: under the previous government, the number of poor people increased, the social cuts were carried out, and employee rights were tried to weaken in many areas. That was the price to pay for the so-called dynamic tax policy. As soon as this government took over, much was corrected, and the poverty rate increased considerably after three weeks. Half a billion then turned into 700 million. the following year. With 336 million. Last year and 1,249 billion for next year, there will be an increase of almost NOK 3 billion. Now the qualification programme is becoming nationwide, and social assistance rates are increasing again by 5 pst. real. The housing aid is extended to 50 pst. more and will be NOK 1.9 billion when it is completed. We have again had a historical social security settlement, where the minimum pensioners and young people were given a significant boost. The target is a minimum level of 2 G in 2010. The minimum benefits in temporary benefits are increased. Overall, we're talking about spending well over 2 billion kroner. The Youth Guarantee is reintroduced and Action Plan 2 with eight new measures to combat social dumping is in place. This is in addition to many larger and smaller measures in the areas of several departments. Labour market measures are maintained at a historically high level in relation to unemployment. The new Discrimination and Availability Act is being implemented together with a new Planning and Building Act, and an action plan for implementation is coming. The opposition, for its part, claims that the modernisation of the public sector has stopped. No, it doesn't, it's just taken on new forms. It's not very modern to cut into common resources to finance tax credits for the few. It doesn't work either, cf. The evening post today, where the Central Statistical Office says that 19 billion kroner in tax bills only provide 2,500 jobs. It is also not very modern to trample the municipalities financially, so that they too have to cut into important welfare. 28 billion I plus is much better and more modern. Nav reform, simplifications in social benefits andmeasures shall red tape and provide better services. It's quite modern, isn't it? The party of progress claims on its side that the number of poor people has risen sharply since the red-green government took over. I wonder what they're building such claims on. That there's 200,000 more at work? That there have been 20,000 fewer social assistance? That the number of annual works in municipalities has increased by 37 000? That almost 5,500 of the weakest people have started a qualification course that actually seems to work? The latest available income figures show that the income of the 10 pst. The richest grew up until 2005, to make a break down? That the income in the lower 10 pst. range showed a break upward from 2005? The opposition is relatively heard in its criticism of the Government and the poverty policy of the majority of the population. But where is the opposition's alternative action plan against poverty? We should be able to expect a visible and comprehensive alternative, right? But it's pretty hard to find. The government has not overtaken the financial crisis, it says, at the same time as, in particular, the Progress Party, but also, in part, the Right, serves the same old fiscal policy, although most others now believe that market liberalism is a fall. And the consequence is like before, unsocial cut. The promotion party cuts for safety is responsible for the entire qualifying aid, the training aid for lone dependants, while the right cutters in labour market measures, waiting wages and daily allowances. With the arrangement of the Progress Party, much of the position budget in Nav, action plan against social dumping, and 16 000 disability pensioners need to get jobs right over the New Year. Together with the Right, the Christian People's Party has terminated the IA Agreement with this budget, while the Left as Right Cuts in Action. They remove the net pay scheme for seafarers, increase the interest rate in the House Bank and tighten the car scheme for disabled persons. I'm sorry, but I'm not able to find the opposition's alternative poverty policy in the middle of all of this. For the poor and most of us, it is more likely that it will pay to bet on the plan of action and preparedness promoted by the Government, both to combat poverty and to meet the challenges that the downturn will face.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e203	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e206	I think it's interesting to listen to the reality that government parties have. I have two questions. The representative of Christoffersen refers to market liberalism and fiscal policy. At the G20 meeting, Gordon Brown went out quite crystal clear and said that we had to have a substantial tax relief package to get the economy back in place. In fact, what the G20 decided was to try to correct some of the market misregulations – not start limiting market mechanisms, but making mistakes. Question 1: Does Lise Christoffersen agree with Europe's perhaps largest social democrat, Gordon Brown? Question 2 refers to the proposal that the majority has now tabled in the Chamber. As I read the budget setting, this is the money that can be transferred. It has already been stated today that you can dispose of things as the government parties propose. Can Christoffersen clarify what is meant by implementing labour market measures at the right time? Does that mean that you don't do it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e217	Earlier this week I was at a large meeting in Madrid, the European Socialist Party's meeting, where a prepared manifesto was prepared for elections to the European Parliament next year. Gordon Brown was one of the architects behind that manifesto, and what it contains from A to Å is the proposal to regulate the market forces, precisely because market liberalism has played down. Gordon Brown may have spent some time thinking about it, but it was the clear and clear message from that meeting, and I was there myself. With regard to the proposal put forward in the Chamber, it is not just about being able to transfer money. The proposal now in the Chamber says to the Government: If unforeseen things happen, or the challenges grow faster than we have so far been able to predict, the Government can use the labour market measures at a higher rate than is foreseen, and in that case it will be filled with more money gradually. So that's part of the preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e224	Now it's nothing new that the representative Lise Christoffersen is brilliantly satisfied with the state of things. We're essentially starting to get pretty used to it. But I'll probably give it advice that for her and her party's part in the future it might be useful to set up a slightly different tone, because if this is going to be the record of the upcoming election campaign, I think that the constructed reality description that Lise Christoffersen serves is going to be in quite a contrast to what the voters actually see around them. One out of four persons in employment are still out of work in Norway. Is it so that the representative Lise Christoffersen really believes that today's budget takes into account the challenges we are now facing, and that it can in any way solve these challenges, with 700,000 people outside the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e231	It's probably a wrong opinion if the representative Engeset has the feeling that I'm brilliantly satisfied with the state of things. I am also able to see the dark clouds in the horizon. What's my point is that the description the opposition gives of lack of action and that nothing has happened is wrong, and of course we're still going to want to fix that. At the same time, we have said through the fact that we have announced that there will be additional crisis packages over the New Year, that we do not believe that today's budget is enough to meet the situation that is coming. But so far it's too early to say exactly what are the most targeted measures. The government follows the situation from day to day and provides targeted action in new packages.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e236	I think we're all concerned about what's now happening around the country, with the lay-offs and crews of big businesses like the Posten, Notar and Hydro on Karmøy. The availability is increasing, and new figures from the Central Statistical Office show that there may be 120 000 unemployed until next year. In such a situation, it is strange that the government can sit still and not immediately put in place a package of measures against unemployment, as the Christian People's Party suggested a month ago. We proposed increasing investment and maintenance in the transport sector, in the care sector and in the education sector, and targeting business investment by reducing depreciation rates. Isn't this close to what you expect to make up for next year? Why not give the municipalities, who have the plans ready – they are done too much of this – such a Christmas gift?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e245	Many of the types of measures the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund mentions are already in the state budget, for example. After all, we are now spending DKK 2.4 billion on the framework of the national transport plan in the transport sector. We know that 1 billion dollars invested in transportation is going to be approximately. 1 000 new jobs. As we have underlined earlier, the availability is currently at 1.8 pst. We don't know exactly where the time off is going to go. It's going to vary geographically around the country, and it's going to vary from industry to industry. So it is still too early to say that the fully targeted measures should be put in place right there and there. But the government, as I said, follows the situation carefully, and comes up with new measures when a person knows what action is required. And that's it, as said, a little too early to say yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e252	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e255	It is frightening to hear the representative Lise Christoffersen say here from the pulpit that one should wait for unemployment to take place instead of taking action before it strikes. The Progress Party in its 2009 alternative budget puts forward proposals and changes to the framework which aim to avoid mass unemployment as a result of the financial crisis and to get more sections of the population into work. This applies both to the part of the population that is in line for work, and not least to those who are currently receiving some form of public benefit. Having a job to go to, full or part time is a value in itself, which gives self-confidence, in addition to being an important social arena. This does not mean, of course, that those who are ill or those who cannot participate in the work must work. For the Progress Party, it is important that those who can work participate in the labour market with the labour force they have. The fact that as many as possible of those who can do so are at work makes it possible for those who cannot work to receive a social security from which it is possible to live. We're not going to do that without making any significant grip, and these grips unfortunately don't make the government. The draft budget that we are discussing today is fully drawn up before the financial crisis came to an end. The fact that one does not increase the appropriations for neither daily allowances nor labour market measures must mean that the Government believes that unemployment will not increase. Nor does the government initiate measures to stimulate the economy, such as increased appropriations for transport, lower taxes to people most in order to stimulate increased consumption, or additional resources for maintenance, renovation or new construction of municipal buildings. But it should be right: the government has come up with a few so-called packages, which the Progress Party has supported, but they have as a common denominator that they come when the problems have evolved into more than they should. And they're not designed to create increased activity domestically either. Since the 2009 budget has not been apprehended in terms of daily allowances or labour market measures, it must mean that the Government is planning to reduce the rates of those who are unemployed, which the Progress Party will strongly oppose. Or have the government parties not taken on board that there is actually a financial crisis going on, and that the enterprise after the enterprise reports permits and denunciations? In the draft budget of the Progress Party, more action is being taken to avoid more people leaving the labour market and to allow more people today out of the labour market to enter and do a job both for themselves and for society as a whole. The most important thing is to make sure that there are enough jobs in society. Unfortunately, this exercise has not been done by the government parties for those companies whose turnover is based on domestic demand. So far, the Government has not done anything for this group, which employs the deciduous majority of the workforce. This has led to a complete halt in the construction and marketing of dwellings, such as: led to the bankruptcy of Notar last week and the introduction of four working days per day. week at Ekorene's furniture factory yesterday. There are many measures that can be taken to get the wheels started. The main steps are to increase investment in areas that have been neglected for years by the majority in this room and to facilitate the improvement of the framework conditions for business and individuals. By lowering the level of taxation, we increase the demand for goods and services, which will lead to higher activity. In particular, this will have a good effect if it reaches those with medium or low income. Both the United States and several European countries are now launching tax packages to solve the problems, and there is no lack of good advice from Heads of State or Government. Last, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Gordon Brown, who comes from the Labour Party's sister party, Labour, advised Norway to lower taxes. Unfortunately, Stoltenberg has rejected this. But that's hope, because I read in the media that even SV smells at such solutions in times of crisis, and it can promise well. Unfortunately, it looks like the government is also sitting here on the fence waiting, which means that thousands of thousands are in danger of losing their jobs or getting a permit. Now is not the time to sit on the fence, the time for action. By increasing the appropriations for transport purposes, more people from the construction sector will be able to obtain work. This is an industry where, among other things. by the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs, it is announced that there will be a significant increase in unemployment as a result of the financial crisis. The imposition of such measures alone would result in a poor profit, but in this case it would be a matter of introducing measures that would cover a significant backlog that would have to be covered at a given time. This time is after the Progress Party's view. In addition to the short-term benefits, such a measure will help to strengthen Norwegian industry and competitiveness in the long term, including: due to a decrease in freight costs. Upgrading public buildings, for which there is a great need, will also provide both short-term and long-term benefits in the labour market. Yes, due to the condition of some buildings, it could also reduce sick leave in some municipalities. Through the promotion of the rapid treatment of sick people, both through healthcare treatment and through rehabilitation measures, a large amount of health money can be saved. There is no need for people to be sick over a long period of time because they have to wait for treatment when they can quickly return to work by receiving treatment. This will result in many of those who receive sick pay today being able to receive ordinary pay, which will mean a reduction in public expenditure on sick pay. Many who today receive disability benefits have no chance of returning to work, nor should they. Those who, on the other hand, have a residual ability to work, or who have fallen into disservice without wishing to do so themselves, will help the Progress Party return to work. This shall be done through training, work trials and the use of aids. A large group that is excluded from working life are those who have some form of disability. By removing the proportion of enterprises that have to pay for the purchase of aids, and by establishing a fund to help facilitate universal design, many of these groups will be able to return to work. Therefore, in its alternative budget, the Progress Party proposes that 25 million be allocated. to facilitate working conditions for persons with disabilities. In addition, proposals are made to remove the 40 pst excess. which business must pay for the organisation of work. The high proportion has led many companies to stagger to hire people where they had to rebuild the job. In connection with Stortingen's treatment of Innst. O. No 68 for the 2007-2008 Progress Party, together with the Christian People's Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking for the assessment of alternative financial instruments and the level of financial support for the universal design of existing buildings/installations and outdoor areas aimed at the public. It is assumed that the aid scheme will not fully finance actions and that payments will not be made until the activities concerned use their own funds for the actions. It is assumed that the aid schemes shall not cover ordinary maintenance or refurbishment costs.’;» If this proposal had been adopted, in the view of the Progress Party, it would have led to the work on universal design being well under way, and far more with a disability could have taken on ordinary work. An increase in these budget lines will bring great savings to the disability chapter, while many will gain a much better and richer life through participation in the labour market. For the Progress Party, senior policy is very important. Therefore, the Progress Party wants those who choose to work beyond retirement age to have the opportunity to do so without shortening the pension. For the Progress Party, it is incomprehensible that pensioners between 69 and 70 years of age will be reduced if they earn more than 2 G. Many pensioners, especially the minimum pensioners, are struggling to pay their daily expenses. Therefore, the Progress Party wants the minimum pension for married and single pensioners to be set at 2 G and that the basic pension is not curtailed if married or cohabited. For the Advancement Party, it is important that those who have saved their pension over a long life receive their rightful payment. It is therefore unacceptable that the increase in minimum pensioners is granted only to single minimum pensioners and that it is financed by providing the other pensioners with a lower wage increase than workers elsewhere in the country, which has been decided by the Storting that they should not have. The Progress Party wants all pensioners to have at least the same wage growth as other employees, as proposed by the Progress Party at the Innst. S. No 305 for 2007-2008, which was to be fully financed by State resources. I have heard in the debate that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have claimed that this was a joint settlement between the different types of pensioners. I just want to make it clear that the government parties have obviously misunderstood the Robin Hood method. Robin Hood took from the rich and gave to the poor, he did not take from those who had little from before, and gave to those who had less. In this case, the state has a surplus for 2008 of well over 400 billion kroner, but the pension-stop bill sends it to pensioners who have a small supplementary pension. I'm sorry. I take up the suggestions I have made myself or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e302	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e308	On 25 November, we had an interpellation debate on Nav here in the Chamber, and in one of his speeches, the representative Svendsen defended the fact that the Progress Party has repeatedly wanted to cut down on the operation of the Working and Welfare Session, and he justified it that the policies of the Progress Party, with great tax relief, would lead to many more people coming to work, as otherwise the SSB rejects in today's Evening Post. I want to ask the representative Svendsen how the Progress Party wants to implement the cut in the Working and Welfare Session – or to streamline, as they call it. Do you want to cut it into the number of employees? And if not, where do you want to carry out the cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e315	I thank you for a good question. I'll give you a better answer. There are 12,784 employees in Nav. So in that strength, it's 7.9 pst. who are sick at all times. That means there are a little over 1,000 employees who are ill-reported. It is above the State norm and above the average in Norway. This means that if measures were put in place in this department to ensure that the rest of Norway gets a lower percentage of people sick, we could save a lot of money on it. In addition, people are hired to do the job that the sick should have done, which means that they have a double pay there in large parts. In addition, the Progress Party will use considerable money to buy healthcare. We want to use considerable money to rehabilitate sick people, which means that more and more people will come back to work, and thus we will need less funding for Nav. So there the representative got a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e326	As we say in Eastfold, there's one thing I'm «teaching» on. There are basically several things I ‘disciplined’ at the budget of the Progress Party, but let me focus on one aspect, namely the increase in labour market action by the Progress Party. In last year's budget proposals, the big ones had cut, and now they're doing the wrong thing. Does this mean that the Progress Party has lost faith in its own policy of creating new jobs? Or does that mean that the Progress Party is actually trying to be more responsible than the Government in the developments we see ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e333	If you're from Eastfold or anywhere else, at least this place is to trick things. And here you have to get answers as well. We imagine that there will be a development in the unemployment rate for next year, if you don't take action. For this reason, the Progress Party has proposed to include significant measures in its budget, including: a sharp increase in the appropriations allocated to transport and a sharp increase in the appropriations allocated to upgrading school buildings and other municipal buildings, leading to many more in work. In this way, we are defending mass unemployment, and in addition, we are going in to lower the level of taxation in Norway in order to increase the activity. When we do this, we won't get an increase, but we won't get that decrease if we put in the same measures last year. This means that we will end up keeping a daily allowance at the same level as the government has proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e340	At a time when it is difficult on the labour market, the Progress Party chooses to cut 50 million. kr on the Labour Inspectorate. They do not support any new measures against social dumping that could have protected most people, such as reindeers, hotel and building workers, against health-threatening working conditions and underpayments. This means that the Progress Party believes – and they say it in clear text in the setting – that these are people who are going to compete more on pay, i.e. go down in pay. I would then like to ask the Progress Party why they believe it is right that those with the most difficult and toughest working conditions now have less help from the authorities to have decent working conditions, and why they believe it is right that these groups should reduce their wages, while they believe, for example, that. grossing-up representatives need large wage increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e347	First of all, we don't think it's right that these should fall into pay. Secondly, it is up to any wholesaler whether or not he will receive salary increases. He can give it for a good purpose if he wants to. I would recommend to those who are opposed to wage increases, to send this money to the Church's Emergency Service or other organizations. With regard to the proposals described in the proposal, I have understood that these proposals are to be assessed by the Government. The party of progress is not of the calibre that we take it over the table when it is announced that an assessment will be made by the Government. Then we wait until the assessment has been carried out. Then we will make an assessment of what has been investigated by the Government, because then we have facts on the table about what measures it makes sense to take, what measures will suit the different areas. Then we're going to decide on these measures. As far as the Labour Inspectorate is concerned, it is quite clear, as our proposal also states, that in simplifying the legislation and simplifying the legislation, the Labour Inspectorate will not need to take the steps they are taking today, and you can cut them there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e356	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e359	In many ways, the budget debates the Stortinget is now conducting by day, a almost surrealistic experience. There has never been a greater distance between maps and terrain, between the budget of the bulk of the population, and the economic reality in which this budget is supposed to work. That is why the debate we are going to have today will probably be a sort of debate, because we are going to deal with an 'equal budget'. This is best illustrated by the expected trend in unemployment. On page 37 of the National Budget, the Government writes: ‘However, unemployment will be at a historically low level by the end of 2009 and the labour market will be characterised by labour shortages in several sectors.’» Yesterday, the Central Statistical Office presented its new forecasts. It writes the Agency, among other things: the following: ‘However, unemployment is likely to increase for a long time. We believe that the number of unemployed will rise to over 100 000 during 2009 and that unemployment will reach 4.6 per cent of the workforce in 2010. The government's draft budget, which the majority are going through in the Grand Duchy, is therefore not in any way adapted to the economic development we are now facing. The right's alternative budget is a budget for new employment policies, not new policies. We want action now, not desertless investigations and paralysis – because it's urgent. The government is tightening up the taxes on business. The right-hand side reverses the tax dollars. The last hardworking Nordics now need is a government budget that tightens the tax haven against the businesses and jobs that keep the whole welfare community up. The overall objective of the government in fiscal policy is, in fact, a narrow desire to take more from the so-called richest, and it also adds to this budget. The problem is that the tax snipers that are now being trodden through will increase the tax on ownership at a time when companies are screaming for capital. While most countries around us in this situation are removing property taxes, reducing inheritance taxes and stimulating business with tax relief, the red-green government is going the opposite way. That's what the government is planning to do, because it thinks it's both right and necessary. It needs the money to fulfill its election promises, it needs to know. The problem is just – and unfortunately, what they don't understand in the government offices – that with this they give a puff in the back of many of the companies that are now on the edge of the dump. When enterprises go out of business and people go out of work, red-greens are left with increased public expenditure on unemployment benefits and social assistance and lost tax revenue. The vicious economic circle strikes. Who's losing it? Of course, it's the weakest, the least of them ever. Families lose their homes and homes, and the municipalities of the country have to reduce their services. Those who lose their job now, or who are at risk of losing it, are mainly qualified for work. What they want, and what they need, is a new job. A skilled professional does not need an additional licence to be qualified. He's qualified. He needs a job. Nor does he need a jobseeker's course for a job market without job vacancies. He needs a company that's running with profits, and that can offer a job. In that case, anti-business tax policies are not useful. Enterprises need to be stimulated and encouraged to invest in new jobs, not penalised because they succeed in creating something. For three years, the red-green government and the majority in Stortinget have abused the adventurous opportunity to help people who are far from working. The government parties like to boast that employment is historically high – yes, as long as it lasts, it is right now, and we should be happy about that. But is this because of the government's policy? The registered unemployment rate is halved, and it is good and good, but the number of people with disabilities is only marginally reduced. About as many people are dependent on economic social assistance today as three years ago, and the queues in front of the Fattighuset are growing. The increase in the number of disabled persons is high, as is the take-off of the AFP. I have not even mentioned the sick leave, which is going down by 20 pst. in relation to 2001 levels by the end of 2009. This goal does not talk about the majority. Not even 605 million extra appropriations. kr in the 2007 budget and beyond has had some effect. Right-wing forces in their alternative budget are investing in disabled persons with 1000 more places than those in the majority’s position. We've done this every year in this magnification period. We think it's this group that should be lifted, simply because we think it's this group that needs it the most. In the long and strong economic cycle we have been through, the number of people with disabilities has not fallen significantly. As I said, it's good with high employment, but it's not a little easy to boast about it to those who actually don't get away with it. We know that people with disabilities can get into work, but we also know that this requires time, thoroughness and quality in the rehabilitation, planning and individual follow-up of the individual, qualification and job test. However, the danger is great for those with a working disability – in times of recession, conditions are not just as good as those in work. Mastering, qualification and rehabilitation of good quality are the needs of these people for a chance in their working life. The government has spent a lot of energy talking about getting people from social security to work, but what does the majority say to the disabled today? Is the majority really satisfied with the fact that the number of people with disabilities is only reduced by 7 000 during a period when there has been a screaming shortage of labour? Is this the amount of money spent on the big problems? So some considerations about the topic of social dumping. The right is for work immigration. Immigration contributes to meeting the needs of labour and, in addition to raising thousands of people who have lived in poverty and misery in other countries, to a better life for themselves and theirs. In fact, labour migration creates social cohesion, where people from less prosperous countries than Norway get to come here and make good money, and later contribute to raising economic living standards at home. This is fundamentally positive. Therefore, it is sad to see that parts of political Norway cannot talk about labour immigration without almost always having a social dumping clause. It is almost as if social dumping is the dominant feature of employment in Norway. It's not. Employment in Norway is well-functioning, and employees have a steady record of good pay and working conditions. That's good, and that's how it should be. However, every case of social dumping where unprofessional enterprises treat employees badly is serious. It is serious for those directly affected, it is serious for competition in the business world, and it is not least serious for the reputation of different enterprises and industries. That's why the Right is concerned that we should fight social dumping. But in this fight, it's important that we use instruments that work, not instruments that work against their purpose. So what is social dumping? Social dumping is primarily the exploitation of individuals. It's not always the hourly wage that's the determining factor. Equally often, examples of working conditions are a threat to life and health, where accommodation is bulky and working hours are unwarranted. Employers offering such relationships shall be tracked and taken. This is unprofessional work. Therefore, the Right considers that there is still a need to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. In Højre's alternative state budget, we strengthen the Labour Inspectorate for the third year in a row. We do this because we believe that labour market supervision is a public responsibility. We also receive reports that the work of the Labour Inspectorate on social dumping is being strengthened. The unprofessional actors are being taken faster now than before, and that's good. Solidarity, which the Government will now investigate, I have to say a little about it in the end. It is true that joint and several liability has been the subject of Stortinget several times. The last time the government wasn't willing to go in for it. Now the matter is to be investigated. I'm a little excited about what the government is actually going to go in for. This is a very radical measure in which we have little faith from the Right. We have experience from other countries that show that it is both bureaucratic and costly, and it also pushes out some small and medium-sized enterprises that are unable to operate the administrative system that this requires. As an alternative to this, the Right Party, together with the Left Party and the Progress Party, has proposed a checklist - this is included in the setting. We will come back to this later in the debate, because I see that the time is running out. Finally, I would like to include the suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e399	The representative Martin Engeset has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e404	I agree with the Right that labour immigration and the free movement of labour are in themselves a good thing, but social dumping is an undesirable trick that comes with it. The Labour Party and this government have put a lot of effort into stopping social dumping. The proposal on solidarity is part of this. We have seen too many examples of employees who do not get the pay they should have and that dishonest employers are persuasive. I think it should be possible for these employees to follow the contract chain upwards, i.e. that you follow the flow of money to get out the money that you are entitled to. This is in line with the EU Posting of Workers Directive, where we are obliged to ensure that posted workers receive the remuneration they will have and decent working conditions. On the right, this is stated in the comments, and the representative Engeset has also confirmed this. With regard to those who need to sweat because they have hired unprofessional subcontractors, we currently have joint responsibility for taxes and charges in some types of contractual relationships. Is it true that the Right has opposed these forms of joint and several liability when they were adopted, or is it only when it comes to the pay of workers that the Right is opposed to joint and several liability?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e413	I believe that joint and several liability weakens the general legal basis applicable elsewhere in Norway, that it is the offender who is to be punished by a contracting entity being given responsibility for rectifying the crime committed by a subcontractor. I, and Right, do not believe that this will contribute to less unprofessionality of unprofessional subcontractors. Rather the opposite, we think the opposite might be the case. Experience from other countries suggests that this is not a very suitable tool. We have much more faith that what we have called a checklist, which is also mentioned in the setting, is an instrument that can be better suited. But if this is as good as the representative Henriksen is trying to present it as – I see him nodding intensely – I am a little surprised that this has not already been adopted, nor is it able to say today that it is to be adopted, but simply proposes that it be investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e419	I would first like to inform you that it is not just in Eastfold that you wonder about things. So do you in Nordland. I registered that the representative used a large part of his contribution to describe the budget that was presented, which I very much agree with, because it does not take into account the challenges that you have. But it might seem that the Right doesn't take over the financial crisis, because I'm recording that you're cutting 67 million. DKK in daily allowance and 130 million. kr in labour market measures. Does this mean that you expect a fall in unemployment to next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e426	No, we definitely don't -- unfortunately. With what our alternative state budget contains, first of all, there are a number of concrete measures that will create more jobs. That means that several of those who get unemployed will actually find it easier to find a new job. Secondly, we are re-prioritising from this to what is called the Basic Skills Programme in the workplace, which will help those who lose their jobs to gain new skills and become more easily involved in new jobs. What's really the point is that it can't be that the difference between a social and an unsocial unemployment policy is about whether it takes a short or a long time to get a new job. The problem is that the government's tax incentives are going to force some companies to stop, so that more people become unemployed. We do not want that. That is why we feel that our budget is what is sensible and sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e431	When there are tight times, SV believes it is important that those who have the strongest back should take the heaviest roofs. That is why we have changed the property tax and inheritance tax now, so that those who have small assets and those who inherit a little receive tax relief – quite large as well. The Right Party and the Advance Party seem to think it's completely unimportant that ordinary people get tax relief in these areas, and are very angry because those who have very large assets have to pay a little more. But today we see that the SSB states that at the time we're in now, tax cuts are a very bad medicine for unemployment. On the contrary, there is an increase in areas that can provide jobs, which would be much more right. My question then is: Do the Right as a principle have tax relief for the rich, or are they willing to accept that in the situation we are in now, it is wrong to give large tax credits to those who have large assets, and that it will be more important to focus more on measures that can have a direct impact on jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e438	The populist tax plate might as well relax the representative Karin Andersen immediately. She describes the Right Policy in a completely caricatured way. That is not what we are proposing. We are engaged in a tax policy that gives them greater scope for action with lower and medium incomes. So when she points to this with the taxes on wealth, it's the way that the Central Statistical Office doesn't say that the increase in tax makes sense in this situation. Because that is, in fact, what the Government is proposing to a number of small and medium-sized enterprises, which have to take money out of jobs and businesses, are weakening equity, in order to make it possible to pay property taxes based on values that are no longer present. It's grossly unfair, and that's the last business life needs in the situation we're facing. It will only create thousands more of the unemployed, and I do not understand with my best will that the Government with open eyes maneuvers into such a situation that you now give it the puff in the back of many small businesses standing on the edge of the stump. You should have been saved for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e443	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e446	When the State budget was discussed in Stortinget last week, the Christian People's Party proposed a framework for the budget area of the Labour and Social Committee of 58 million. kr higher than the framework adopted by the Government Parties. Nevertheless, we have found room to repeat essentially the bet proposals that we promoted in the financial situation. It's always nicer to talk about bets than about cut, but a credible budget proposal means talking about both. So let me start with the reductions. We reiterate the proposal of the Bondevik II Government for a tightening and simplification of the remuneration guarantee scheme. The previous government put forward proposals for both extensions and tightening up this system. Overall, total profit or loss would be a good, simpler remuneration guarantee scheme. The size was in favour of the expansions, but not for the contractions. We still stand for the whole package. The development of sick pay and the follow-up to the IA Agreement clearly indicate that there will have to be a miracle if sick leave is to fall by 20 pst. until the end of 2009. It is particularly serious that major deficiencies have been identified in the use of an important tool to limit sick leave, namely dialogue meetings. The Christian People’s Party believes that both the negative development of sick leave and the reported numbers of dialogue meetings indicate that there is a need for new grip. We propose to give both employers and employees stronger incentives to follow up the dialogue meetings and at the same time give Nav a greater financial framework to follow up on their responsibilities. At the same time, it is important to stress that no one will lose their right to sickness benefits if the dialogue meetings that the IA Agreement states are actually to be conducted. The Christian People's Party reiterates the proposal to give self-employed women the same entitlement to sickness benefits in connection with pregnancy and childbirth as ordinary workers do. We also propose the full liquidation of the curtailment of the pension against labour income for all ordinary old-age pensioners. No 69-year-olds understand why their pension should be curtailed. Our re-priorities give a stronger focus on job-stimulating measures. The Christian People's Party is disappointed that neither the Council of State nor the government parties see the need to improve the care system for parents who are totally dependent on it in order to be able to take care of their own severely disabled children. It's a limited group, and it doesn't cost the whole world. It is tempting to compare the rhetoric regarding the increase of the minimum pension. So it's a performance that's automatically indexed and that's now being further increased by re-priorities. The care allowance is kept at the same nominal level. The Christian People's Party suggests that care money should also be indexed when people receive it over more than a continuous 12-month period. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government parties in the last turn found 3 million. extra to the test system with service dogs for disabled persons. Even the Christian People's Party has invested 11 million. kr, as we believe that the scheme should be permanent. We are also satisfied with and support the additional effort made by NGOs to integrate housing and recreational activities for those with drug problems. The Christian People's Party further strengthens this area to develop more partnerships between non-governmental organisations and municipalities. Blue Cross’ project ‘Step for Step’ is a good example of work training for people with low working capacity – a project that we would like to see expanded. Unfortunately, there is good reason to believe that there will be significantly greater pressure on Nav in the coming year, as a result of the financial crisis and job losses. There's a huge pressure on the department already, which is a lot of user enquiries is a clear evidence of. I ask the Council of State to keep the Stortinges continuously informed and propose the efforts to develop skills and other organisational measures that may be necessary to improve the working situation of employees and improve the supply of services to users. I have noticed that the government wants to do a good job where the state and the municipality agree on measures to combat unemployment. The municipalities have plans for construction and maintenance projects for NOK 30 billion that can be started as soon as possible. This is fully in line with the Christian People's Party package of measures. There's no reason to wait for two months! I would like to take up with this the draft budget of the Christian People's Party and the verbal proposals we have promoted alone or with others. And we support proposal No. 41, from the government parties, which were delivered today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e480	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the proposals she referred to, and has also given an explanation of vote. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e485	The IA agreement is an exchange agreement between the Government and the employer side where changes are to be made through negotiations. The IA agreement provides for dialogue meetings to follow-up the respondent, as the representative says. I agree with the assessment that the focus on these dialogue meetings needs to be increased. The Christian People's Party proposes that both the employer and/or employee should be charged with a liability of 10 pst. – without prior negotiations – if the conditions for these dialogue meetings are not met. In other words, it is proposed to cut the sick pay scheme. My experience with dialogue meetings is that it is precisely the employer and the employee who is driving the meetings. In fact, the challenge is to get the other parties to the table, as doctors and representatives from Nav. My question therefore becomes: Does the Christian People's Party see with their proposal that they hit economic groups that are actually the drivers of dialogue meetings, while the proposal is in reality a termination of the IA agreement? Is this the Christian People's Party's desire?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e494	No, it's not a termination of the IA agreement, but because we see that the IA agreement has not worked – there has not been any change at all – we're looking at whether we can do new things. In addition, a report from the Riksrevision states that there is no follow-up. 72 pst. no follow-up shall be given by those on temporary untied pay-as-you-go. That's why we've proposed making this change. But no one loses any rights – that's what I think is important. And we're going to follow this closely. We have also given more money to Nav, so that they can follow up more, not only those who are ill, but also those who eventually become unemployed. We see problems in the future that we want to be with and solve in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e503	In today’s legislation, the blind and partially sighted are not granted support for visual engineering aids such as: reading lights and speech or magnifying software for use on the PC. Government parties will offer this, but believe that it should be financed by increasing the proportion of computer equipment for disabled persons. I'm a little surprised that the Christian People's Party supports this. Is it so to understand that the Christian People's Party has now changed its policy, by introducing re-priorities between weaker groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e510	First of all, I would say that if the Christian People's Party's alternative budget had been adopted, we would have had 58 million. kr more. Then I actually think I would have wanted to re-prioritize that discovery. Nevertheless, when we support the Government's proposal, it is because the blind and the feeless today do not receive an offer, they do not receive a grant. I think it is important for them to be able to communicate with the outside world through ICT, so that they can follow along and get information on the same lines as the rest of us. At the same time, I am pleased with the proposals that the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have together in the budget to help that particular group. I am thinking about marking glass surfaces, we want to remove the ceiling for reading and writing help, and we want to introduce deadlines related to ICT.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e520	I record that the Christian People's Party enters into its budget to give the self-employed the same entitlement to sickness benefits, care allowance, care allowance and training in connection with pregnancy and childbirth that ordinary workers have. This is an affordable measure, but it's hard to see how the Christian People's Party will cover these additional expenses. When the Government proposed similar measures, it was covered by increasing the social security premium. I can't see that the Christian People's Party has done it. The question is: is this to be covered by ordinary cuts in the appropriations of the other employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e527	The Christian People's Party is proud that we've been able to put this into the budget, and we've put money into it. I think it is important that self-employed people get the same rights, especially women who have children. They're struggling to run their own businesses, because when children get sick, they don't have rights. I think the Senterpartiet should be involved – if you don't need to increase supplementary insurance. Then they only get 65 pst, while with our budget, that means they get 100 pst. from the first day. I think that will not least contribute to the creation of women's workplaces in the districts, of which the centre party is normally occupied.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e534	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e537	I note that the Christian People's Party does not respond to how they will cover the increased extra costs. At least I couldn't believe it. Then to today's budget. We're up in a very difficult time. I find initial reason to remind everyone that it is in times of decline that we should have extra attention to our workforce, or people and knowledge, which is our most important resource – and we are now within a time when conversion is necessary. It is important that a policy that keeps the most employed, but it is equally important that employment is shifting towards a transition period, is forward-looking. In the Centre Party, we are committed to developing an action policy that adds to the societal and sustainable management of people's jobs and of the Norwegian economy. It is not the increase in private consumption that has so far prevented us from solving a number of important common tasks. But by using this activity now, we have opportunities to dampen the effect of what we're in, and maybe reverse the negative development towards a more positive development. We need to invest in the development of infrastructure, maintenance of roads, railways, ports and the renovation of public buildings such as schools, hospitals and churches. We need to invest in production jobs and the processing of natural resources. We need to bet on renewable energy. Voluntary organisations and strong communities are now more important than ever before. Strengthening the House Bank and the housing support system are a contribution to those who now need housing security. Many now experience lay-offs and lay-offs, and even more fears that this will affect them. Vulnerable groups in the labour market can now become even more vulnerable than before. A proper labour market policy is an effective response to poverty and to reduce social disparities. The government has kept up a high level of action in the good times we have behind us. This has been right, and it has given us an important contribution to a record high employment. The good figures from previous years can now be an important ballast to face more difficult times. We need a robust hub that can solve the challenges. The change in the Nav reform has been – and is still – tough. I have great respect for all those who now need Nav, but who feel that the help they get is not good enough, and for those employees in Nav who feel that they are short. I believe that with this budget and the previous reinforcement of Nav, we also provide Nav staff so that they can do a good job to those who are in contact. I believe that we will get through the transition with a better offer on the other side. All must now contribute to the stability and security of the administration. Now is not the time to cut labour market measures, as the Right and Left do. Nor is it time for self-marking and experimentation, as the Progress Party adds when they want to eradicate the qualification programme, which is a targeted measure to help the poorest and disadvantaged in the labour market. It is unrealistic for so many to recover in a short time by now granting 628 048 million to the Progress Party. kr for the purchase of health and rehabilitation services for the sick. Some people cannot be completely healthy regardless of the public extra consumption of money from the health budget. Some are already ill and need to be helped in the future. Cutting off sick pay, cutting off disability, abolishing the qualification programme, cutting off lonely parents and old people who haven't been in the country long enough to have self-esteem in the populace, is unsocial, and it's unrealistic politics. But that's predictable. It is the weakest who loses when the Progress Party is going to make a budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e561	I note that the representative of the Centre Party is also more concerned about the policy of the Progress Party than with its own policy. He concludes his article by saying that he is very busy with the weakest. I remember before the 2005 big shot. The Central Party then went out strongly and was in Harmony that the then government chose the OECD poverty definition. It is clear from what Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said to the Evening Post on 10 September 2004, where it said that the government has ‘comfortably chosen the method that gives the least of the poor’ – in terms of definition choice. At the same time, I record that when the Government presented its action plan against poverty, the Government also chose to use the OECD poverty definition. What makes it more correct to use that definition now, when you're in government, compared to when you're not in government? Does this mean that the sitting government has also chosen the most comfortable definition?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e572	I can't go into the debate that was before I came in as a big-time representative. I don't know the argument. I just note that today we have a significant poverty problem, which the Government takes into account and meets in the best possible way. We haven't been good enough to date, but we're still working on solving the big challenges we have on that page.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e577	In the beginning, I wondered if the representative Samuelsen had brought a post from earlier times, when the Senterpartie also wanted to fend off small businesses and sole proprietorships. At the moment, it may seem that there is a policy that the Central Party has abandoned. But over to what I want to ask. There's an increasing number of bankruptcies in Municipality-Norway, especially the districts are being hit hard. In my own state, the increase is 164 pst. in relation to the third quarter of last year. Does the Central Party not see that the government’s tax policy leads to more people losing their jobs in the districts? Had it not been better then to give targeted tax relief to the companies than what is done per person. Today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e584	Firstly, the answer to that question is that the centre party is still occupied by small businesses and their conditions in Business Norway today. It may well be that the fiscal policy pursued does not have the positive effect on the companies to which the left-wing representative refers. But if you look around the world, and look at the country where the recession we're in started, you just have a tax-free policy that's much stronger than the one we have in Norway. And there are few – if at all there are some – who see that the tax policy has given a positive result. So I think we're going to have a sober relationship with both tax policy and other measures in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e591	For example, in the budget configuration, the following are written: The central party that they will ‘point out that during the 2009 state budget work, it became clear that the economic cycle was turning around and that the financial crisis would have real economic consequences. This has been taken into account in the budget’. Now we have seen that due to the financial crisis, Notar has gone over the end, Ekorenes has announced that they will introduce the four-day week, the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs – MEF – says that in the first quarter of 2009, they will have an open capacity of 30 p.m., after half a year they will have 50 p.m., and after one year they will have 80 p.m. available capacity. In large parts of the construction they operate, there are persons from, among others: Northland. And there is not one measure to resolve this in the budget – and we are now dealing with the state budget for 2009. Then I wonder, is it that you don't take into account the financial crisis that is now coming? Do you hesitate to sit and see that more and more people become unemployed and get out of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e606	No, it doesn't matter to the Government – nor to the Center Party. We may well agree fairly on defining the challenges we face, but there are differences in the measures we want to put in place. It is amazing that without clearly defining what measures you think work, you ignore the fact that it is the market that fails. It is the market that does not demand the products that are produced today and that we mainly export. It might be interesting to discuss in this room what the Progress Party intends to do with the market in order to improve the situation. I don't think we have that medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e613	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e616	There are difficult times for many, and unemployment is increasing. Many fear what will happen in the New Year, and there are probably many who do not relax so well during the Christmas holidays. That's why we need a government that comes over Christmas with a much stronger leaning to prevent unemployment and debt problems for the individual family. The welfare society of the future depends on an innovative business, today more than ever. Future jobs are not yet created, and the Left will have policies to support innovation and entrepreneurs, research, education and a tax system with important preconditions for future jobs and well-being. We can't, like any later to believe, just live by the public in this country. Because we rely on more people to ensure tomorrow's well-being, the Left in its alternative budget will strengthen the social rights of self-employed people by increasing the sick pay pot for self-employed people by 13.4 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. Care and care allowance for children’s disease is proposed to be increased by 10 million. kr. The coverage of self-employed persons for sickness benefits and care allowance is 65 p.m. today, while the increase proposed by the Left in its alternative budget will be 100 p.m. coverage. We all have a responsibility for the people around us. The public can never fully compensate for the effects of care failure, abuse or other problems, but must take more responsibility and take action where parents or other relatives do not have the power to care. No one chooses their childhood. The public shall intervene in the event of failure to provide care, abuse or abuse of children as well as in the event of serious behavioural difficulties in children or young people. The public also has a preventive responsibility. Today, the prevention work for children and young people is characterised by sectoralisation, lack of overall thinking, poor management and low political status. There is an obvious connection between families with very low income and problems with alcohol, mental illness and other problems. That is why it is so important that we reach these families. This is the fight against poverty that this government was supposed to solve. Now we have been with this government for three years and can see that the problems of poverty are at least not solved. Most of the children with major problems are poor. Therefore, the Left puts it into its budgetary priorities, and believes that there is a sensible policy to prevent poor living conditions in children and young people. The possibility of success of prevention often depends on conditions such as leisure opportunities, education and access to stable employment and housing. In most Norwegian municipalities, there are different agencies that should be able to deal with prevention without coordination of overall governance. The left will therefore strengthen prevention and interaction in a number of areas in order to prevent poverty and give everyone the same living conditions as possible. In its alternative state budget, the Left proposes an overall framework of more than DKK 1 billion in relation to targeted poverty reduction specifically targeted at children and young people, broken down by different appropriations. An increasing number of workers face uncertain times. All reports now suggest that the unemployment rate is much faster than previously assumed, and also faster than the Government’s 2009 government budget. Experience in the past has shown that the labour market is the least closely connected to the labour market, which first encounters problems in getting out of work and maintaining work. Among them are those with the greatest difficulty in entering the labour market. That is why it is so important that they are prioritised in the budget. Left's done that. A new social housing policy is another important instrument for tackling them with the worst living conditions. Therefore, the Left has proposed a new housing policy and will work in the budget to strengthen it in the future. We strengthen transfers to non-governmental organisations that have the ability to operate low-threshold services that they can provide. The left wants to help get the homeless out of the street and give that group a worthy offer. It is a group of people who have little to do with public utility, and therefore it is important to help them get out in an unbureaucratic way. In the alternative budget of the Left, we propose an increase of 25 million. to non-governmental organisations to strengthen measures for the homeless with poor living capacity. Left wants to bet on support contacts to help children and young people from low-income families. A strengthened support contact service can have many positive effects in a difficult everyday life. A safe adult or youth who can contribute to activities can help children gain self-confidence. Increased access to support contacts will in this way be positive, and therefore we have increased the allocation by 30 million. kr. Thus, the measures for contact with aid and low-threshold housing measures are proposed in the alternative draft budget of the Left at an overall cost of 55 million. kr. Children in low-income families participate to a lesser extent in organised leisure activities than children in families most. This helps to stigmatise and can lead to less participation in society in other areas. Families with disabled children often have a tough everyday life, and many express that the fight against the system is the worst part of their everyday lives. It is a young piece of legislation that is difficult to get an overview of. That is why we have also granted care allowances for families with disabled children, and in our alternative budget we have proposed 70 million. extra for the care allowance for the parents of disabled children. In addition, the Left will support proposal No. 14, and I'll take up the suggestions we're alone in and out.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e648	The representative André N. Skelstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e653	In the financial situation, the Left says that a generally good framework for all parts of the economy is crucial. I have a question that goes on just that. In our framework area, the Left promotes its own poverty package, which the representative of Skelstad has presented in his speech. But there's one catch by it, and that's that poverty package in its entirety financed by winding up the net pay system for seafarers. After all, it is a scheme that not only guarantees employment for each seafarer or woman. It is also a system that ensures that we retain shipping companies in Norway, with the ring-effects it can have for other parts of the maritime industry such as shipyards, ship equipment suppliers, insurance, etc. My question to the representative of Skkelstad is: does the Left not see the consequences of the liquidation of the net pay scheme for parts of the maritime industry in Norway, or is it not the left of that industry at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e662	The left is very concerned with the maritime sector, and not least shipping. We support it in relation to our overall framework, and believe that this will also contribute to a positive development for business. We want a much stronger and precise input than what the government has added. I have to point out that as it has now been, there is no doubt that the left-wing grips outlined in their alternative budget have been correct. I'm just wondering how this is going to be, because the government came late, and we also hear in the Chamber today that there are going to be extra measures – it's announced that in February there will be a new budget. What are we adopting today? Is it a skin budget, or are the realities behind it? In any case, we believe that the Left has the right approach to what the representative asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e669	I have a question about labour market measures. Left writes in the setting that the left “detects that more and more workers encounter uncertain times. All reports now suggest that the unemployment rate is much faster than previously assumed and also faster than the Government's 2009 government budget. Experience in the past has shown that the labour market is the closest to the labour market, which first has problems both in getting out of work and in keeping up work». The conclusion of the Left is a cut of 1250 action places and a reduction in the budget of 138 million. kr. In the context of the comment, I wonder, where is the logic?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e683	The left is more focused in its work. We increase the number of job-impaired job vacancies by 200. The unemployed are far from the labour market. We also write that if it becomes necessary to apply measures at a later stage, we will come back to that. Regardless of that, I am surprised that earlier in the debate there is a reference to action by action, but the best measure, in any case, is to have an industrial policy that will work by providing companies with proper, good framework conditions, so that we get a labour market where we do not have unemployment to the extent that we see an increasing trend today. I think it would have been right now to assess – something that the government does not, but as the bourgeois parties do – to give real, good framework conditions to the companies, so that we keep as much work as possible. Unfortunately, we see little of that from the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e690	On the left, the "stronger lye" is called for when the unemployment rate increases. They get it early on with the Left's proposals, where it is cut off from the measures for the unemployed. It is surprising that the Left is opposed to the measures we are putting in place now for those who are the most marginal in the labour market and who have to compete harder to keep their jobs – i.e. the measures we are putting in place to combat social dumping, which are intended to protect pay and working conditions for ordinary people. The representative was in his post occupied by lonely carers and families who have it difficult. Yes, in these professions – i.e. in the area of cleaning, hotels and restaurants – many women are very vulnerable. And then left writes in this setting that they believe that these are people who are going to compete harder on pay to keep their jobs. I must say, it is quite hard to be served in a difficult time! I would like to ask: Why does the Left believe that these ordinary workers should go down to pay so that they can keep their jobs in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e701	I guess no one here thinks someone's going to pay off. I notice that Andersen's representative does not have the same entrance to me as she had to the representative Svendsen. I would like to reply to the representative Andersen in the following way: if you look at the general level, I also think – with my own experience from business – that it is in many ways regrettable that we have such an attitude towards individual companies and small businesses, which are involved in creating these jobs. I think that's a problem considering the ones involved, because this is not a Reichsman's club, to which SV has referred in various orders. It's these that in many ways create the values and are building blocks out in the districts. I miss this in the rhetoric that comes from the government parties. I find that very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e710	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e714	The number of registered unemployed shows that the registered unemployment rate was 1.8 pst. of November. Unemployment is still low, but unemployment has increased significantly in recent months. The total number of people available now amounts to 45,200. The increased unemployment rate is particularly linked to lower activity in the construction sector, but we also see a gradual increase in the unemployment rate in several industries and in industry in particular. There is considerable uncertainty about developments. It is reflected in increasing levels of permissions, including here from a low level. 0,1 pst. – 3 097 persons – by the labour force were wholly or partly on leave in November. The growth in employment was strong up to the second quarter and then stopped. The decline in the labour market is also reflected in the availability of job vacancies. In November it was registered on 31 pst. fewer job vacancies than in the same month last year. In particular, there is access to jobs in construction, industry and sales jobs where there is a significant decrease. In the budget, we noted that the peak of economic recovery was passed at the beginning of the year, and the national budget forecast implies low employment growth in 2009. The expectation of a moderate increase in unemployment needs to be seen in the context of the experience of the labour supply in Norway being very cyclically sensitive. Many young people withdraw from the labour market and go to full-time studies when job offers are reduced. In addition, there are more immigrants here on temporary contracts than in previous business cycle. The economic downturn has been reinforced since the budget was presented. In particular, the international picture has become significantly weaker. Most forecasters have adjusted their estimates for growth. The financial crisis has both heightened the decline and increased the uncertainty about developments in large parts of the world. Today, when we are discussing the 2009 budget, we should have thought that Norway's starting point is very good and much better than many other countries. In the second and third quarters of this year, we had a record employment rate of 72.4 pst. in the 15- to 74-year-olds. The registered unemployment rate was down to 1.5 p.m. and there were significant pressure problems in the labour market. The main objective of the government's economic policy is full employment and low unemployment. The balanced development of the Norwegian economy must therefore guide all aspects of the policy. In this context, I would also like to highlight the importance that a sound framework for wage-setting can have for the development of employment and unemployment in spring 2009. It is important that managers at all levels of industry also take responsibility and contribute to this. There has been strong growth in management wages in recent years. The figures from the Technical Calculation Committee for Income Statements show that in 2007 the management salaries of large limited liability companies and listed companies increased by a total of 21 pst. versus 5.4 pst. for other employees. Bonus schemes and share and option gains have been important drivers behind the recent trend in management pay. This demonstrates the importance of the Government’s measures to control wage developments and to stop the conclusion of option agreements. There is currently little information on wage developments for managers in 2008, but I have noticed that figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that the wage growth of financial industry managers was 28 p.m. from 2007 to 2008. This is a very high number for leaders in an industry in crisis. An important feature of Norwegian society is relatively small wage differences. If the management rewards appear without cause or explanation, they challenge our equality and justice standards. It is important that not a few leaders contribute to undermining the economic equality we want to promote. Leader pay should be established through transparent schemes based on the results achieved. Then they will be more easily understood and perceived as legitimate. The main objective of the government's economic policy, as mentioned above, is full employment and low unemployment. The budget we are discussing is an expansive budget. Whether it should be even more expansive is too early to decide. However, the government follows the situation closely and will take the necessary initiatives if necessary. To date, it has been necessary to take initiatives to ensure that the economy does not stop due to malfunctioning credit markets. In the long term, falling interest rates will also seem expansive. As you are familiar with, the Government has announced that it will present a policy package of fiscal measures in the month of January/February. In periods of increasing unemployment, it is essential to have good and universal arrangements that capture those who fall outside the labour market. The government has a special eye for those who are the hardest. Efforts to combat poverty and address disparities continue on a broad front and with targeted measures. The government proposes to increase the poverty response by DKK 1.25 billion in 2009. The qualifying programme for vulnerable groups will be extended next year to include more and more municipalities as Nav offices are set up. The government proposes a significant strengthening of the housing aid, which will provide an estimated 40 000-50000 new beneficiaries within the scheme. The government strengthens social assistance as the most recent economic security network and increases its efforts towards drug addicts as part of the Drug Action Plan. The Government also proposes to strengthen efforts related to the Action Plan for the Integration and Inclusion of the Immigrant Population by 125 million. kr in 2009. In my view, in the current situation, it is more important than ever to continue to work to counteract a two-fold division in Norwegian working life, between Norwegian workers and workers. The work on Action Plan 2 against social dumping, which was presented in the budget, is therefore high on my priority list, and in those days we are sending out to the hearing a possible model of solidarity and proposals that will make the public service system more effective. The Labour Inspectorate has become a very central player in the fight against social dumping and for a safe and secure working life for all, and in order to ensure that the establishment can continue to be a central player, we propose to strengthen the establishment by a further 10 million. in 2009, earmarked for the fight against social dumping. Social protection contributes to the cohesion of income and living conditions and to the prevention of poverty on a broad scale by the population. As part of the social security settlement in 2008, there was an agreement to raise the minimum pension for single, which, in isolation, increases transfers for 2009 by just under DKK 1.5 billion. At the same time, the guaranteed supplementary pension scheme for young people was strengthened. It's going to add up to about 270 million. kr. In addition, the Government has proposed to increase the minimum benefit for rehabilitation, resettlement and temporary disability benefits and to increase the transitional benefit for lone dependants, which in isolation will increase the allocation requirement by approximately 610 million. kr. Overall, this effort significantly improves the economic situation among those with the lowest income in society. In 2008, the State of Labour and Welfare recognised that the implementation of the Nav reform is more demanding than foreseen. Both the establishment of the administrative units and the establishment of Nav offices have contributed to a significant and unfortunate increase in the number of stays. To reverse this trend, an allocation of 100 million has already been adopted. kr more to the Employment and Welfare Act this year. In the draft budget for next year, the strengthening has continued. So this is going to be increased by 200 million. kr for 2008 and 2009 for targeted efforts to reduce residues. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has closely followed up on all the counties. This extra effort is now producing results, with a decrease in the number of residues in September and October. 2009 will be a challenging new year for the Labour and Welfare Administration. By the end of 2009, almost all municipalities will have a Nav office. Some offices will only be established in 2010 pending suitable premises. In 2009, most of the large Nav offices are to be set up. It shall be carried out at the same time as maintaining production and stepping up the use of new instruments. Increased unemployment will require further efforts from the Labour and Welfare Administration. Several persons shall have their daily allowance and follow-up. The seat of labour and welfare is preparing for this. The budget has a lot of experience from previous periods of rapid increase in unemployment and will draw on that experience. I note that proposals have been submitted that the Stortinget ask me to make available the action appropriations so that labour market measures can be implemented when the labour market situation so warrants. I agree that there may be a need for it, and will of course follow up if the Storting decides. In recent years, labour market policy has strengthened efforts towards groups that often have difficulty getting to grips with the labour market. These relate to groups of young people and immigrants as well as to persons with reduced working capacity. That policy will continue in 2009. For some groups it is a strengthening. We introduce a youth guarantee for long-term unemployed young people between 20 and 25 years of age, so that these will be among the priority groups for participation in interventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e754	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e757	Some time back, I was told a story about a disabled person who for months had frequented his Nav office with a desire to get into work. Finally, she contacted a private employment agency, and this agency provided her with a job within two weeks. These days, the Nav offices are struggling violently with the length of the procedure. This is worrying given the increasing unemployment that we see in these days. Will the Council of State ensure that private employment agencies can take on part of this job, in line with the system put in place in Denmark, to ensure that most people get the help that is right and necessary to get back to work as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e764	The answer to the question is to get a more effective and faster process in Nav. The most important thing we can do about it is to ensure that the decisions to which the Progress Party is inviting are not adopted. It's very special to be in discussion with, among other things. The Advance Party – many other parties are well occupied by Nav – who in this year's budget have cut over half a billion dollars on Nav, and who will also propose a cut on Nav next year, but better camouflaged. I record that the Progress Party wants to camouflage its policy in that area. It is camouflaged by changes in the relationship between health care and the regimes currently in Nav. But the most important thing we can do is to strengthen Nav. So that means rejecting the proposals made by the Progress Party and achieving the results that we are now beginning to see, that the balances are going down, and that the number of qualification programmes proposed by the Progress Party is increasing throughout the year and up to the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e771	When the Storting dealt with the last bill on social dumping, the Government said no to joint responsibility, referring, among other things, to this. was an overly strong instrument. That is, the consequences of introducing it would be too large in business. That's why it's with amazement that the government is now proposing to investigate this, and the government's supporters in the Storting have shown great enthusiasm for this proposal. The investigation is under way. We have not fully seen the impact of the measures taken and evaluated this. The experience from Germany shows that solidarity is a costly and bureaucratic system with limited effect. What I'm asking is whether the Council of State believes that introducing solidarity, combined with the government's anti-commercial tax austerity, is a good start in relation to the dramatic economic development we are now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e778	First of all, the remark about tax consolidation is entirely on... yeah, it's completely wrong, because there are no tax tightenings in this year's government budget. It is a redistribution of the tax burden, so that those who have the least to pay with will pay less tax, and those who have the most to pay with will pay a little more tax. It's not a tax-enhancing thing. On the contrary, the depreciation rules for installations in industrial buildings are e.g. reduced, which has been an important requirement for business for a long time. But in the area of solidarity, I can say that the Right was against action against social dumping when we presented Action Plan 1 and the Right does not deny itself and is still against action against social dumping when we present Action Plan 2. Action Plan 1 has proved to be effective by revealing many cases of social dumping, and it has proved that we need more instruments. That is why we are now promoting Action Plan 2, where solidarity is relevant. I disagree with the representative's description of the experience from Germany. On the contrary, joint and several liability contributes to the responsibility of employers in relation to having serious subcontractors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e785	In the second quarter of this year, more than half a million people reported having health problems that could result in limitations in daily life. Of these, approx. 45 pst. At work, but of the 300,000 disabled, who were not at work or were unemployed, 90 000, i.e. 30 p.p., stated that they wanted work. The Christian People’s Party so earnestly wants them to succeed. That's why we think it's sad that this group says they're meeting with low expectations in Nav, just passive social benefits and sometimes negative attitudes. The Christian People's Party believes that this may be due to a lack of knowledge and competence of employees. What is done to prevent this from happening in the 180 offices to be set up next year? Is action already in place, or is it such that the Government has other measures ready for this disabled group?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e794	Now, when we combine both the income base that you have through being eligible for a grant through Nav, and the tools Nav has to use to help people get back to work, it's my opinion that the group that the representative Woie Duesund mentions will get a better offer. That's the whole idea of the Nav reform, which I know we're fully sharing. It is a joyous development when we look at the period from 2005 to the third quarter of 2008, that 10 000 fewer people with disabilities are unemployed. So we're starting to achieve things in that area. I agree with the representative that we should be impatient. And right now, in a situation where unemployment is increasing, we need to focus specifically on those who are particularly vulnerable on the labour market, both those with disabilities and other vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e801	The Council of State said in its statement that the number of unemployed up to now in the last month has risen sharply. A month ago, I was in a debate in Skien with Yngve Hågensen, the former head of LO. He has experience from several downtimes. He said that in the early stages of the recession, unemployment increased relatively little, but if there were no timely measures, the number of unemployed could be greatly increased. The government parties say that the government budget has taken account of the financial crisis. Then I wonder: why do you talk about different packages of measures, if it is such that the crisis has been taken into account? In fact, it's in the state budget that we're dealing with all the appropriations for next year. Finally, I would just like to state that I believe that the Council of State should take the time to read the budget of the Progress Party. Under no circumstances has the party proposed to remove the qualification programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e810	I am well aware of the fact that the Progress Party has proposed to remove the grant for the qualification programme. As far as the employment situation is concerned, it is quite right, as the representative says, that one first gets the signals, and then one gets the statistics that show that people become unemployed. This is precisely why we have presented a government budget this time that is different from other, former government budgets by actually asking for more employment. The main task of the Government is to provide a government budget that point 1 can lead to a fall in interest rates, and that goes towards what the Progress Party is doing, to increase the use of money so that we would get an interest rate increase, and point 2 prioritizes, for example. Instead of being tax-free to afford to spend extra 14 billion kroner on asking the workers of the carpenters who lose their jobs, of the electricians who lose their jobs, of the walls who lose their jobs, or of the works that lose their jobs, by increasing the appropriations for road and rail. It is an active counter-cyclical policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e819	The recent reports of the Statistical Central Bureau show that growth in the Norwegian economy has fallen sharply and that unemployment has recently started to increase sharply. How does the Government meet this situation? Well, they're implementing a symbolism policy that sends a signal to business that the workplaces in private business don't mean that much. It becomes more difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to keep their employees with the tax aggressors that have happened. For the Left, industrial policy is also social policy. And then to the question, how does Nav manage unemployment when many businesses are going to go bankrupt in the near future? What kind of consequences does the Council of State think it should have if Nav is not able to deal with the unemployment we face?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e827	First of all, it's a business policy. I recommend people in small, medium-sized and large companies to read the Left's proposals for a government budget. As pointed out by the representative of Christoffersen here in the meantime, it is only on the net pay system, which has had a decisive impact on the entire maritime sector in Norway, that it has proposed a cut of DKK 1.4 billion from the left. Then they have proposed that we remove the free CO2 allowances for companies in Norway that companies in all other European countries have, but that is to say the Left believes that Norwegian companies have to pay for, as well as an increase in the levy on diesel, mineral oil, etc. So together, the Left attack on the business community in Norway is over NOK 2.4 billion. So we're going to contribute by not going into the Left's proposal. That's good business policy. With regard to the challenges Nav is facing in the future, the Stortinget has now been invited to take a decision by the representative Karin Andersen to have flexibility in relation to the time of action. I'm very happy about that. In addition, of course, we need to enable Nav to use the measures in a sensible way. It's one of the things we come back to in the proposition that's announced in January/February.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e837	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e840	Yesterday, the Central Statistical Office, with new figures, estimated that the unemployment rate in 2009 could rise to over 100,000 people. There are gloomy prospects. It is said that the international crisis will be the worst since the 1930s, and it is obvious to all of us that this will also have consequences for Norway. In this situation, the fight for full employment must take precedence over everything else. Thanks to the election results in 2005, we now have a government that can steer the economy steadily, which has decisiveness, and which has the political capacity and the will to do the job. Since 2005, we have reduced the number of day-olds for the unemployed from five to three; we have ensured that the unemployed receive holiday pay; we have provided a strong increase in labour market measures; and unemployment has been halved. This is a policy for combating poverty; it is a policy that benefits them that really needs our solidarity. Now that we are entering worse times, we must continue to pursue a policy of more solidarity, of decent conditions for those who are unemployed, of decent working life, of social dumping. Our budget is part of it. The right has other priorities. In this situation, tax relief is needed, says the Right. They also said that last year, and the year before that and the year before that. Tax bills stand as a kind of miracle medicine for every occasion, despite what we can read in the Evening Post today, that 19 billion dollars in tax bills will only give 2,500 new jobs, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. In labour market policy, they have struggled throughout this period to reduce day-to-day benefits and cut the wage guarantee scheme that ensures wages for those who have worked in a bankrupt enterprise and they have cut labour market policy. Economic crisis does not change this either. Still, the party will cut off hundreds of millions into schemes that benefit the unemployed. Right-wing policy is a consistent policy for increasing disparities in society, towards solidarity and poverty reduction. For the Workers' Party, work for all jobs is number one, but it is also important that we have a good working life. We have strengthened the Working Environment Act and implemented restrictive policies against temporary employment, we have made sure that we have working time arrangements with which to live, and we have introduced registration schemes for rental agencies. We have also made a major effort to combat social dumping, and we have implemented many effective actions from the action plan. Now the Government launches Action Plan 2, where we move on and do a job to get regional protection agencies in the hotel and restaurant industries and in the cleaning industry. We also say that we want to introduce joint and several liability into a contract chain where we have generalised pay and working conditions. In this way, we ensure that employees actually receive the salary they are entitled to, and we meet an important requirement that the trade union movement has raised on the basis of bitter experience with employers who suspect when the pay day comes. We also need ID cards in the cleaning industry, and we continue to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. This is a policy for a decent working life, a work life in which honest work is appreciated, and where competition between businesses is about efficiency, quality and innovative solutions rather than headless competition for who is able to escape the least labour costs. I see that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, in a common observation on a principle basis, distance themselves from a policy aimed at preventing competition on pay. I wonder if these parties themselves understand what these are saying. Collective agreements in the labour market aim to regulate pay and working conditions and prevent workers from substituting each other in order to get a job. Our fight against social dumping is based on strengthening collective agreements, including: public disclosure. When the workers have to subdue each other to get a job, we are back to a situation we so much of in Norway in the 1920s and 1930s, and unfortunately we still see it today in other parts of the world. Work is not a commodity. It's not just a production cost. This is a fundamental principle of the global activities of the ILO in order to create a decent working life. The work is for most people the only source of income, and the well-being and dignity of the workers in the workplace must be respected. There is no news that the Progress Party is anti-union, but that the Right and Left have also developed a fundamental resistance to collective agreements, is a news the voters should bring with them. Here it points towards a social order we haven't had since the 1930s. But it may be that when the crisis comes, the class struggle will also come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e859	It has been interesting to follow this debate and what has been said so far. I agree with the reality description that has come, that we are going into a time of significantly higher unemployment. The council itself was in the Navs, which for November shows that we have an increase of 18 p.m. – 18 pst. increase! Then we see the SSB's number today, which shows that unemployment will rise to about 100,000. Furthermore, we know that every day, industrial enterprises, construction companies and construction companies send out notices – every day! At the same time, government parties perform to say that this has been taken into account in the budgetary position. Have you really taken into account an increased unemployment rate of 18 pst?? The representative, Svendsen, referred to the former L.A. Manager, Yngve Hågensen, who says that unemployment will rise at first and escalate more gradually if action is not taken at an early stage. Have you taken that into account? I don't think it's taken into consideration. That's why it's more important now than ever that we have a philosophy, that we have a goal of getting the whole people to work, and it might also have been desirable that the Workers' Party had looked back on its old slogans, its old visions, and been far more proactive than what they put into this state budget. The reality is that we are in an extraordinary situation, which requires extraordinary action. In fact, there is a Per who works in the construction company, who fears his job, there is a Pål who has been out for many years at the plant, who has been told that he will be on leave since December of, and it is an Espen who does not know what to do after New Year because the industrial company, in which he works, does not have any more jobs. What is the countermeasure, what is the answer from the Government and the Council of State? Well, the Council of State itself said on 27 November, in the financial debate a week ago, that a new package of measures had to be assessed in January, and that it would be considered to extend the rules on the licensing. If you saw a clear need to extend the rules of leave already at that time, why do you wait until January/February to implement it? Why could we not do that when there was a concrete proposal in the Chamber? It reminds me a little bit of the philosophy that a certain football coach had in his time, where he said to his team that we should not go out on the track and cut goals until the opponent has cut two goals. With that strategy and with that philosophy, you quickly realize that you lose football matches. With that strategy and with that philosophy, it is also quickly understood that there will be far more unemployed people, there will be far more who will be permitted than what it is put up to. Why do you have to wait for people to become unemployed before doing anything about the rules of leave? I can't in my wildest imagination to understand it. Then I would also like to point out that it is said – the representative Karin Andersen was involved, but also the Council of State – that the Government is facilitating a counter-cyclical package. Yes, but the first players in the market said that the measures in the municipal sector and the measures in the field of transport are not good enough. They do not keep up to do anything about unemployment. The YS said it, Unio said it, several trade unions said it was too bad action, they wouldn't have any effect. If you are concerned about, as the representative Karin Andersen said, more hands in care and more heads in school, and that we have to do something about getting a better community economy, why do they vote against the proposals of the Progress Party to increase the appropriations for the municipal sector by SEK 4.9 billion? It is a concrete measure that would have given you better care and more to school. In addition, additional 3 billion kroner to do something about the maintenance work would have been a very important measure for more people in the construction industry to keep their jobs. It would have been counter-cyclical measures that had really monasted, but to which the government unfortunately is not willing to listen. They are more interested in waiting for people to become unemployed before taking action. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e874	The Nav reform has been the subject of many debates here in Stortinget. There has been a cross-political agreement that the reform is necessary and correct, while we have always known that it was going to be a demanding process. Now we're in the middle of the process. In many places they succeed very well, while elsewhere they strive more to get everything in place. That's what we knew was going to happen. It is important that users are affected as much as possible. We have had several rounds here around the remains and that the processing time has increased. It's serious. These include: therefore, this year, the Government has made two rounds of additional contributions, at the latest an additional appropriation for the 60 million Labour and Welfare Seat. kr, which was dealt with on 13 November. Now we see that things are going in the right direction, but it's still important that we follow closely. In the position we are dealing with today, there is an overall opposition that comes with quite strong criticism of just the procedure. We're all worried about that. But what is a little special is that the Right Party and the Advance Party, at the same time as they are concerned about it, believe that it is now important that the Labour and Welfare Group be confronted with significant modernisation and efficiency measures. Modernisation is good and good, but for example: cutting heavily in operation, I don't think I'm exactly going to help a staff shift. The Advance Party's alternative state budget shifts health refunds from the health budget by removing the operating budget of the Health Directorate of 339.7 million. kr and move it to the State of Labour and Welfare – and get into plus. But it's fogging, because they only add 79.7 million. kr of this money entered into the Operational Item of the Labour Welfare Act. That means a 260-million cut. kr. If you're going to manage to cut so much money in the operation, I can't understand anything but that it will lead to downsizing and a significant challenge with the implementation of the Nav reform, even though I'm recording that the representative Kenneth Svendsen believes otherwise. In any case, I do not believe that the process time, which is so devoted to the Advancement Party, will go down as a result of this. Nav reform is more than an organisational reform. It is also a content reform, where we need to focus more on individuals and provide more and better follow-up, and where we need to have more effective instruments and simplify today's legislation. We will be discussing the issue of redundancy payments in Odelstinget in a short time, and we have already introduced the qualification programme where the Nav office is established. It will help many of today's social welfare recipients into activity or work, and not least ensure them a better economy. Now we see that the search for the program has increased, and I'm glad that many now have the opportunity to participate in it. But I think it's a pity that not all parties are supporting the qualification programme completely. The Progress Party cuts in its alternative state budget the entire appropriation put in that post, on the grounds that they are in favour of the programme, but against the benefit, and that people are still going to social assistance, but have a duty to be on the programme itself. Social assistance has never been meant to be a long-term benefit. It's no use living on it over time. I think that many of those who can now get from social assistance as a benefit and into the qualification programme and get a better economy, will also get a better life. Finally, Norway is also affected by the international financial crisis. We see that unemployment is on the way up now, especially in the construction sector. Having an active labour market policy is therefore crucial for the future of the situation. I am glad that the government has been pressing all the way, even at a time of low unemployment, to have a high level of action and to get more people working, and to secure the day-to-day pay system. Major cuts both in action and in the day-to-day arrangements were the situation prior to the government change in 2005, and policies for parts of the opposition are clearly still in place. In a time of increasing unemployment, it is completely incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e902	When I started planning which areas of our budget I wanted to comment on, it struck me that I could have strictly taken that post that I had three years ago, or two years ago, or last year. All the issues, the shortcomings and the challenges I've addressed from this pulpit in the last three years are still there. Enquiries from individuals deal with exactly the same thing today as three years ago. The only difference I've experienced is that the number of requests just increases. According to St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, the proportion of persons employed among disabled persons was 45.3 pst. in the second quarter of 2007. This was the same level as the previous year. According to the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, the figure for 2008 is 45 pst., i.e. a slight decrease. Despite a strong focus and commitment on this topic, there are still about 90,000 people with disabilities who state that they are not at work, but who want them to be. Many people experience disability due to the solutions chosen for the design of buildings, the outdoor environment, products, services and, above all, transport solutions. We know this, and therefore the work on the Discrimination and Accessibility Act was very important to many. It was, of course, very disappointing that the law lacked both deadlines and not least follow-up with money. The Progress Party has put forward proposals for and allocated funds for both concrete deadlines and follow-up to funding in its alternative state budget. At least we take the law seriously. Furthermore, in its alternative state budget, the Progress Party has allocated several hundred million extras to the follow-up and treatment of people in relation to disease and injury. By eliminating waiting times at all stages, we will achieve significant savings on payments of all types of benefits. It is simply impossible to understand that the government prefers to pay disability benefits years out and years in rather than offering the necessary operation. It's also impossible to understand that the government thinks it's okay that people go sick for months while waiting for surgery, physical therapy or rehabilitation. The examples of this happening are too many. It seems that it is completely impossible to take simple steps to improve everyday life for those who have difficulties: the car system, TT driving, work and education trips, service dogs, reading and writing assistance and care pay. There are many examples. We have arrangements, but they do not work well or turn out unfairly, and the schemes are often trial projects for years with the uncertainty that this entails for the user. This could not possibly be due to a lack of money. In Telen on 17 September we could read about a man who applied for Nav for NOK 6000 in support of training. He was refused, but he was offered 80 000 kroner for another form of training. Also such stories there are many of them. People get a rejection of what they think is best, but they are offered something else, which costs a lot more. At least it can't be called common sense. We know where the shoe prints. That is why, over the last three years and to a large extent in our alternative budget, we have followed up on requests from us by making proposals. Despite the fact that the proposals have previously been promoted by the government parties, or that the government parties tell the media to clean up, they vote for the proposals when they are there. It means that the next year too will be filled with requests from the desperate people who are struggling in their everyday lives. And that means that neither sick leave, as the government itself has foreseen, will be unchanged in 2009, nor new leave on disability, will go down. This budget is simply not an invitation to succeed in the objectives set.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e925	After Robert Eriksson's contribution, I can draw two conclusions. One is that he and I have obviously played football on completely different levels, probably also half of the track. The second is that the alternative budget of the Progress Party has already taken account of the unemployment that will come in the next year. That's probably why they cut a quarter of a billion dollars in the appropriations for the apparatus to deal with unemployment, and they cut another half a billion dollars in what might be called the qualification programmes. The right-wing parties usually have only one solution to most problems, namely tax relief for those who have the most, less to the community and an infallible belief that the market will deal with the rest. The economic cycle of such a policy is, fortunately, declining over time. But if that were the case once, that the capital owners immediately put the capital into productive labor, the tax argumentation might have had something to do with it. But it's not like that! Former Swedish Communist leader H. C. Hermansson, who certainly had not so much good to say about capitalism, asserted in his time that he favoured large-scale capitalists like the Wallenbergs over the newly-rich property owners, because the former led the capital back to the companies. As a result of the international financial crisis, investment in industry is now declining. We've got, and will get, an increasing number of bankruptcies because the market just fails. When the sales of new cars are halved, not only the car industry is hit, but also the car and car manufacturers. That's when the shipping industry is also hit. When we stop investing in new housing, office and business buildings, there will be unemployment in the construction and construction industries. But then the answer is not tax relief. That's why today's look-up in the Evening Post is a blow on the face of the opposition parties. Here it is stated that three out of four who will receive tax relief will put the tax relief in the bank or pay off loans with them. 19 billion dollars in tax cuts will only give 2,500 new jobs. Therefore, the answer is rather public investment in schools, hospitals, roads and railways. And we need to set up schemes to enable municipalities to tackle long-term maintenance and rehabilitation work. The government is doing well. Once again, we need to use the public sector to combat unemployment and create new places of work and action. It is equally important to take care of and further develop the knowledge and competences of the labour market that can provide the basis for new and secure jobs in the future. That's why it's so important that we do what we can to prevent working people from becoming unemployed as passive social-security workers over time. We know what unemployment does to people, with their self-esteem, social status and position. We need to use the time we go into, briefly, to upgrade the knowledge and competence of the labour market and encourage the innovatory capacity of society. Schemes such as intra-corporate training and educational vicariates are probably suitable for this purpose. In recent years, the demand for labour has been so high that the vast majority, including those usually referred to at the back of the line of work, have received a job. In addition, we have imported thousands of workers from other countries. I just stress that in the time that comes, we also have a responsibility for these. Finally, I must remind the representatives of the Left that the Government has today presented an innovation message, a big message, about innovation in both public and private activities. There, the Left will find a lot of good reading!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e940	Equality and non-discrimination are fundamental values in our society. Norway signed last year the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We aim to put forward a proposal on ratification of the UN Convention in 2009. The Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination Due to Disabilities enters into force on 1 January 2009. The law fills a gap in Norwegian legislation on discrimination and puts Norway in the front of the Nordic region as regards the protection of discrimination in this area. In the new year 2009, the government will present a new action plan on increased accessibility and universal design to support the implementation of the law. Key areas for this plan shall be construction, outdoors and planning, transport, ICT and work. The action plan shall contain concrete actions with deadlines in priority areas. The content shall be consistent with sectoral governance documents, such as: National transport plan. We in Norway are facing large investments in different sectors. My goal is that every krone going to new investments or maintenance should as far as possible promote universal design. The new action plan is a tool for achieving this objective. When the new law comes into force, we are in a new phase. We still have a lot of challenges, but now we've got a very important tool to work from. I notice that a joint committee is essentially in agreement with the proposals of the Government. I also record that the minority comments express impatience. I share this impatience and believe that the Government, through a new legal framework and a priority approach to different sectors and building categories, will provide the basis for good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e955	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e958	We can read that the Secretary-General, Lars Ødegård, believes that it will take hundreds of years for all public buildings to be accessible to everyone. He said this with reference to the lack of follow-up to the Discrimination and Availability Act in this budget. Is the Council of State proud that the Government has already forgotten the new law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e965	This government is working very actively to achieve the objectives of the new law, and in the action plan we will address the individual building categories. But it is also important to remember that this society spends a lot of money on maintenance and initial investment. The main challenge is to get this money to contribute to universal design. And then we'll come back to which building categories we give priority to first. We will come back to that in the new action plan, including:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e971	First, I wish the Council of State good luck ratifying the UN Convention. My question concerns the Anti-Discrimination Act, which was a major step forward in facilitating a society accessible to all. But the law doesn't go far enough. Take, for example: deaf and hearing impaired. They want subtitles for films and TV broadcasts, so they can get information and follow along. The Christian People's Party, together with the rest of the opposition, therefore proposes that all films and all television broadcasts should be texted in the interest of the hearing-impaired. They will end the discrimination that results in more than 600 000 people not getting important information on TV. What will the Government do? Government parties have as one of their slogans: ‘Everybody is going along.’ That’s good and good, but when is everyone going along?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e983	Information and communication expressions were not sufficiently identified by the Syse Committee. That's why we're investigating it further now. With regard to the subtitles of television broadcasts and films by which the representative is involved, the Ministry of Culture and the Church is now investigating them with a view to making demands on the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e988	It's not that long since we in another room had an open question time for children. In these difficult times, there is no doubt that children in low-income families can be less involved in leisure activities than children in other families. This is part of creating a stigmatisation. Now we see, as we've been in the past, a series of bankruptcies and that many lose their jobs. I will not ask any business-related questions to the Minister, but does she agree with me that it is important to focus on this now when we will see that more people will have an outsidership in terms of activities – more children having a bit of difficulty at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e995	I'm very pleased with that question, because one of the issues we're going to look at in the field of child protection is how we can use some of the child-rescue measures to contribute to being included in different recreational sectors. One thing is to have a support contact as a close, adult friend, but perhaps it may be equally important that that support contact brings you into leisure activities. There may be a support contact in the protection of the child, or there may be a support contact for a disabled child. That's what I'm concerned about. I'm also concerned that other arenas, such as cultural schools, shall be more accessible to all. It's too expensive for many. I am also concerned that municipalities can facilitate good, active recreational settings. These include: what we support in this state budget. Through the impoverishment of poverty, this state budget within the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality facilitates more leisure venues for all children.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1006	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1011	I must say as a meeting alternate that it is very cold here. In Norway, we have long and good traditions of tripartite cooperation in the workplace, and in 2001 we concluded the IA agreement, with which everyone is familiar. Perhaps we can describe the vision of the IA agreement in the following way: we're going to take care of the best in the welfare state, but we're going to be wise managers of the common good. We're going to develop working life into an inclusive place by adapting the work of people instead of people to work. To reach this vision, work must be done at different levels of repair, prevention and development. This requires a change in routines, technologies, competences and culture. Only when all of this is part of our culture can we say that we've made a change. The last few years’ work has led to a much greater focus on the areas of the agreement. We have greater search lights on numbers, personal follow-up and organisation, and experience clearly shows that the closer and faster the follow-up we can do, the faster people get back to work. The entire IA agreement is an agreement, an exchange between the government and the employer. The agreement outlines quite clear procedures for the work and contains some quite extensive commitments for the parties. That is why I have to repeat how surprised I am about the proposals from the Christian People's Party in the budget position to cancel the employer and/or employee with a liability of 10 p.m. if the conditions for a dialogue meeting during the sick leave period are not met. I repeat: this is simply a cut in today's sick pay system. In my view, the proposal is a clear breach of the terms of the IA agreement. The proposal says that the Storting should ask the Government to draw up and submit proposals, without prior negotiations between the parties. Then the entire basis for the agreement will fall. It surprises me that the Christian People's Party wants to risk this cooperation, and I also registered that I did not receive a response from the Christian People's Party representative in a previous line if this was actually the intention. My experience with dialogue meetings shows that it is not necessarily the employer or employee who is absent from meetings. The challenge, on the other hand, is great for other actors, such as the medical profession and representatives of the state at Nav. Then, in my opinion, it would be even more pointless to cut off the sick pay to the two parties that are actually the drivers of the work. The challenges within the IA agreement are major. Many parties make the work demanding. But from my point of view, it will be impossible not to continue the work and meet the challenges we face in a positive and offensive way. Maybe we should turn around the problem and ask ourselves the following questions: what makes people work? What makes us stand up every day and do our work? Through such debates, we will have new opportunities to organise and prevent even more than today, instead of focusing on proposals that lead the debate in a completely wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1026	The centre lot is engaged in restricting access to temporary employment. Permanent employment must be maintained as a norm in Norwegian business and employment. Bad times can lead to a tougher work life. It is now important to get a social dumping bulwark in place. Action Plan 2 against social dumping was presented in this State budget. In the Central Party, we are concerned that Norway should at all times abide by the anti-social dumping legislation that it considers necessary to ensure a healthy business life. We strengthen the fight against social dumping, inter alia: by strengthening the Labour Inspectorate. It is therefore amazing that individual parties will cut the appropriations for the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Inspectorate and STAMI – the Statens Arbeitsweltsinstitutt. Facilitation is important to make work and education available to disabled persons. The Discrimination and Accessibility Act introduced obligations for individual organisation of work and work for employers and for the place of teaching and education of school and educational institutions. In order for us to be able to fill the intention of the law, the facilities must function well and with as short waiting times as practicable. Finally, I will focus on a few minor, but nevertheless important, measures in this comprehensive budget. Blind and partially sighted people have not received support for visual aids such as reading lists, speech or magnifying programs for use on PCs. Now it's settled. We are very pleased about that, because such aids are absolutely essential for this group to be able to use PCs in everyday life. There's a lot of our privacy that is eventually also organized from the PC. It is therefore not reasonable to link such aids only to work and education. I think it is good that we should continue to try to train service dogs. There's no reason to hide that we're impatient to get this into more solid forms. It's amazing to see these dogs in action. Service dogs can help with clothing, washing clothes and changing beds. They can carry, open doors, move persons, pick up items, alerts in case of attack and increase independence. I believe this in the long term will prove to be socio-economically profitable. It also gives increased well-being, independence and sense of security, which are important for the people involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1039	As I said in the line exchange instead, I was in a debate with Yngve Högensen for some time back in the Ski, where he made it clear that developments in the labour market would escalate quite sharply if action were not taken to next year. So now we're dealing with the budget for next year, and the measures are not here. In fact, the government parties say that the budget takes into account the challenges we face next year, while they talk about getting a so-called package. At best, it means they're doing some kind of double communication here. On the one hand, they say that the budget takes everything into account; on the other hand, they say that a new package is needed to solve the problems. For the Progress Party, it is important that we take into account in the budgetary procedure the problems to come next year as regards the development of the financial crisis. Therefore, the Progress Party has made substantial efforts to increase its activity. One of the reasons why we lower the tax and tax levels is that we will raise the consumption. Because when you use more in society, you have to produce more, and that production is mostly done in Norway. That means that trade is increasing, and more people are getting to work. There's a lot of perception here in the country and abroad that you're doing it to counteract the financial crisis. So the maintenance of municipal buildings is so poor in many places that there is an enormous need to initiate measures. Therefore, the Progress Party spends SEK 3 billion on increased maintenance and new construction of schools, swimming pools etc. to get people in the building industry to work. So we do the same thing when it comes to transportation. We use considerable resources to increase the construction of new roads and to maintain old roads. This is an aftertaste that everyone knows it's necessary, but you don't do anything about it. So you could say, what does it have to do with the financial crisis and jobs? Yes, as I have said earlier today, the Association of Engineers says that within a few months they will have 30 pst. available capacity, in six months they will have 50 pst. free capacity and in one year they will have 80 pst. available capacity. This means that many of these people go from full-time construction work to maintenance, raising daily pay or taking labour market measures. Then it makes more sense that we spend the money on this. Then there is a proposal in the Chamber to use labour market measures when there is a need. I figured that something was mandatory, something you could do anyway, as long as you stayed within the appropriations, but it's a proposal that the Progress Party has no problem supporting. We will therefore vote in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1054	It is a very well-known debate technique to use the following strategy in a political debate: first, a number of undocumented, erroneous statements about a political opponent are made, and then one goes against the claims to give the impression that that is what the political opponent thinks. We have seen more examples of this in this debate. I think it's a debate trick that several of those who have participated in this debate have learned either at the LO school or at the AUF summer camp. It would have served the political debate to the credit if you could put yourself at a slightly different level in the political debate and served by arguments that were correct, and not held a level of factuality that best suits a heated school election meeting in a campaign interview. These include: It is claimed that the Right is the closest member of social dumping — that is at least the impression you are trying to leave behind. I would like to remind you that the Right Repeatedly, in three budgets in a row now, has proposed a strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate in addition to what the Government has proposed, and we have been involved in a number of measures proposed by the Government itself, which relate to measures against social dumping – let me, among other things. mentioned building and civil engineering ID cards. We are also trailers of ID cards in the cleaning industry. We have proposed on a number of occasions that the contracting entity, at the time of conclusion of the contract, require proof from a manning undertaking or subcontractor that the subcontractor has made a promise to comply with the conditions of pay and employment laid down in the public service regulations. Furthermore, it shall be documented that the subcontractor is registered with and has sent information to the tax authorities and that the subcontractor is registered in the Brønnøysund Registers. A tax certificate must be submitted and a company certificate from the home Member State must be provided to mention something. So we're advocating a number of proposals, and we've also gone further than the government in several areas. But the fact that we are not supporters of individual proposals is used in a rather primitive way, as we have seen in this debate. I'm sorry to have to say that. With regard to the issue of collective pay agreements, I would like to acknowledge on behalf of the Right – and stress – that there are many major advantages to the organisation of both enterprises and employees, and that there is a clean social environment in this way. That's very good. But in fact, there is still freedom of organisation in this country, both for employers and workers, and then it cannot be produced in such a way that everything that is not publicised or covered by collective collective bargaining agreements is the same as social dumping. That's what you can get the idea of when you hear some of the arguments here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1065	It's a mistrust of private business. I'm not going to go into what Gullvåg brought into his great faith in a former Swedish Communist leader, but I don't know if new collectiveism is the answer for the future. I am very grateful that we have good reading material in the small businesses, and it could be a hope that something that was positive there too – I hope so, but I haven't read it yet. As I said, the left is happy in these small businesses. And then we're going to hope that that love might also spread to the government parties as well. I can't stop getting into Andersen's harange against Left's feeding chapter, to which I would like to add a few comments. In fact, in addition to the government's proposal, the Left Food Chapter strengthens by nearly SEK 4.6 billion, so that it is not undisputed that we are, of course, making some priorities, it is a matter of course. The left supports business with SEK 4.6 billion more than what today's government does. Finally, I would just like to say briefly that the Left will support proposal No. 41. Of course we do, assuming that the situation is as it is, and if we're also going to review in February. We had faith that we had a budget to deal with now, but it might seem like we have to revise it many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1076	Just a few small comments at the end of a long debate. It was really the line from Kari Kjenaas Kjos to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality that made me draw in the first place. When claims are made here that it's going to take hundreds of years before universal design is completed in Norway, I don't think it could be undisputed, even if it was in the form of quotes from another person. Because, as the Council of State was about to do, there will be an action plan where priority will be given, where we will eventually have deadlines. I think that in this discussion we should not forget the effect of new planning and building laws, with the part of the plan, which has been adopted, and where there are clear instructions to consider disabled people, and not least that part of the new planning and building law, which should have been dealt with here in the Chamber on 20 November, but which the opposition made sure to get at least the end of February. So there are a few months lost, but in connection with the law and the regulatory work on it, it's also going to be more concrete. But once again, I see that the opposition is kind of not quite able to get involved in the criticisms here, because here one cracks again in every direction. The Progress Party refers to existing buildings in 2025, the Christian People's Party in 2019, the Left in 2020 – and has also insisted that existing means of transport should be universally designed in 2025. So once again, you kind of can't get all together. Then I've seen that Robert Eriksson has drawn himself afterwards. That is good, because I have a small challenge for the Progress Party because their budget is completely unrealistic. It's not being implemented. It has been said clearly and clearly by the Right and other potential partners: the Progress Party will not have a clean majority in this Chamber. We can take from that article in the Evening Post today where the SSB announces possible 120 000 new unemployed people if nothing is done, and then we take the other information in the same article: about 19 billion in tax squares and 2 500 jobs – an indirect road – 7.6 million. kr to create one job via tax havens. The proposal of the Progress Party would then give about. 3 684 jobs. If you spend the money on goods and services, you get a four times as many jobs out of them. If you spend your money directly into public employment, you get 16 times as many jobs for that money. So a challenge for the Progress Party must be: what about using their 28 billion for public employment instead of for tax relief? It would provide 59 000 jobs according to the SSB figures. A little visit to the Right in the end: your NOK 6.4 billion in tax bills used in another way could give 13,500 new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1094	We thank you for all the challenges, and we'll try as far as the time goes, to get them out as well. But the first thing I want to focus on was what was originally said earlier today, both by the representative Karin Andersen and the representative Lise Christoffersen. I noticed that the representative Lise Christoffersen pointed out that the previous government had almost done nothing to combat poverty, and that poverty had increased sharply during that time. Then I find it interesting to read the address of May 8th this year, where it says: ‘The red-green government is struggling to eradicate poverty. Fresh figures show that Norway received 10,000 more poor in the first year with a red-green government.’ Then you read on in the same article: ‘Statistical Central Bureau presented figures showing that 196,000 lived in poor households after one year of red-green government, compared with 185,000 in the last year of the Bondevik II government.’ [[...]] So here, in fact, I think that the government parties should show some kind of honesty and honesty when referring to numbers from this pulpit. I am somewhat disappointed – with respect to reporting to all political parties’ own policies – with much of the debate that has been created so far. I am disappointed that some representatives are trying to come up with the characteristics – which the representative Engeset was also involved in – of the policies of other parties that have been taken completely out of a description of reality, which is not really messed up at all. I think the government parties here today have been more prominent as Comedian Ali during America's innovation war in Iraq. It was also seen at the time that the Americans were on their way in, and that the bombing forecast had gone down in Iraq. But it was claimed that no Americans were near the country. Similarly, these government parties are trying to plant erroneous description of the reality of politics into the other batches. So finally, in the fight against poverty, the Progress Party has been involved in doing something about the minimum rates of rehabilitation. We've done something about the minimum rates for reintroduction, and we've done something about the minimum rates for young people. Yes, the Progress Party has also, even in the State budget of the year, chosen to propose an increase in the minimum pension of up to 2 G, and it will not exceed several years, but will take place in one year. We've done that for years in a row without getting support in this room. But the big difference, and the contrast between the Progress Party and the other parties, is that the Progress Party grants the concrete means to achieve these benefits, and to get the benefits up to the level you want – as opposed to the majority in this Chamber, which sends the bill to the Norwegian people: to disability pensioners, survivors' pensions and old age pensioners, by taking them away.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1124	There were some statements from Steinar Gullvåg that led me to take the floor – and now Lise Christoffersen was a little bit inside, too, that the tax authorities were going to give so little effect. And then it was shown that this might give only 2,500 jobs. I actually react to such characteristics in just 2,500 jobs. So it's 2,500 people who would get a better life. So if we assume that these are part of a household of four, it hits 10,000 people in our country. So that's the second claim that then you'd probably just pay off loans. Yeah, so there's a lot of people around our country who don't manage to serve their loans today. It would be great if they could manage their loans instead of having to sell the dwelling with losses. Things have to hang out a little bit, I think, when you discuss. The tax havens are not only proposed for individuals. It's about companies surviving. When I hear Lise Christoffersen's calculation of how many jobs it could be by doing it differently, I just want to say that if we look a little longer than two, three years, the country cannot survive if absolutely everyone is going to work in the public sector, and all the private businesses are shut down. It's the ones that create a lot of the well-being that we use. And once again, 2,500 jobs are very important for the 2,500 we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1140	There will be challenges to poverty in the future, especially when we face difficult times. But it's a fact that we're now increasing the minimum pension, and there's fresh money added to it. You're allowed to adjust it up to 2 G. We're significantly increasing housing support. 40000–50000 more households will be entitled to housing support. We have increased social assistance, there are fewer unemployed today than there have been in many years, there are many who are at work. So I think the Progress Party has to update its numbers a little bit. But I will not underestimate that many people have difficulty and that there are many challenges ahead. We have to work seriously with everyone. So I want to say a little bit to the debate that's going on now, about what we're going to do in the future. I would encourage the opposition to use the opportunity now to be a little constructive and make suggestions that are well thought out, because this isn't about much and fast, but about what's going to be right, which makes us get most jobs back for the money. It may not be right to take the most expensive proposals that create fewer jobs, for example. Then you can come up with the proposals that have demonstrated the effect of getting people to work, who do not intend to increase the difference between poor and rich, and who also contribute to the solution of climate change. Then I think we can start discussing this a little bit more constructively. It is also important that the measures we are putting in now do not help to keep interest rates high or rebound, because we know that is one of the most difficult for people who are now struggling with high mortgages, etc. Several have been talking about measures for maintenance, for availability, for energy savings, etc. There may also be a need for changes in some legislation. I would encourage the parties to be constructive in this. But if you make proposals that will increase the difference between the poor and the rich, or that could result in interest rates replenishing, or that we will have even greater problems with climate change in the future, it is not the proposal that is easy to accept. But I guess all the parties have good suggestions that they can now record, so that we can get them along when we're working on the measures we're going to have in the future. Because that's not what the opposition says, that the government parties and the government don't see that we're in a serious situation. Well, we see that, but I think maybe the opposition should also be a little bit more careful with being so sloppy that they know absolutely everything right now about what's right to put in action now. But I can assure you that the Government is working on measures, and most of us are genuinely concerned about getting good proposals for action. But if you come back with proposals for tax relief when the SSB clearly says that tax cuts are bad medicine for unemployment, and that there are other measures that are better, there is a little waste of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1149	Kenneth Svendsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1152	I have to say I'm reacting a little bit to the post that Karin Andersen had. In fact, I think it's kind of straightforward what was said here, that the opposition should come up with thoughtful proposals. I assume that that means that the proposals that the opposition has made are not perceived as being thought of. I'll take that at the strongest distance from it. The proposals put forward have nothing to do with discrimination against poor and rich, nor do they create greater inequalities. Maintenance of municipal buildings will, of course, lead to more people working, and it's exactly the same with building roads. Then the representative spoke to Karin Andersen that we had to be constructive. I think I can talk for the whole civil side when I say that on repeated occasions we have tried to be constructive. We have put forward proposals to discuss solutions, but they have been clearly rejected by the position. They have not taken them into account at all, and I find that regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1161	The word 'frekt' is not a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1164	It is all right in advance to be aware of what you should not say, because I also have to say that I reacted to Mr Andersen's comments, when it is actually the case that the opposition – I can speak for the Christian People's Party – in the financial position proposes a package of measures of just EUR 5 billion which is about to strengthen the sectors that are now the most vulnerable. After the examination of the financial position, it has become further clear that they are the most vulnerable. And then it is said that you are not constructive, and you suggest tax havens. In our package there was a tax share of well a couple of hundred million dollars that went exclusively to avoid the sharper government felt it was appropriate to get into this situation. So the government has freeness of speech until the day before the financial debate to tell Stortinget that, yes, it comes with a package of measures in January/February – after hearings and after the Central Bank Governor's warning that it will be zero growth in the Norwegian economy next year, it has clearly refused to enter into any dialogue with the opposition. And then you're going to come here and teach the opposition what is decent political behavior. I don't think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1171	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1174	It was a very surprising reaction to an article in which I meant to invite you to just listen to what the opposition is putting on the table, but it must be based on the situation we are today. When I talk about constructiveity, it's more about the debate we have, where the opposition is lubricating with Blue Swix, whether it's ten minus degrees or ten plus degrees. We have said that the major tax proposals made by the citizens are not up to date. But we're going to look at all the proposals that are coming. Then we're going to present a package to do what we can, in a situation where it's the international financial crisis and the world market situation that makes it difficult in the Norwegian economy. That means, unfortunately, we don't have control everywhere. Then it's important that we spend the money properly, and that the money benefits those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1179	Sometimes I am unsure whether you listen to what is being said. Now Karin Andersen talked again about us lubricating with Blå Swix – that probably means tax breaks. I'm trying to say that from the Christian People's Party, we have proposed a package of 5 billion kroner, of which tax credits targeted at business amount to 200 million. kr. If the representative has read our package of measures, she knows that it is the municipalities that are going to benefit very much from the package we have proposed. – But it’s okay, we can turn the other side around and say that we are positive about the dialogue that the Government has invited to, one day before we adopted the budget for next year. Then I hope that there is also some resonance in the proposals that the opposition comes with, without going on an autopilot, which I feel the representative Andersen is doing, in terms of characterising the opposition's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1201	There is a great deal of consensus here in this case. There are two points which the Progress Party wants to vote against, and we also have a proposal. One applies to cap. 667 Supplementary social assistance for persons with short butide in Norway. This is a system we've been against all along, and we're going to vote against it. The other applies to cap. 660, about cutting into a war pension. Here we suggest that we use the money to grant more applications from the victims of the Holen School bombing. I'm dealing with that proposal. In addition, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to make a proposal for II, which has fallen into force in the event of an incubation. I am also addressing that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1210	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1098]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1220	Then Stortinget went to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1228	During the debate, 41 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 38, from Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 2–12, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 13–16, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 17-20, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 21-23, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposals No. 24–33, by Mr Svendsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 34, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 35 and 36, by Martin Engeset, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 37, from Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 39 and 40, by André N. Skielstad, on behalf of the Left, proposal No. 41, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 1–40 is included in the position on pages 65–75, while proposal No. 41 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39 and 40, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e1290	The vote on the motions for resolutions will take place at the next voting time. 1 and 38, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e3762	There is a vote on proposal No. 37 from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e3778	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35 and 36, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e3802	There is a vote on proposal No. 34, from the right and left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to maintain its obligations to make the PRO Centre a national centre of excellence for prostitutes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e3817	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24–33, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to make municipal social assistance a State responsibility under NAV.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e3886	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21–23, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that glass surfaces on buildings are marked in the interest of the visually impaired by 1 January 2011.’» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the universal design deadline for information and communication technologies is set at 1 January 2019.’ [[ICT]] Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case with a view to removing the ceiling for reading and writing aids for the blind and partially sighted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e3914	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17-20, from the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a cheap compensation scheme for the cave dwellers and the forced deportees in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, and asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the universal design deadline for new buildings from 1 July 2009 will be considered as an exact deadline.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government requests that the possibility of relying on a disproportionate burden be removed after the deadlines for each category of construction, site, outdoors, transport and ICT have been set and reached. Public-sector measures do not initially have the right to rely on a disproportionate burden.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the assessment of alternative financial instruments and the level of financial support for the universal design of existing buildings/installations and outdoor areas aimed at the public. It is assumed that the aid scheme will not fully finance actions and that payments will not be made until the activities concerned use their own funds for the actions. It is assumed that the aid schemes shall not cover ordinary maintenance or refurbishment costs.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e3946	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13, 15 and 16, from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e3990	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Government in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2009 to make proposals to abolish the waiting pay scheme for new cases from 2010.’» The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e4007	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-12, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for permanent arrangements for travel by work and education for disabled persons.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e4076	Proposal No. 41, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the President shall return.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e6547	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 41, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to make available the action appropriations under the heading. 634 item 76 so that labour market measures can be applied where the labour market situation so warrants.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e6564	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Svendsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Labour and Social Committee Proposal No. 1 has been included in the setting on page 4, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that several of the applications made by the victims of the Holen School bombing are granted their applications for a war pension with cover already in the 2008 state budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e6590	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote and, in this respect, the President shall draw attention to the fact that proposal No. 2, from the Labour and Social Committee, contains a mandate which, by mistake, has not been included in the printed setting. This is therefore addressed to voting together with the vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e7955	The Progress Party has announced that they wish to vote against Chapters 660 and 667. So these chapters are the first to be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e7966	It is then put together to discuss the Committee's position on the remaining chapters of I and proposal No. 2, from the Labour and Social Committee. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Other Powers II Addition of Keywords: The Storting agrees that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion may add the keyword ‘transferable’ to the opening under the cover. 601 Investigation, research, etc. entry 70 Tilkot, in the 2008 state budget.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-05.ana.ud1125e7993	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
