ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e77	The representative Heikki Holmås, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e85	On behalf of the representatives of Torbjørn Andersen, Tord Lien, Kåre Fostervold and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for a comprehensive hydropower deployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e90	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e96	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as chairpersons for Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e112	There is an overall control and constitution committee that sees positively the way the Riksaudition presents its activities for 2007, with professional input structured in a clear and balanced way. A comprehensive committee emphasises and focuses on the Riksrevision framework conditions which, through audit, control and guidance, will contribute to the collection of revenue by the State as intended, and the use and management of resources and values by the State in an economically sound manner and in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. The Committee notes that the Court of Auditors reiterates its repeated violations of the rules on public procurement in most departments and departments in terms of competition and non-discrimination. We welcome the fact that the Riksrevision assumes that increased use of e-commerce will provide better, simpler and safer procurement in the public sector, combined with the new established framework conditions of the e-commerce Secretariat in 2007. These new tools, as interpreted by the Committee, will lead to a better review of all stages of the procurement process, which will, in turn, help prevent possible corruption. Competence measures for those responsible for procurement will also ensure better compliance with the procurement rules, as the Committee has noted. There is also good reason to hope that the public debate on the use of consultants and the purchase of consultancy services will increase the attention in the Directorates and departments to comply with the procurement rules to prevent government councils from being placed in a somewhat poor light in public opinion. Int. S. No 195 for 2005-2006 on the National Audit Office’s notification of the operation had a unanimous opinion that: ‘the need for the public to build public access to transparency in its main and largest contracts with private actors in the contract text, as well as access to specific questions on specific issues through the selected auditors of the respective private companies’. The Committee is very pleased that this is being followed up by the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, which has started work on legislative regulation. However, the members of the Progress Party in the Committee believe that it would initially have been sufficient to obtain new statutes/rounds for all public procurements, which could contain a standard contract point which provides the Riksaudition with the necessary transparency as needed by private actors through their selected auditors. However, if this had not been done, the members of the Progress Party agree that a change in the law would be the way to go. Maybe you could try it a little bit more easily right away. Recent developments have shown that it is difficult for many to keep track of all the laws and regulations that apply to society, and perhaps some indicative standard contract points would have been better. But there's an overall committee that's positive that the comment has been followed up. The Committee also has views on the assessment and treatment of the Pension Fund by the National Audit Office. The majority are satisfied that this is currently reported in a separate document to the Stortinget, with the analyses and reporting by the Ministry of Finance today of risks and returns. However, the minority, members of the Progress Party, is of the opinion that the Riksrevision should carry out an annual review of its international positioning of revenues from oil and gas production, which should also include necessary analyses, statistics and risk profile, i.e. a somewhat more detailed mandate for the Riksrevision. I allow myself to comment on the proposal that is included on page 6 of the setting. Let me also mention that the Committee has taken note of the high level of activity that the Riksrevision can now point to, where the report to the Stortinget in 2007 constituted a total of 16 comprehensive management audit reports, while 30 administrative audits were started and continued in 2008. There is, therefore, a significant level of activity in the Riksrevision, in line with the decisions and recommendations made by the Stortinget in the past. Finally, I would like to mention that the Committee is in favour of the Riksrevision, which enjoys great respect and has a good reputation. However, in terms of the manning situation, we will implement the necessary measures to maintain the seniors in the National Audit Office. An overall committee believes that it is important in today’s labour market to keep the seniors as well. Even when there is a shortage of labour, the National Audit Office must assess the necessary measures to maintain the high level of competence built up by their many years of work in the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e136	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Fotation, see page 3749]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e157	The objective of the National Audit Office’s administrative audit has been to examine the efforts of the authorities to reduce NOx emissions in order to meet the commitments set out in the Gothenburg Protocol, signed in 1999. The study includes the sectors highlighted by the authorities as essential for achieving NOx reduction targets and addresses the following issues: Has the development of NOx emissions been satisfactory from the commitments set out in the Gothenburg Protocol? Has the Ministry of the Environment fulfilled its responsibility as overall environmental authority by following the NOx emissions targets in an appropriate manner? Has the use of instruments to address individual sources been sufficient to contribute to the reduction of NOx emissions? The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee points out that the National Audit Office’s investigation provides a fine professional overview within a very complex area. We note that in 1999, Norway signed the Gothenburg Protocol on the reduction of gases, including nitrogen oxides - NOx - which leads to acidification, eutrophication and ground-based ozone. On several points, the Committee has shared a majority and a minority. The majority, consisting of the government's fractions, indicates that perhaps a better job could have been done in the past, before the sitting government was formed. However, there is an overall committee that records that the Riksrevision study concludes that it is unlikely that Norway will meet the commitments of the Gothenburg Protocol on NOx reduction down to 156 000 tonnes by 2010. I assume that the Council of State will explain in more detail how the Government intends to undertake the work to reach, if possible, the commitments undertaken by Norway. The Committee has noted that the study has been thoroughly analysed and documented with statistical data from the SSB, supplemented by necessary documents, meetings and interviews. It appears that the main sources of emissions in Norway are all ships in Norwegian waters, offshore petroleum activities, road traffic and the mainland industry. The Committee notes that shipping and offshore activities have shown increasing emissions, while NOx emissions from road traffic and the mainland industry are decreasing. The Committee has also noted that offshore petroleum activities are over 30 pst. of the national emissions, where the energy installations represent 90 pst., while the run-off of gases, flares, contributes to 10 pst. of the emissions. The use of low-NOx offshore technology is the most effective of the measures and the Committee records the approval by authorities of the development and operation plan of operators, PUD, as a central instrument for regulating the NOx emissions from the offshore sector. So we have the means here to achieve significant reductions if we don't get the desired effect from the newly established NOx fund. There is a minority comment from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, where we question the discrimination between the Norwegian fishing fleet and coastal shipping, among other things. the high-speed vessels and the international maritime, cruise and ferry traffic from Norwegian ports, which are not subject to any NOx charge at all. We consider the situation to be a significant distortion of competition in which Norwegian interests and industries become victims. While coastal shipping and fishing are subject to increased tax burden, on the other hand, the daily and many ferry departures from Norwegian ports to Germany and Denmark as well as the rapidly increasing cruise traffic in Norwegian waters release these economic burdens. It is a relationship that these members hope can be corrected, as the NOx charges themselves do not reduce emissions. It only makes the development of technology and fleet renewal. I would also ask the Council of State to note these points of view and to comment on how to prevent this distortion of competition, which is a consequence, and which nevertheless has little impact on NOx emissions, as it is the technological development that governs it. The Committee also points out that, following the submission of the National Audit Office's report, a NOx Fund has been established for industry. We point out that the Stortinget decided in December 2006 to set up a fund scheme, but that it took a long time to establish a mandate for the negotiations, and that this did not take place before the autumn of 2007. After agreement was reached in January 2008 on the main points of an agreement, the Ministry of the Environment has taken a long time to complete the notification to ESA so that the agreement could not be signed until 14 May 2008. The Committee points out that due to these circumstances it has not been possible for the Riksrevision to assess the impact of the new NOx Fund scheme, but we have reason to believe that this would have a positive impact on the reduction of Norwegian NOx emissions. I also ask the Council of State to provide information on any knowledge in this area as to whether the NOx Fund appears to be working as expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e240	The National Audit Office's report is a very comprehensive criticism of the shortcomings in the implementation of the commitments undertaken by Norway by signing the Gothenburg Protocol in 1999, as the rapporteur has reviewed. There are at the same time few of the reports of the Riksrevision that so many governments and parties have to be responsible for, like this one. The commitments of the Gothenburg Protocol to reduce NOx emissions were signed in 1999, by the Bondevik I Government with the Left’s Guro Mountains as Minister for the Environment. Then the Stoltenberg I government, with the Workers' Party Siri Bjerke in the Ministry of the Environment, assumed responsibility. Then came the Bondevik II government, first with Røjres Børge Brende, then with the Christian People's Party Knut Arild Hareide, before today's government, with an environmental protection minister from the Socialist Left Party, occupied the department. There have been four governments where all parties, except the rapporteur's, have been represented, and six environmental protection ministers have had the chance, but not seized it, to start work on doing what is necessary. And if the case rapporteur will certainly do his party's innocence, at least the party was the birth helper for the government that has had the longest time on it, even if it didn't take so long before the Earthfather denied responsibility for the child. I think we will take this matter as a serious reminder that signing an international agreement is not enough. The signature must be followed up with concrete measures to achieve good objectives. With the seriousness of the climate turmoil, we have to allow the Riksrevisions to be an inspiration to all to do what is necessary to comply with the Gothenburg Protocol. There is still time to achieve the objectives. It is still possible to shame the predictions of the Riksrevision that the objectives are not being achieved. And it is possible to achieve reductions in environmentally harmful emissions. The Gothenburg Protocol also sets emission ceilings for sulphur, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds. The Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution has established its status. This shows that the European participant countries have reduced sulphur emissions by 73 pst, nitrogen oxides by 35 pst, ammonia by 21 pst. and volatile organic compounds with 51 pst. So we're going to have significant reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e262	The National Audit Office has carried out an important and interesting study on how Norway has followed up the NOx reduction obligations in the Gothenburg Protocol, which Norway signed with other European countries on 30 November 1999. The National Audit Office is quite clearly right that work under different political direction in the Ministry of the Environment has been characterised by a lack of progress and results - that there has not been an overall plan of achievement and that there has not been a burden-sharing between the different actors. Therefore, the Riksrevision concludes that the instruments implemented per year. September 2007, is not sufficient to achieve the objectives set out in the Protocol. The national audit concludes that Norway is unlikely to be able to meet NOx reduction commitments by 2010. Let's hope that's not the case. Firstly, I would like to emphasise that Norway has managed to have better progress in terms of cutting emissions of sulphur dioxide and other emissions that are also regulated in the Gothenburg Protocol. Norway is definitely struggling with cutting NOx emissions. The magic level is falling below 156 000 tonnes in 2010. Norway has reduced emissions by 18 000 tonnes, but a total of 39 000 tonnes remains. It's going to be a tough challenge, but it's not an impossible task to do this if you have a political will to succeed with it. The majority are left alone with two important points in the setting. The first is that we believe that Norway would be in a much better position to meet the commitments if it had been more rapid in the work of previous governments. It's very special that the opposition does not agree with the majority of this. The work of the United Nations on reducing pollutant emissions in Europe has been ongoing since 1979. Norway has had national emission targets for NOx since 1989 and the Gothenburg Protocol was signed in 1999. So we have had time to develop good national instruments. Our mention of inertia in the work hits several governments. However, there is reason to note that for four of the seven years after Norway ratified the Gothenburg Protocol, Kjell Magne Bondevik was the prime minister of two governments and was responsible for progress. The second point is that the authorities have been speeding up their work, in particular in the last year, by introducing a NOx tax from 1 January 2008 and the agreement between the Ministry of the Environment and 14 trade organisations in May 2008. This agreement involves paying the NOx fee to a NOx fund, where the money is used directly to develop and introduce new environmental technologies to cut NOx emissions. The 2010 emissions obligations under the agreement shall be fully implemented by the end of 2011. In addition to the business agreement, the Government is now assessing the additional emission reductions that can be implemented in respect of sources not covered by the agreement. The majority believe that it is wrong to give up or postpone commitments in the Gothenburg Protocol. Instead of rebuffing, as the opposition does in my opinion here, the Riksrevision study should be an inspiration both for the Government and for the parties of the Stortinge to improve the use of instruments so that we can meet the commitments contained in the Gothenburg Protocol. The Gothenburg Protocol is one of the most important environmental agreements Norway has concluded. Under the Gothenburg Protocol, various gases leading to pollution, eutrophication and ozone formation are considered together. The Protocol deals with sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds. The Gothenburg Protocol entered into force in 2005. The Protocol obliges a number of European countries to cut emissions leading to pollution, eutrophication and ground-based ozone. These are emissions from, in particular, oil and gas extraction, shipping, road traffic and the mainland industry. The implementation of the Gothenburg Protocol will cost Europe an estimated DKK 500-600 billion per year. Norway’s share is estimated at between 350 and 550 million. kr annually. However, it is important to stress that the value of reducing pollutant emissions is at least twice the cost. The National Audit Office points out that other countries have been better placed to implement as tough demands and obligations as Norway was faced with in 1999. We are on track in terms of sulphur dioxide as a result of both an offensive charging policy and not least agreements with industry. However, it is serious when the National Audit Office has pointed out a number of weaknesses in the overall efforts of the authorities to cut NOx emissions, and in particular the Ministry of the Environment’s overall responsibility for coordination and follow-up, the lack of overall approach and the willingness to use effective instruments. This is clearly a work that has run counter to sectoral interests and a fear of consequences, as well as professional disagreement on the use of instruments. Thus, the authorities have not used the option they have to set national discharge requirements for ships under the navigability law, and the use of the pollution law has helped to reduce emissions from the offshore and mainland petroleum sectors to a small extent. There is also reason to point out that the Riksaudition questions whether the authorities have taken advantage of the possibility to impose requirements for the use of low-NOx technology on energy installations in the processing of plans for the development and operation of installations on the base. Offshore petroleum activity stands for dry 30 pst. of the national emissions, where the energy installations represent a total of 90 pst, while the combustion of gases, i.e. flaring, consists of 10 pst. The use of low-NOx offshore technology is the most effective of the measures and the Committee records the approval of the operators’ plan for development and operation as a central instrument for regulating the NOx emissions from the offshore industry. I look forward to what the Government has reported to Stortinget, namely that it will come back in the autumn of 2008 with a plan to re-write the NOx emissions and thus be able to follow up the Riksrevisions further. What surprises me is that the opposition parties are not looking forward to this follow-up to how to manage to reduce NOx emissions, and are not aware of what, at my discretion, must be a perfectly clear conclusion to the Riksrevision's remark, namely that the Government is taking this up and coming back to Stortinget with a plan for the further follow-up. I look forward to the plan that the Government will come to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2008, and am as I said am amazed that the opposition is not doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e338	The Gothenburg Protocol on the reduction of gases, inter alia: NOx, signed by Norway in 1999 and approved in the United Kingdom in 2000. Norway has actively pursued binding international agreements for the reduction of long-range air pollution. Through the Gothenburg Protocol, we have committed ourselves to reducing emissions so that NOx emissions in 2010 will not exceed 156 000 tonnes per year. In 2006, emissions were 195 000 tonnes, a reduction of 18 000 tonnes since 1990. The aim of the Riksrevision study has been to examine the efforts of the authorities to reduce NOx emissions in order to meet the obligations of the Gothenburg Protocol. The national audit concludes that it is unlikely that Norway will be able to meet the commitments set out in the Gothenburg Protocol by 2010. This is justified, inter alia, by: the existence of comprehensive measures to be implemented within a short period of time and uncertainties related to the instruments. The Christian People's Party agrees that as it looks today, Norway will not be able to reduce emissions of NOx to the extent that we are obliged to do so by 2010. The government initially put everything on one card - a NOx tax that proved not to work, and which was also poorly investigated. The levy hit industry hard, in particular fishing, maritime and travel. The impact on business and possible alternative instruments were not well established. Despite the hard hit by fisheries, maritime and tourism, the Government did not want to take adequate measures to facilitate this difficult situation for these industries, such as: a notable increase in the fishing deduction. It is unfortunate that no more offensive and targeted strategy was followed with a focus on flexible solutions and the widest possible cross-sectoral system of charges differentiated after emissions of NOx and/or third-party solutions. Such a strategy would open up far more manageable instruments such as direct impositions and requirements financed through third-party solutions. The negotiated agreement between the country and 14 trade unions is good, but unfortunately it is too late. The Christian People's Party has had faith in a fund solution. It's good that the government is now betting on this. It is time for the Government to implement more manageable NOx reduction instruments to improve Norway’s capacity to meet the commitments under the Gothenburg Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e374	The National Audit Board’s examination of the exercise of powers for the reduction of NOx emissions is important and provides a good professional overview of a complex area, which is also referred to by the entire Committee in its opinion. I would like to stress, on behalf of the Centre Party, that the focus on the use of tools is important. My brief comment here today is that we have to admit that the proposal for a NOx tax relating to the State budget was not sufficiently well established, in particular with regard to the impact and impact on business, nor with regard to the importance of meeting the emission reduction requirements. That is why Storting’s decision on NOx funds came, and it was important that it should come. It is a voluntary agreement, and it is responsible for business to a much greater extent than a clean NOx charge would have done. It is important to find that all payments made in the NOx fund go to concrete environmental measures, which make it easier to bring business with them. I would like to stress, on the part of the Centre Party, that it is important to find arrangements in the environmental work that are responsible for the business and take care of its interests, while at the same time achieving the necessary emission reduction objectives. As you can see, this NOx agreement between the 14 organisations and the state may be a template that we also need to look at and implement in future similar schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e401	It is very positive that the Riksrevision focuses on Norway’s efforts to comply with international environmental obligations. I attend several such examinations from the National Audit Office. It will be a spur to enhanced and improved efforts. So we want to welcome this study. The report gives a good understanding of the urgency of producing the necessary political decisions in an area where there is a great deal of consideration to be given to each other. The NOx obligations of the Gothenburg Protocol apply from 2010. The red-green government inherited from the Bondevik II government in the autumn of 2005 what we could call ‘some solving considerations’ on the issue, but no policy decisions of importance. Before I go into the realities, I have to say that I have experienced the opposition in Stortinget more impressive than in a matter where they themselves have run the house and let it fall due for many years, and then, in retrospect, criticizes those who go in and begin to renovate that house. Of course, there would have been a much stronger situation if the work on complying with the Gothenburg Protocol had started when it was due, late in the 1990s, or at least shortly after the turn of the century. The reason why this did not happen, of course, is that this is a difficult matter, with negative effects for individuals and for individuals - not on the evil will of anyone, but because there is a difficult balance between different considerations. That's why you had the case scoured, and that's why it's hard for us, because we're going to have a very short time to solve it. Our government faced a balance between two alternatives, one of which was economic theory, namely that a fee is the best. I met late at the end of last week’s Norwegian sole proprietor who thought that a fee would be the best. It would give more predictability, they said, and a perfectly fair system. Of course, it's the ones that would earn such a solution. Instead, we have chosen something that has not - at least very rarely - been tried, either in Norway or in other countries, namely a specific agreement between the Ministry of the Environment and 14 business organisations on the reduction of NOx emissions. Companies committed under the agreement do not pay the NOx tax until 2011. The main positive effect of this, as I see it, is that it gives a clear clue to the development of more NOx technology in Norway. One of the most inspiring meetings I've had in the last year was with Rolls-Royce in Bergen, who presented the technological possibilities to improve the technology on ships so that NOx emissions are drastically reduced. They said that by just changing the cooling system on a boat you would be able to reduce the NOx emissions by 40 pst-- and another 30 pst., I think it was, by getting a better propeller. It was such that they wondered when they would reach Saddam Hussein level, namely passing 100 pst. reduction, i.e. the boat is sucking up NOx from the air around when it goes. This shows that there are enormous opportunities for technology improvement in this area. This charge and this system are intended to stimulate the development of technology in Norway. In lucky cases, this may be a competitive advantage for Norway. In any case, it is beneficial for the world to develop such technology. The fact that there has been a reduction in NOx emissions in Norway over the last ten years is due to technology improvements, but that technology improvement is the least of our credit, because it is the technology improvement in the world’s automotive industry that has drastically reduced NOx emissions from cars. The areas where technology has remained still until recently relate to ships, fishing vessels and a number of industries, but in the automotive sector there has been a dramatic reduction in NOx emissions. I think we have to give Toyota and a number of others more of the credit for that than Norwegian decisions. But it shows that the potential is there, and that through this agreement, which I hope will make sense, we too can participate in that technology development. We have now received a combination of the NOx fee and a collective agreement with all the industries concerned. It is a unique agreement, which represents a new and innovative instrument in environmental policy. The business community has been given a mechanism with the NOx fund to ensure that the cheapest measures will be implemented first. But I agree with the Riksrevision in what has also been suggested by several others here, that we can risk getting into a situation where we do not have the power to discharge the obligations, according to the Gothenburg Protocol of 1 January 2010, but hopefully as soon as possible after this date. The agreement imposes great demands on business. At the same time, it will be economically easier for enterprises to finance the measures. I see the agreement as a testament to whether this is a way to go in other areas as well. Should we succeed in this way in reducing NOx emissions according to the plan, as I hope and believe that we will, this is of course a mechanism that will be interesting to consider also for other environmental areas. If we don't succeed, I guess this will be a one-off affair. Then we have to try other and more classic economic instruments in other situations. But I hope and believe that we will succeed, both in reducing NOx emissions and in developing the necessary technology. These tasks are, of course, closely linked. We see that other countries, too, are curious about the Norwegian solution, which I consider to be a positive solution, which arouses international interest. Fee exemption on the basis of the agreement with the trade organisations must be approved by ESA before this can be implemented. The case is now for formal treatment in ESA. The agreement will provide the necessary emission reductions from the taxable sources and from the process industry if it works properly. In addition, we expect new exhaust requirements to further reduce NOx emissions from road traffic. The government also assesses the emission reductions that can be implemented for other sources outside the agreement, such as: smaller vessels, working machinery and domestic and commercial heating. Carl I. Hagen was concerned about the risk of distortion of competition between those included in the Norwegian system, and above all ferry services to Denmark and Germany, which are not subject to NOx charges. This is included in a note from the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party. The distortion of competition is a concern. We're doing what we can to avoid such a distortion of competition. No matter how big it is, it has to be unsaid. At least it will only apply to a very small part of those covered by the Norwegian system. There is, of course, no distortion of competition in relation to shipping or most of coastal traffic, but there may be distortions of competition in relation to a few of those covered. The main answer to this, in that Norway cannot dictate other countries, is to work hard within the world’s maritime organisation to get global systems not only for NOx reduction but, of course, also for CO2 reduction and reduction of other emissions. We're already going to have a meeting in Oslo next week in the world's maritime organization. Norway made last week’s views on this in the CO2 negotiations in Bonn and will work hard both within the IMO, within the UN Convention on Climate Change and in other areas in order to obtain global agreements to reduce emissions from shipping. I have previously acknowledged to the National Audit Office that Norway would be in a better position to reduce NOx emissions if we had more progress in the work on the instrument. If we had started earlier, we would have been better off. The criticism of the National Audit Office has been an important incentive for speeding up work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e501	I fully agree with the Council of State that it is primarily through technology improvements in this area that NOx emissions can be reduced. I will not go into the discussion of how long it has taken to get this agreement in place with the trade organisations, and how wise it was to have a fee alone as a first play. There I really just want to refer to Lars Peder Breck's articles, which have problematized this in an even comprehensive way for me. In one area, however, Norway is actually in the situation that we have a direct impact on technology development. It is in the petroleum sector, where the department approves the technology to be used in each field. Plans for the development and operation of each field must be submitted to the Ministry and the Directorate, which approves the use of low NOx-emission turbines or the use of higher NOx-emission turbines. My question to the Council of State is actually more direct: why continue to approve high NOx-emission turbines in areas where there is technology available and where approval by the Norwegian authorities is possible to do so directly? The cost question in this case lies primarily with the State, because the right to deduct is so high that it is in practice the State that pays the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e522	As for the question of the fee, or the threat of the fee, versus the agreement, I do not think we should ignore the effect of Al Capone's well-known words that you come further with a kind word and a gun than with a kind word alone. The threat of a fee may well have made it easier to negotiate the agreement that we have now received, than it would have been to do so to say entirely on the bar. That may also be one of the reasons why we have reached such an agreement, while the Bondevik government left it, had resolved to talk in this area. Now the deal is there, and we're going to do what we can to make it work. I'm not familiar with the details of the Per-Kristian Foss travels, but I'm definitely going to take it back with me and see what we can do to get a faster phase-in of more environmentally friendly oil technology in terms of NOx. In general, environmental technology is especially so that it is almost exclusively a politically driven technology in the world. It is developed in the private sector, in private enterprises and research institutions, but it is when the public sets the framework and drives it forward that it comes. Very little environmental technologies have been driven for purely commercial reasons, as is the case in most other areas, where the private sector itself is driving technology further. When the public -- especially the advanced markets, and Japan is an excellent example of it, California is another -- sets a tough framework for what industry can do, it's quite incredible what creativity exists in private business to get technology in place. Having a tough and rigorous oil business regulation is one of the most important things Norway can do to get fast technology development, because it is one of the few areas where technology development in Norway will have global dimensions. Without being very specific about the question Per-Christian Foss is asking, I am generally inconceivably in agreement. We have to impose very strict rules on oil companies in order for them to develop new technologies in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e538	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3749]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e554	The study is based on the fact that ICT has been an important tool for increasing efficiency and better interaction in healthcare, and that national efforts have been made on ICT in the health sector since 1997. At the latest in the Budgetary Section. S. No 11 for 2007-2008, the Health and Welfare Committee stated that technological development offers great opportunities to support the whole of and interact with the health and social services, and that ICT is an important tool for quality improvement and increased security in the service. It is assumed that a comprehensive and comprehensive introduction of electronic patient records, EPJ, will have the greatest potential for benefits from all ICT initiatives in the health and social sector. The patient journal is at the heart of healthcare information treatment, and it is expected that its implementation and use will contribute to both quality improvements and more efficient use of resources in healthcare businesses. An essential part of the electronic interaction in healthcare is in the form of an electronic notification exchange, whereby information is exchanged between different reporting systems. The aim of the National Audit Office’s study has been to highlight the use of ICT as a tool for better interaction and more efficient use of resources in healthcare. The Committee is of the opinion that despite 10 years of national ICT efforts in the health sector, much of the information flow in healthcare remains paper-based. Although it focuses on electronic interaction between levels and between health professionals, the Committee believes that the National Audit Report supports the fact that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has not been able to discharge its responsibilities to fully follow up the national ICT initiatives. Norwegian health services have one leg in the paper-based world and one leg in the electronic world, leading to double routines and more work in many places. The Committee points out that the findings of the National Audit Office reveal a lack of use of electronic patient records, EPJ, in healthcare companies. The introduction of the EPJ is a prerequisite for electronic interaction, both within the specialist healthcare system and between healthcare companies and general practitioners. While general practitioners have been using EPJ for several years, health professionals are gradually switching from paper records to electronic records. The Committee further points out that the findings of the National Audit Office reveal that the objectives of electronic notification exchange have not been achieved. Reference and epicrisis are the main types of messages in the interaction between primary and specialist health services. The Committee believes that it is important that patient information is exchanged in a fast and secure manner, both to ensure a good follow-up of patients and to ensure efficient use of resources in healthcare. The Committee further points out that the findings of the National Audit Office reveal the need for stronger national governance. The organisation of healthcare is complex, with many units and many decision-making levels, and national governance and coordination are necessary to ensure that ICT is used as an effective tool for achieving health policy objectives. Good cooperation between the different parts of healthcare is important to ensure good treatment, care and follow-up for patients. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision believes that ICT has been used too little as an instrument for improving the interaction between hospitals and municipal care services and between hospitals and general practitioners. The Committee is aware that the care sector accounts for the bulk of the communication with hospitals during the admission and delivery of patients, and that the Riksrevisi has raised questions about tools to promote electronic interaction between municipalities and hospitals, which have been sufficiently used. The Committee considers it necessary to use several instruments to achieve the objectives of electronic interaction between hospitals, municipalities and general practitioners. The Committee also considers that the Ministry of Health and Welfare must take an active responsibility through the funding system to ensure the progress of this work and standardised solutions, not least. The Committee is concerned that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has a specific responsibility to ensure better interaction, which must make it clearer that hospitals use more ICT and facilitate even more use of electronic interaction with municipalities. Finally, the Committee would stress that privacy considerations must also be taken into account when new ICT-based solutions are implemented. Health information is of a very sensitive and private nature, which implies that privacy considerations have to weigh heavily in relation to the provision of such information. I would like to ask that document No. 3:7 for 2007-2008 - The National Audit Office's study on ICT in hospitals and electronic interaction in healthcare is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e582	13-14 years ago, I had the pleasure of starting work with a vision paper on ICT for the Government. It drew up the vision of how information technology could be applied in a way that would change our practices in many sectors. In the document on an ICT policy for Norway, which we called the Norwegian IT route, Bit for Bit, we pointed out, for example. on how the Internet would change the tourism industry. Today, this has become a reality. We also drew up the visions of how the health care system would change. The perspectives that were drawn up were: ‘Information technology can provide better cooperation between generalist and specialist, between local hospital and specialist hospital. Through regional and national health networks, medical point competence may be exploited by several, regardless of distance.’» ICT should not only improve the effectiveness of the activities of the individual hospital, but should change the working methods and link the different stages together, so that we got more efficiency and better quality. ICT has certainly changed the everyday life of health services, including: by providing patients with easier access to medical knowledge. That is why today the health care system is meeting patients who are better informed than before, both about their own disease and about new possibilities for recovery, no matter where in the world these possibilities exist. However, as the National Audit Office's report shows, and as the rapporteur has explained, it is still a long way to go until the opportunities offered by ICT have been exploited to improve the efficiency of actors and efficiency across actors. We know from the office everyday that the vision of paperless society seems to be further away from the more computers we get, but the fact that both electronic journals and paper records are still kept is at least no more efficient everyday life in Norwegian hospitals. We can often be too optimistic about how much ICT can simplify our work, and the examples that comprehensive data solutions quickly become more time consuming and more expensive to operate are many. But I hope the National Audit Office's report leads to a stronger look at how ICT is exploited in health care, because it's still, as we had seen 13 years ago, great opportunities for better services, better interaction between actors and better quality of service if this tool is fully used, not as a duplicate, but as a replacement for manual tools. So ten years of action plans have not delivered sufficient results, and stronger national governance is probably important. But this may also be an indication that we don't get the full impact of exploiting the opportunities offered by ICT before they go on the ground, i.e. those who do the work in hospitals, even seize the opportunities and see what relief it can bring in a busy everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e602	I've noticed the Riksrevision's reference and, of course, the attitude of the committee. I would also like to say that I am not at all satisfied with the delay in establishing electronic interaction between all actors in the health and care sector. Objectives and visions agreed in the sector for more than 10 years, as several speakers have already pointed out, have not been fully implemented. However, it is important to stress that we have been getting a lot since the first strategy saw the light of day, in 1997, but I would also like to add: it should just be missing! Norwegian Health Network is established as a secure electronic highway for effective communication between the actors connected to this network, and we have developed standards for interaction. Fortunately, we now see that the number of users and the number of shipments on the health network is increasing. As of today, it's 90 pst. of the decrees, 70 pst. by the permanent medical services and 27 pst. by the municipalities associated with this network. In retrospect, we might say that the goal of large-scale electronic interaction and, in a relatively short time, perhaps has been ambitious. Only when implementing the concrete national development projects did one realise that the projects were more complex and therefore also more time- and cost-intensive than assumed, not least as regards the legal aspects of privacy. Gains that could have been used for patient-oriented activities or care services for the individual user have not been sufficiently realised. On the contrary, many people feel that they have to deal with both paper and electronic patient systems, so that there are double routines and extra work. It was not the intention at all, as has been said from the pulpit here today. It is, of course, always easy to be a follow-up clock and explain why things have taken time. I'm not going to do that, just establish that I'm not satisfied, and that I'm going to do what's possible for this to go even faster. I have noticed that a main theme in the Riksrevision study is the introduction and use of electronic patient records. It is the very basis for the provision of information in the healthcare sector. An electronic patient journal - EPJ - consists of a number of ICT systems that, as you know, contain patient information. Health companies have partly different software and different patient reporting systems. This leads to technical barriers to the exchange of patient information in healthcare businesses, between health businesses and between health businesses and other actors. The EPJ systems can to some extent be adapted and changed in some health enterprises, but in other health enterprises the systems are so outdated that they have to be replaced completely. The costs of replacement and adaptation are high, and unfortunately it takes too long. Work is now under way on the coordination and phase-in of new EPJ systems in several health businesses. The new systems will also provide greater protection of privacy, as we also feel that the Committee is involved. In the new national strategy for electronic interaction in the healthcare sector, Interaction 2008–2013, we are launching a national initiative to further the electronic exchange of views over the health network. This is done in close cooperation with regional health businesses, and initially will give priority to the interaction between doctors and health businesses because there are standardised solutions here that can be used quickly. Several regional projects shall be launched to launch electronic transmission of basic messages such as epicrisis, laboratory responses and notifications to the care sector. I would also like to mention that the work on electronic prescriptions is well under way and is expected to be completed in 2011. The introduction of electronic prescriptions shall contribute to improving the health of the population through the proper use of medicinal products, both medically and economically. It shall contribute to the modernisation of pharmaceutical management so that society’s resources can be used more effectively than is the case today. Unfortunately, even in the municipalities it is quite a long way to go before the technology can be fully used and achieve the desired efficiency gains. This is because, in part, there are considerable variations in the extent to which each municipality has come into the process of electronic interaction. In many municipalities, much more work needs to be done before one is ready to interact with others. During the previous strategy period, a municipal programme was established. This was in order to provide municipalities with a common knowledge base and to contribute to good communication between the different solutions, and between them and health businesses and decision-makers. Procedures have been developed to address the interaction needs of the healthcare sector and different standards of communication between health and care services, general practitioners and hospitals. During the year we're in, 50 new interacting municipalities are going to join, and they're going to get support in this work. We have also concluded a national framework agreement with the Municipalities’ Central Association, which is also an important tool to make greater use of electronic solutions and to influence developments in the municipal care sector. Further developments in the health sector will require efforts in several areas, including: through even stronger national governance. The Ministry has, as you know, the right to manage its own businesses and businesses, but not to municipalities and private actors. It makes this image even more complex. I have requested standardisation, development of services for use in the health network and participation in the national message promise. Further development in the municipal and private sectors must be done by law, regulations, negotiations, agreements or incentives. We're working on that. Much of the work in this area will continue to be based on voluntary and binding agreements, but we are prepared to steer even stronger where it is necessary to get this even faster in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e623	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3750]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e639	Today, the size must be treated Innst. S. No 288 for 2007-2008, the Riksrevisions study of the supply of housing to the disadvantaged. To a large extent, there is an overall committee behind the setting. But the Advance Party and the Right have together and separately special comments that repeat the party's policies on matters that have previously been sent to the Stortinget. If necessary, I expect them to explain this for themselves. There is a broad consensus in the Storting to pursue a housing policy that gives everyone a chance of finding a home for themselves, although there may be some disparate views about the means to be used. The right to a fair standard of living, including: the right to a satisfactory place of residence is governed by the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The human rights in general, and therefore also the right to a fair standard of living, are provided for in the Basic Law § 110c of the Constitution that state authorities should respect and safeguard human rights. In Norway, 77 pst. of the households owning their own dwellings, either as self-owner or as unit-holder. The difficulty of the housing market is a complex group. It includes both persons who need close follow-up to be able to live and persons who have mainly economic challenges related to the housing market. The most central individualised residential social instruments are start-up loans, housing grants, housing support and municipal housing. In addition to the individual state instruments, municipalities allocate funds over their budgets to those disadvantaged on the housing market. Several municipalities also have their own housing support scheme. If you look at the study, it shows that too many fall outside the support schemes, and that strict needs testing makes this possible, for example. municipal housing is not, in fact, an available instrument. In order to get a start-up loan, it is essential that you have control capacity. The requirements for housing support are strict and only those with the lowest income receive support. The National Audit Office’s survey also suggests that there are large differences between municipalities in the supply of services provided. In 2007, the individual state-owned residential economic instruments alone amounted to DKK 6.3 billion. In addition, municipalities have significant expenditure related to the disadvantaged on the housing market. An overall committee believes that it is important that the different instruments can be seen in the context. It is the responsibility of municipalities to provide housing for disadvantaged people under the general state framework conditions. Local authorities must therefore give priority to housing-social work in relation to other tasks. The way in which this work is organised will probably vary according to local challenges and needs. The achievement of this objective is strongly influenced by the lack of coordination in terms of housing social instruments at municipal level. It is unfortunate that municipal housing, as a central tool for large groups, was so poorly linked to the other instruments. It's also unfortunate and somewhat annoying that the whole 41 pst. by the municipalities of the survey practice a procedure which violates the requirements of the Administrative Act for individual decisions. The housing aid, which is a regulated scheme, is designed so that many disadvantaged people fall outside the scheme. This is due both to economic boundaries and to the fact that some types of households are not covered by the scheme. Persons without children, with low income and who do not receive certain social security or benefits, will, for example: could not receive housing support. A large part of social assistance is for housing purposes. There are also a number of municipalities that have established their own municipal housing support schemes. This may be an indication that municipalities see groups falling outside the State housing scheme. The Committee has noted that there is a risk that the State and municipal housing social instruments do not reach the whole target population of disadvantaged people and that some disadvantaged people fall outside all of the schemes. The regulatory framework in this area is complex and comprehensive and requires a high level of coordination between several sectors and several levels of administration. There are considerable differences in the way municipalities organise the social work, but social services and technical services are the most responsible. Some of the largest municipalities use municipal enterprises for tasks related to municipal housing. The implementation of the NAV reform updates the organisation of housing social work. This applies in particular to the allocation of temporary dwellings, but it is now likely that a large number of municipalities consider that NAV should handle individualised instruments and services such as housing support, start-up loans and housing grants. The use of the NAV Office may also help to increase the user-friendliness of the individual. Regardless of how practical work is organised, systematic work with the housing social action plan and the necessary professional skills will mean a great deal for the success of this important work. Well-coordinated residential social instruments are a prerequisite for the effective achievement of the objectives of the instrument. I support the National Audit Office's assessment that the challenges in this area cannot be confined solely to a question of a financial framework. It is therefore likely that further work by the Ministry will require users to meet a coordinated instrument including municipal housing. I expect the Council of State, among other things, to will affect this in its article. The Committee urges the Stortinget to decide that Document No. 3:8 is annexed to the Protocol for 2007-2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e669	It turns out that some disadvantaged persons on the housing market are not covered or have access to the housing social instruments, and thus do not receive the assistance they need. In order to get a start-up loan, it is essential that you have control capability, which is something that many people do not have. 70 pst. of any refusal to start a loan is due to the inability to pay. Therefore, the revenues generated by municipalities when assessing their performance are very central to large groups of disadvantaged people. There are large differences in what is included in the calculation basis. In addition, the study shows that many start-up loans are not realised because people who have been granted start-up loans are unable to find a dwelling and therefore the loan is not paid out. The housing aid, which is a regulated scheme, is designed so that many disadvantaged people fall outside this scheme. This is due both to economic boundaries and to the fact that some types of households are not covered by the scheme. The study also shows that there are many disadvantaged people who wait a long time for municipal housing to be allocated. The problem is greatest in the large municipalities. 74 pst. of the large municipalities indicate that it is common to wait up to one year. Those who have been on the waiting list have been waiting on average for three years. Many live in municipal dwellings for a long time. The study shows that the coordination of the housing social instruments does not work well enough at municipal level. Many municipalities do not include housing support in the income base when applying for a start-up loan, which means that it varies to what extent the housing aid scheme works in conjunction with the start-up loan. In addition, almost half of the municipalities respond that they do not assess whether starting loans can be a better tool for those living in a municipal dwelling or who are applying for municipal housing. This problem is greatest in the small municipalities. Here it's all 68 pst. which states that they rarely or never make such an assessment. The study suggests that municipal housing is the instrument at least seen in the context of the other instruments in the municipalities. The study also shows that the country does not have the necessary knowledge as to the extent to which the instruments are to be viewed in the context. In order to ensure good coordination of instruments at municipal level, the Husbank works mainly with raising the level of competence in the form of information meetings and guidance. In order to ensure that the instruments are viewed in a coherent way, the House Bank has a responsibility to facilitate, to be a driver and to build skills. In the light of the survey, it does not appear that the Husbank’s competent work in this area has had an adequate impact. The Progress Party wishes to increase municipal space in housing policy and believes housing support is more appropriate than investment aid, because the rent per person pays, does not necessarily reflect the subsidies. There is also no objective in itself for municipalities to own rental dwellings. On the contrary, a switch from investment aid to direct housing aid may allow municipal rentals to be released to owner-occupied dwellings. This means that municipalities can transfer a municipal owned share of housing rights to the tenant of the associated housing law, without pre-emption. I would like to point out that in the case of the last one in this case, the Progress Party went one step further than the other parties and proposed to remove the entire pre-purchase system in the case of the sale of dwellings and apartments. I would like to point out that today's high housing prices can largely be due to barriers to new construction in the municipalities, and in particular the lack of open-ended land as a result of negative government and municipal decisions, and artificial restrictions on the use of existing land. By facilitating an increase in new construction, and thus also at lower prices, it would be easier for the homeless to establish themselves on the housing market, and those barriers could be reduced without the need to provide more money over the state budget. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs introduced amendments to the Technical Regulations to the Planning and Building Act and to the Rules of Procedure and Control from 1 January 2007. I want to express scepticism for changes that can contribute to increased construction costs, as further barriers to new construction will lead to a less dynamic housing market. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, on the one hand, says that the Government will build housing for the homeless, and, on the other hand, that building regulations have been put in place to make it 15 pst. more expensive to rebuild. The Party wishes to strike a healthy balance between supply and demand in the market and would point out that a market cannot be considered free if there are rigid barriers to the creation of new capacity on the supply side of the market. In Norway, it is important that people should be able to own their own housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e703	The government's goal is for everyone to stay safe and sound. There are too many people who don't get the help they need today. It's not worth it. Maybe the biggest housing social problem is missing commitment, not especially from politicians, but from society as a whole. Most people have enough of their own carnapps and pavilions, with their own initial investments. The study now carried out by the National Audit Office shows several important and serious challenges. They will follow up in my further work in the housing social policy field. One important point that the Riksrevision points out is that the proceedings in the municipalities fail. Bustadtrengende is entitled to respect and dignity, in the same way as others who turn to the municipality, and to written answers in the light of waiting lists and decisions. This is something to follow up. I've already recorded it at a conference where people working in the housing administration in many municipalities were gathered. I'm going to follow it further up in letters to the municipalities, and the ministry is inviting a conference to the fall, where we're going to address both that page and housing challenges in a larger context. So, let me stress that the House Bank is the most important housing social tool the state has. In a few years they have gone from being a loan bank to becoming a competence center for municipalities. This process of change has occurred during the same period as the investigation into the Riksrevision. The household bank has a high level of competence when it comes to housing social issues. The housing bank has regional offices that work close to municipalities and can thus adapt the work to local variations. The House Bank offers incentives for development, for empowerment and, in particular, for investment. The House Bank also plays an important role as a coordinator - facilitating both skills enhancement and exchange of experience. All actors within the housing social field can benefit from the services provided by the House Bank. The house bank shall be a driver for the municipalities of the residential social work. At present, 250 municipalities have been given the opportunity to develop housing-social action plans. In 2007, the House Bank granted 16 p.m. more rental properties than in the previous year - 850 total dwellings - and Husbanken is an important support player for the municipalities that participated in the ‘Project homeless’. We gave NIBR a mission in the fall to look at how the tools we have in this field work together. The NIBR report is very clear on the fact that support, bonus and starter loans are not working well enough together. It's completely obvious in the same direction that the Riksrevision is expressing. So there are challenges that we have to take seriously. I must say that I am responsible for a more social housing policy from the first day in the department. The government is working for a better buffer. More people need to get into the system - it needs to be better, especially for families with children, but also for single people. This is what we're coming back to Stortinget with. We have a closer cooperation with KS. So we're going to have this joint conference in October, but we also have our own agreement that the municipalities should strengthen their work in the housing social field. Then we are now immediately evaluated the strategy called «On the road to owner-occupied housing». The survey will be briefed on the results of the evaluation in the context of the 2009 State budget. This year we will also have a new survey of the homeless. It will show you how to close one as far as the current job is concerned. It will also show you what to do. So I would like to say that the government has done something in this period that is completely open to improvement, for example. monthly payments of the support. It means more quickly in, and even faster out again, for those who are going out of the system. We have open support also to groups of those who rent privately, and now lastly, in the revised budget, make proposals for extra bumps, from 20 pst. to 40 pst., for some special projects where the one to bow needs follow-up. Then the red-green parties in the Stortinget took the initiative in connection with this year's government budget to a huge increase in the level of competence, which allows even more projects to be undertaken against individuals on the basis of prison or drug treatment. I conclude that we are on the right track, but that the report from the National Audit Office is an important document in our further work to ensure in practice that everyone can stay safe and sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e726	It was the post from the Ib Thomsen Progress Party that made me take the floor, because you give the impression that you want to solve the problems for those who have difficulty getting into the housing market - those who are economically struggling to own their own housing. One of the big values, I think, in the Norwegian housing market is that we have such a high ownership. This has led to that it is through housing the Norwegian people essentially doing their savings. And the fact that mechanisms have been developed through the House Bank and other ways has made the large, large majority own their own home, and that everyone has the opportunity to share, so to speak, that piggy pig. It gives a justice and an opportunity. So when the Progress Party decides to shift the subsidies from investment aid to housing support, so that you can develop a larger rental market, it will distort that balance. It will be the lessor, the lessor who owns the rental dwelling, who will get the savings through price increases and cost increases, and not the lessor. So the tenant pays the current costs, but he's not left with any of the capital appreciation or any saving. It's a transfer of funds from the tenant to the owner, which is a different one. Of course, it would be investors who serve on that system. The Progress Party wraps up a transfer of values from those who live, to those who own, in a social policy package that will not be sustainable. The other comment they have, which was elaborated in the article, is that if we just get rid of all the hopeless restrictions so that we can build more dwellings, the prices will fall. I'm sure that's right. If we got even more speed on the housing construction -- it's not like a few homes are built, it's possible it's slowed down a little now, but in the last few years there's been a lot of buildings built -- if it could be further increased to get a larger housing offer than housing demand, it would hopefully lead to a drop in prices. But who thinks the Progress Party will take the financial risk of building homes for which it might not be buyers? Who's going to do that? For some people, they have to bet their money on setting up dwellings - which are supposed to be empty. And who, if any, will pay the cost of the dwellings that are empty? I think that the Progress Party should have a good answer before they come and present that kind of proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e737	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3750]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e753	The unregistered, unreported and illegal withdrawal of fish in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea has been a central theme for the discussions of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission in recent years. Although the contracting parties have so far not agreed on the extent of the unregistered and illegal withdrawal, Norwegian and Russian fishing authorities agree that the problem is serious. In view of this, the National Audit Office and the Russian Federation have carried out a parallel audit of the management of fishing resources in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea. Very well-known is this an innovation in the audit work in this sector, which will also be followed up against other sectors in the future. The aim of the study has been to assess the achievement and effectiveness of national follow-up and implementation of bilateral agreements between Russia and Norway, and not least the decision of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. A conservative estimate of the total take-off of cod in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea shows an overfishing of more than 100000 tonnes in 2005. This minimum estimate implies that every fourth cod taken out of the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea is excluded from the quota, which underlines the importance of this matter. The investigation shows that Russian vessels are responsible for a significant part of the unregistered off-take. Illegal and unregistered fishing is reflected in reduced national quotas and leads to a lower operational base for the Norwegian fishing fleet, which is also very important to be included. The situation is serious both for reasons of legal certainty and for market and reputational reasons. Illegal fishing punishes legal operators, it is destructive to the market and to the reputation of the industry. We know that market trends lead to somewhat increased focus on sustainability and legal fishing. The study shows that the Russian authorities have followed up to a small extent some Commission decisions, including: in relation to information exchange with Norwegian fisheries authorities on satellite tracking, transhipment and landing in third countries. The Committee regrets that these key measures to address the challenges of illegal fishing and transhipment in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea have not been followed up by Russian authorities. Therefore, the Norwegian authorities need even more than before to seek better interaction in order to achieve this. The Committee considers it important that Norway continues and reinforces its positive role in this context. The study further shows that the Norwegian resource control is widely applied and operates mainly as intended. The Norwegian quota control is essential for resource control. The study shows that both the Directorate of Fisheries and the Sales Act have contributed to the strengthening of quota control in recent years. At the same time, the study shows that there is still room for strengthening quota control and better clearing of individual allowances and total allowances. The Committee considers that consistent practices and management are important and that the sales teams have an important control function within Norwegian fisheries management. The Committee assumes that the controls of sales teams beyond quota control will be clarified in order to ensure a level playing field. It is not least assumed that all sales are subject to control obligations. The National Audit Board further points out that in order to ensure better control of the interception north of the 62nd parallel, foreign vessels shall report to the Coast Guard for control at one of the seven control points at the end of the Norwegian zone fishing. This scheme also applies to fishing in the territorial waters of Svalbard but does not cover the fishing protection zone around Svalbard. The Committee has noted that the Riksrevision questions whether this would result in weaker controls in the fishing protection zone than in the other waters covered by the scheme. The Committee stresses that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast must ensure that controls in the Svalbard fishing zone are as good as in other Norwegian jurisdictions. Norway has been a leading country in developing international provisions for the use of so-called administrative sanctions against foreign vessels. In the case of foreign vessels engaged in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, the Committee has noted that there has been limited use of sanctions such as refusal or withdrawal of a licence, possibly combined with a ‘blacklist’. The Committee would stress that administrative penalties are an important instrument available to Norwegian authorities when a flag State fails to fulfil its flag State obligations or when ships and undertakings participate in illegal or unregistered fishing. The Committee therefore considers that the legislation should be further developed with regard to such penalties. The national audit underlines the importance of applying the new Norwegian legislation in cases where the international provisions in this area are not sufficient. The new Norwegian legal frameworks go beyond the international ones, so that unilateral administrative measures can also be taken following a national assessment of international law against foreign ships. The Committee supports the view of the Riksrevision that the new Norwegian provisions must be applied in cases where the international provisions in this area are not sufficient. Finally, I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e784	I agree with the thorough review that the rapporteur had in his statement. The cooperation between the Norwegian and Russian national audits is a valuable innovation in the Norwegian-Russian relationship. Cooperation has been concentrated primarily on the management of fishing resources in the Barents Sea. It is beyond doubt that cooperation and parallel audits mean much to the fight against illegal fishing in the Barents Sea. Today, when overfishing tends to decline, this has to be seen in conjunction with the broad interface created with Russian bodies, including the cooperation between the two national audits - as an addition to the important operational work done by the authorities up to and including the Coast Guard every day. The active involvement of both national auditors in cooperation is likely to help to keep pressure on this field in both countries. From the Russian side, this is an instance with great weight and authority. There's also candy on the Norwegian side. There is therefore good reason to commend the Riksrevision for this effort. It is important that such cooperation continues. The memorandum signed in June 2007 should contribute to this. In addition to fisheries, the Parties have decided to extend their cooperation to new areas. A review of aspects of nuclear safety cooperation is now at hand. This work looks forward to the Workers' Party with great interest. During the Committee’s visit to Murmansk, several challenges relating to illegal fishing in the Barents Sea were discussed with representatives from various Russian authorities. In this context, it became clear - and it was underlined by the Russian head of meeting - that the conditions that prevailed on the Russian side in the 1990s would not come back. It was also important from the Norwegian side in the same meeting to clarify that Norwegian fishermen are subject to as strict controls as Russians, with the difference that most Norwegians are controlled when they arrive at port. On the other hand, it is important to increase the amount of information flow from the Norwegian side on how checks are carried out and followed up, so that the work of the control regime is not misinterpreted, with the unnecessary misunderstandings that this can contribute to. The Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea have, among other things, large fishing resources that must be managed in a long-term, sound manner. Research, regulation and resource control are key concepts in this context. This, together with the cooperation of both national audits, will be an important instrument in the fight against illegal fishing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e797	I also refer to the case spokesperson's thorough and good review. As you can see from the setting, a co-ordinated committee will present this issue. So I just want to highlight a couple of important points. This is primarily the case with unregistered and illegal withdrawals, and the fact that Norway and Russia are jointly managing the fish stocks in the Barents Sea, the importance of managing a renewable resource, and that operating with a resilient housing is significant. We have experienced in a number of times that Norwegian fishermen have also been draining the sea for some of the populations. We have in recent times been able to conduct a policy that has given us a resilient coughing, which has caused populations to come up again. Then it is important that the two countries that have such a great responsibility here cooperate, so that we can continue to have this resilient fall, and have cooperation and interaction when it comes to conserving stocks. Therefore, it is worrying that there are so many unregistered and illegal withdrawals that almost every five cods being drawn out are unregistered and illegal. In this situation, if this persists, we could risk lowering national quotas in order for us to be able to have this resilient development at all times, so that we can continue to rely on this important resource, which means so much to so many, and which is a food supply for the world's population. As elsewhere in society, it is the law-abiding who must suffer because some do not comply with the law. Therefore, it is important that Norway and Russia cooperate here, and that in an interaction and understanding of the importance of this, they take hold of it and severely defeat those who commit crime. It is important to bear in mind what the Committee also says when it comes to the possibility that the Coast Guard should be able to exercise effective control, that we should also involve Russia, and that we have mutual understanding and perhaps mutual control of each other. Therefore, it is important that Coast Guards are able to take on the great responsibility that we do not expect them to have. It is worrying that the Coast Guard has not actually been able to carry out a resource control due to a number of misinvestments and that they may not have resources to perform efficient and long-term work. So we hope the Committee's comment that the Coast Guard uses the resources needed to carry out effective control of fish resources is followed up by the Government. In this way, we can take care of the large fish resources that lie there, the large fish resources that can create activity throughout the country, both in Norway and in Russia, and help feed those who need it in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e806	Let me just allow me to add something to the rapporteur's excellent articles, to which I agree entirely. This audit report, this parallel audit, is in many ways an important step forward in revising such an important area between two countries, which is now to be dealt with both in the Storting and, after being told, in the Duma. Although the Norwegian and Russian revisions disagree on one point, namely the extent of overfishing in fact, it is a significant step forward that an audit report has been issued which largely shares the reality and, to a large extent, underlines the seriousness and consequences of overfishing. It's a good step forward. On our journey to the Church and Murmansk, we were told that the Riksaudition is also signing an agreement with the Russian revision on new areas. As I mean to remember, the nuclear waste on the Kola Peninsula is the theme of the next joint parallel revision. This is also an important area for Norway. That is why it is important that our national audit, in cooperation with, in this case, the Russian national audit - but also the national audit of other states - addresses these kinds of issues that are of common interest to, in this case, Norway and Russia, but also to other countries where there is a common interest. What is important to emphasise is that as a coastal state, we are totally dependent on the existence of an international regulatory framework that is being implemented. We have long traditions in Norway to be both a driver and loyal to international agreements we make, and that is important. Through this report, we have become aware that as many as possibly every four fish, as is stated in the audit report - that is, 100 000 tonnes in total - are likely to be taken illegally in 2005. This clearly demonstrates a significant economic crime and, in particular, a significant environmental crime. In order to achieve this, the international legislation is absolutely necessary. I'm glad it's underlined that we're taking care of that. The Minister for Fisheries has assured the Committee by letter. What is also important to address is that, to the extent that the international legislation is not good enough to safeguard national interests in the Barents Sea, national legislation is applied, and this is strictly enforced. That means that, at my discretion, and after the unanimous vote of the Committee, we should not have tolerance for crime in this field. To the extent that we do not succeed, we will continue to work to get even better international legislation in the Barents Sea. It is important to stress that the legal frameworks now given at national level are enforced in such a way that everyone who commits crime in the Barents Sea knows that there are national authorities that allow us to punish not only Norwegian boats for overfishing, but also other countries' and other states' vessels that are fishing that are not in line with the legislation in force. I would like the Minister for Fisheries, in his speech, to underline this last point, which the Committee unanimously stresses, and which the Riksrevisor recommends to the Committee, namely that national funds should be used and that they should be used to safeguard national interests. Let me therefore conclude by saying that I am very pleased and satisfied with this report that is available here, not necessarily because the conclusion is special, but because the Riksrevision has got a parallel revision in place. We know that there will be new reports, including those against Russia. I also encourage the National Audit Office to look at other common policies with neighbouring countries, where it may be necessary to address this type of joint parallel audit. What we see is that very many of the policy areas dealt with by Stortinget are not enough for one state to deal with alone. These problems need to be addressed jointly. Then the Riksrevision's common observation is important as a tool and as an instrument to do this better for us in this room as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e825	It has been referred from several speakers to the thorough review of the case by the rapporteur, Lars Peder Breck, and I can do that too. The Committee's views are also made clear through the unanimous comments of the Committee. In this way, it might not be necessary to say that much. It's like this in a lot of cases where we don't disagree, where there's no difference, that we don't extend the time to take the word out of the way. However, there are some issues that are so important to the nation that we have to take the word anyway in order to underline just that. That is why I am speaking. In this case, it is about the conservation and management of very important resources in view of the future of what has been described as a dining room at least for our area of the globe. Norway manages some of the world’s most productive coastal and marine areas, while fishing plays a central role in the Norwegian economy, with great importance not least for coastal settlements. Therefore, cooperation with Russia in this context is very vital. It is not least important that we arrive at the most common understanding on both sides of these challenges. That is why there is also reason to commend the national audits, primarily our own, but also similar, on the Russian side, as well as the fisheries authorities, for initiatives and efforts to find mechanisms to ensure the proper control and management of these fisheries resources. The parallel revision of the management of fishing resources in the Barents and Norwegian Seas has been carried out in line with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and is thus a very important step in the right direction. We, who took part in the Committee's journey to the Churches and Murmansk and got meetings representatives of different authorities on both sides, felt this was very useful. As underlined in the suspension, the situation is serious both for reasons of legal certainty and for market and reputational reasons. When someone is engaged in unregistered and illegal fishing, it goes beyond those who are legally operating. That's the way it is. This contributes to undermining the market and putting the industry in a bad light. Market trends have been shown to result in increased market focus on sustainability and illegal fishing. The survey shows that there is a significant withdrawal of cod in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea in addition to the total quotas laid down in negotiations between the two countries. The Norwegian and Russian authorities seem to agree that this is a major problem, but there is not as much agreement on the extent of overfishing. This is explained, inter alia, by: the existence of different methods for calculating the withdrawal. Nevertheless -- when something like every four cod, which is also mentioned here in the past, taken out of the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea, is taken out illegally, we realize that the problem is large and significant, and when Russian fishing vessels, according to surveys, stand for a large part of the unregistered withdrawal, we see some of the challenge as well. The result of illegal and unregistered fishing may be a reduction in national quotas and a weakening of the fishing fleet operating base. The purpose of the work of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission is that the decisions taken should be reflected in the legislation of both countries with a view to punishing infringements. These Commission Decisions in the field of control have been largely enshrined in Norwegian laws and regulations and are now also followed up and enforced as provided for. There is therefore reason to express regret that the Russian authorities have done little to do the same in important areas. In particular, information exchange with Norwegian fisheries authorities on satellite tracking, transhipment and landing in third countries shall apply. It is a pity that these key measures to address the challenges of illegal fishing and transhipment have not been followed up by the authorities of our neighbouring country. The Norwegian authorities must continue to work on this with a view to improving interaction. The Committee has underlined Norway's driving role and that we continue and strengthen this role in this context. In its report, the National Audit Office has pointed to a number of challenges also on the Norwegian side. Norway has already come a long way, among other things. with regard to strengthening the control of allowances. However, the study also shows that there is still room for improvement on the Norwegian side. This includes an important strengthening of the Coast Guard, as previously mentioned, so as to enable it to carry out even better the monitoring and control function it has set up in these areas. In this context, I also refer to the Committee's comments. There is reason to be satisfied that the two national audits have agreed to continue to follow up the parallel audit over three years in order to assess whether the results of the audit have contributed to the more efficient management of the common living marine resources in the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea and whether the audit has helped to resolve the problems of illegal fishing and transhipment in these marine areas. There is every reason to have expectations related to this follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e853	First, I would like to thank the National Audit Office and all the bodies that have contributed to a comprehensive and informative report on the management and control of fishing resources in the Barents Sea. Let me also thank the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which has done a very thorough job in examining this report. The report is also a very important contribution to the work against illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. This is an area that has been and will still be a high priority for the Government. In my opinion, the Riksrevision report demonstrates that the Norwegian fisheries management works well. We have a responsible resource management and appropriate control of the extraction of fish. The report also makes it visible that many bodies are making extensive efforts to tackle unreported fisheries and that cooperation between the relevant departments is essentially good. The report also points to challenges related to cooperation with Russian authorities. These are tasks that the Government is continuously working on. In my opinion, we have set up the necessary channels to solve the challenges within the framework of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. This is a collaboration that has worked well for 32 years. As a result, the main fish stocks in the Barents Sea are in good condition. Disagreements are resolved administratively and through diplomatic channels. The International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES, states in its recommendations for the setting of quotas for 2009 that fisheries in the Barents Sea are sustainable. This benefits the ecosystem and the law-abiding fishermen. The marine scientists therefore recommend higher cod and hake quotas for the next year. There is no reason to hide that unreported fishing is a problem for us as administrators. The government will therefore ensure that the fight against such blackfish will continue with unreserved force. This requires resources for the most affected agencies. The actors behind systematic black fishing have both the will and the ability to circumvent new countermeasures. That's why we have to be in the forefront. I have therefore addressed several of the issues raised by the National Audit Office, including cooperation between Norwegian and Russian judicial authorities, in the past year, together with the Minister of Justice. Within two weeks, representatives of the law enforcement authorities in Norway and Russia met to discuss cooperation against fishing crime. Cooperation between the Norwegian Coast Guard and the Russian border guards in Murmansk has expanded considerably in recent years and has produced tangible results. I am also pleased that the Norwegian marine research vessel has completed the necessary take-off in the Russian economic zone in 2008. As regards the concrete figures on the extent of the problem of overfishing, as the Riksrevision points out, there is reason to stress that estimates of an unreported activity will remain uncertain. Joining the agreed numbers for overfishing of cod and hay in the Barents Sea is a process we've been working on for years, and we'll continue to focus on. Fortunately, we are now in a situation where we have seen more than a halve of overfishing of cod from 2005 to 2007. Our efforts in this area have been a good socio-economic investment. In 2007, 61 000 tonnes less unreported cod were fished in the Barents Sea than in 2005. Only in a first-time value, this fish represents more than 1 billion dollars a year. With regard to figures and censuses, I would also like to mention that the introduction of port State control by the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission from 1 May 2007 continues to provide safer figures as a basis for the calculations. The debate here has focused on control points in the protection zone. To date, the Norwegian authorities have not chosen to implement the same type of arrangements with control points in the protection zone as in a Norwegian economic zone. This is essentially the result of a practical weighing-up. While the control points of the Norwegian economic zone are coastal, maintaining control points in the protection zone is far more challenging. However, I would like to stress that we have proper control in the protection zone. We need to keep considering the practical aspects of how this is implemented. The Coast Guard is doing a formidable job in resource control. The government has strengthened the appropriations for the Coast Guard. It is also the case that, within the resources made available by the Coast Guard, resource control is the highest priority. The topic of administrative penalties and provisions has also been addressed in the debate. Here, Stortinget has already agreed to amendments to the law prohibiting foreigners from fishing, etc. in Norway’s territorial waters and in the Saltwater Fisheries Act. These changes gave us better opportunities for such sanctions from 1 May 2007 by allowing vessels from contracting partners to NEAFC, the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission, to be placed on the blacklist of Norwegian fisheries authorities. This has also happened in several cases in the last year. The consequences of porting to blacklists include: licence denied. In addition, the Stortinget has also endorsed the new Maritime Resource Act, which will extend the basis for administrative sanctions. Norway has already been world leader in this area and has become even better in my view in the last year. The representative, Djupedal, took up the importance of international cooperation. It's clear that it's absolutely fundamental. Norway cannot clean up illegal fishing in the Barents Sea on its own. We need to do so in cooperation with Russia, through the agreements we sign each year, and the ongoing political dialogue with our neighbouring country. We also need to have proper agreements with the EU and the EU Member States. There we have a significant number of agreements in the last two years. The next step is to establish a globally binding agreement on port State control, such as: countries in West Africa and Asia are as well protected as Norway is now through the new port state regime, which was set up last year. We still have challenges again. But all in all, we are in a positive development. I am very optimistic about having sustainable management of the fishing resources in the Barents Sea in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e883	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3750]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e899	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3750]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e915	I would like to refer to the proposal of Øyvind Korsberg, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Kåre Fostervold, where the proposers ask Stortinget to ask the Government to draw up an action plan with measures to ensure that the Food Authority is a service establishment and to carry out an evaluation of the system of joint food surveillance. There is an overall committee that believes that the system of joint food surveillance for agricultural and sea-based food production is a proper organisation – this in order to have an effective and comprehensive management of complex issues affecting the whole food production chain. There is also an overall committee that feels that challenges still remain to be met with more comprehensive supervision in the Food Authority, which has more than 60 decentralised district offices. The legislation on food provides for the use of judgement by businesses and supervisory authorities. As a result, there will be some variation in the exercise of authority. The variation in the level of supervision of the establishments for which the Food Safety Authority is responsible is also large. Therefore, a joint committee believes that it is in the best interests of the traders that a certain discretion can also be exercised. The Food Authority is relatively a new organisation, only approx. Five years old. Here are former government employees, municipal workers - there are different cultures and forms of work that will merge into a new organisation. Everyone working on such issues knows that it takes time to create good and efficient cultures after such large mergers. My claim is that the Food Authority has done a good job on the part of the management to achieve the goals that have been set. I also want to pay tribute to the department's management to influence in a positive direction. But it's true that when you're going to streamline and cut down, when you're going to create new cultures in an organization and a unified attitude to achieve common goals, it puts a certain amount of dampness on your enthusiasm. This is about a year. 50000 inspections in individual establishments in addition to the continuous surveillance carried out in the meat inspection. It's a large number, and often it's that if there's single things that aren't well handled, it's just these that come into focus both in the media and elsewhere -- especially if there's a disagreement with the decision. But rarely do almost 50,000 inspections go very well. But that's the way it should be. A critical searchlight must be placed on establishments to make them even better. However, it is also important to have clear key guidelines that can provide regional offices with the leadership they need to ensure overall supervision. The Committee refers to replies from the Minister of Agriculture and Food on this matter, where it appears that action has been taken to improve food supervision. The previous government also worked a lot with constant improvements to the Food Authority. In the E. coli case, two evaluations and an internal organisational review were carried out. The Minister of Agriculture and Food will address the same letter in order to obtain detailed reports from the Food Safety Authority as a basis for further operations. Food surveillance shall be a service establishment and an evaluation of a common food surveillance body shall be kept under constant review and reported annually to the Storting through the budget proposal. A service statement will not only make the Food Authority more service-friendly. This must be done through organisational attitudes, cultural promotion measures in the Food Authority, interaction and, of course, political leadership. The majority, consisting of all parties other than the Advance Party, propose that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. I assume that the Progress Party will argue for its position based on its own situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e943	We are now going to discuss the representative proposal of the Progress Party's representatives on the Business Committee to make the Food Authority a service establishment. First, I would like to thank the case spokespersons of Kongshaug, who have done a good job and gathered a clear number of people in the committee, as the setting shows. Food surveillance was established in 2004, through a merger of several national authorities and the municipal food surveillance authorities. The purpose of creating the new Food Safety Authority was among other things. ensuring a better food security for Norwegian consumers, ensuring good animal welfare and better competitiveness for Norwegian food. The aim was also to streamline administration, avoid duplication of work and create more forward-looking and efficient food management. There is no doubt that there are still major challenges to getting a more holistic oversight of the Food Authority. It also means a gathering committee. However, we must bear in mind that supervision manages all laws on the production and translation of food and the whole food chain from soil and fjord to table, as well as that it has supervisory responsibilities along the whole production chain. There is no doubt that these are big and heavy tasks. And many of the matters for which the Food Authority is responsible are of great public interest. Bird flu, animal tragedy and the lack of food hygiene at restaurants are some examples of this. It is important that we ensure that, through their work, food monitoring ensures that all operators in the market comply with their responsibilities to comply with the legislation and to ensure that consumers are fed in a safe and healthy way. I have to say that it is a little paradoxical that it is the Progress Party that has put forward this proposal, because in the first budget of this nutrition committee, in 2006, they would cut the operating costs of the Food Authority by a total of 55 million. kr. But then there was an outbreak of E. coli in the spring of 2006. Who was it then that demanded that the government arrange? And in the summer of 2006, we were able to hear the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on the Eastend, where he asked the government to give more money to the Food Authority to increase the number of cold sink inspections in the stores. - Well, meeting yourself in the door is probably an expression we can use here. E. coli-saka showed us all how important it is that we have good enough routines at all stages of production, so that people can be sure that food is not harmful to health. Two evaluations of E. coli-saka have been carried out. In addition, a wide range of organisational reviews and actions have been carried out under the auspices of the Food Safety Authority to improve supervision. I agree with the Council of State that it is not necessary to draw up an action plan with measures to ensure that food monitoring is a service set. I have the impression that the Food Safety Authority focuses on improving and developing in line with the objectives we have seen. Finally, I would like to take advantage of the need to decorate some of the supervision. In fact, studies show that the population has a high level of confidence in the Food Authority. And on the Web pages we find a lot of useful information. Among other things, information on all the 400 dining areas that participate in the smiley arrangement can be found on the Matportal. There, consumers get the results of inspections carried out by the Food Safety Authority, which provides useful information on how well the activities are to comply with food law. And, not least, every week, we also get a wind alarm on the home page of the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e962	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job, and also for a good post here in the Chamber - which contrasts with the last post. The reason why the proposers have promoted this proposal is that we are the representative of the people. We are representatives of individuals, and we are representatives of businesses and businesses. In any case, the fraction of the Progress Party in the Stortinget receives quite a large number of requests from both agricultural and fisheries operators who are not satisfied with parts of the Food Authority’s situation and with the behaviour of the Food Authority, both administratively and when they are out on inspections. Therefore, it would be wrong for us not to take this further to the Storting and challenge the Government as to what one wants to do to improve the administrative culture of the Food Authority. In a way, we feel that we have had too much of this in the setting, as well as in the letter of reply from the Council of State. Both the majority of the Committee and the Riis-Johansen State Council point out that there is a significant need for improvements also in the Food Authority, as we point out. We have made two suggestions in the vote. We want the Government to draw up an action plan with measures to ensure that the Food Safety Authority is a service establishment. The Progress Party believes that all public enterprises should have a service statement, because public enterprises are not for themselves; they are there to serve society around them. There is something that public enterprises have to bring with them all the time when they act in their business. I was in and looked at the Food Safety Authority's website, and there is nothing to be found about the kind of service the Food Safety Authority should be. If you have a service statement that is easily accessible, e.g. on the websites of the Food Safety Authority, those who are going to deal with this department can go in and easily see how to expect the establishment to act in relation to the industries they are set to serve. It's a simple grip, and it's a grip that many out there would appreciate very much. The Progress Party wants strong food supervision, we want effective food supervision, and we want food supervision that has good resources. We support the merger that took place in 2004 through a common food control system for agriculture and for the fishing industry. But now, over four years have passed since we got this merger, and there are no structures in Norwegian society that should be exempted from critical review. We believe that the time has now come to launch a major investigation into whether the merger has been satisfactory. There is, of course, a type of investigation that needs to be carried out in cooperation with those who are exposed to the administrative culture of the Food Authority, and in relation to that with supervision. I think the government could get us a lot more into meeting in terms of being positive and conducting such an evaluation. I have mentioned earlier in the speech that the Progress Party is getting a lot of enquiries about this, and it would surprise us if not more of the representatives sitting on the Business Committee of the other parties also get a lot of enquiries. In the Vesterålen magazine on 16 April 2008, the Danish Depositary Representative Torny Pedersen of the Workers' Party stated: ‘The Danish Food Authority’s cooperation with the industry’ — i.e. the fishing industry — ‘does not work as well as it should. We get feedback that one feels that the Food Authority is becoming more a control body where the results are in newspapers, rather than going in and seeing with the industry how to solve problems." She also said that it is necessary to look at the Food Authority's way of doing their tasks. It is certainly positive that there are some representatives of the government parties, here the largest government party, who see the same issues as the Progress Party has pointed out in this matter. The Riis-Johansen Council of State points out in its letter that in 2006 the Food Authority had an external review of the organisation to review the status in key areas. There, the Council of State admits that some aspects of organisation, management and management were revealed that were not satisfactory, and action has therefore been taken to make improvements. It is important to focus on that report and on the process that has been initiated. I hope that the Council of State in its statement on this matter will learn more about how he, as the responsible State Council, follows up this work. We are also critical that the Council of State writes in its letter that ‘there is no need to draw up an action plan with measures to ensure that food supervision is a service establishment’. The Council of State further writes: ‘Food monitoring shall primarily contribute to the proper functioning of the social interests enshrined in the legislation.’;» That is right, but there should also be clear guidelines on how the Food Safety Authority will act when they are out among people and out among businesses. I'm around a lot of farm visits, and I guess that's what the Council of State is too. Then at least I hear that the inspectors who come from the Food Safety Authority are not rigid in their interpretation of the legislation. I was recently visiting a cube that had a cock sitting in the feather window. I asked, are you allowed by the Food Authority to have that cock sitting there? No, he said, if they come to visit, I'll have to remove the good time in advance. - It's clear that if we're going to have that kind of pirk, it's not possible to get a lot of hearing for the Food Agency in the industries. I'm addressing the suggestions that are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1000	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1003	I would also like to start by giving the case rapporteur credit for the work on this matter, and I would very much like to join in what he said in his article. Today’s food surveillance was established, as is known by the Bondevik II administration, by decision in the 2003 budget, bringing together the state and local authorities in the fields of food surveillance and animal health. Monitoring was responsible for both land-based and sea-based food production. The aim was to ensure good animal welfare, improve the competitiveness of Norwegian food, avoid duplication of functions and thus achieve more forward-looking and efficient management. In the right, this was a necessary reform, and we see that there have been maritime challenges related to implementing the transition. It is becoming a few years since the merger, and it is therefore very important that the Food Safety Authority now sets up a standard for its work, a standard that takes out the potential for both better supervision and better service. Like the proposers, the right has received a number of input from industry, both in the fisheries area and in the food sector. These enquiries relate to actors experiencing the practices of the Food Authority as being arbitrary and varying from office to office. Recordings come both from individual enterprises and from almost all business organisations, as well as from the media. The right believes that this is unfortunate and that it has to be taken seriously. We see it as a clear sign that not everything works well enough. It is therefore clear in its place and time that we are now having a debate on these challenges here in the United Kingdom. As stated in the statement, a joint committee gives a very clear signal to the Food Authority and to the departments responsible for the matter that challenges remain to be met in order to have more comprehensive supervision in the Food Authority, which today has more than 60 decentralised district offices. When the legislation approaches targeted requirements rather than detailed management, there may be variations based on judgement in the conduct of supervisory activities. The right considers that key guidelines should be established to ensure that the work of supervision is carried out as uniformly as possible, irrespective of the regional office in which the matter is dealt with. There have sometimes been reports of major issues in the media, where images have been presented on TV as dramatic in relation to food safety. Afterwards, it has been clarified that the images did not give a fair impression of the setting. This is very unfortunate and devastating for the industry that is being hit. The right does not in any way believe that the work of the Food Safety Authority should be capped, but it is very important that a common information strategy be established, so that the handling of potentially sensitive material is done in a professional manner. The Economic and Social Committee gives a very important signal when it unanimously states that clear central guidelines will provide regional offices with the leadership needed to carry out comprehensive supervision. The right assumes that the government councils and the departments involved will actively follow this up, so that we get other types of feedback on the work of the Food Authority in the future. So some words about the way the Food Authority went about in the situation when Fjordlaks in Storfjorden was ordered to slaughter 2 million trout as a result of the VHS virus. The debate that then took place between different disciplines seemed very little reliable, and it is a paradox if the Veterinary Institute does not have dialogue with other Norwegian top-level environments in such cases. I also find it a little difficult to accept hiding behind EEA legislation, when we see claims in the media that, for example. Finland has a different approach to the same problem. When the Right agrees to attach the matter to the protocol, it is based on the clear signals from the Government that action has been taken to improve food supervision. The right note also the signals from the Council of State that the departments responsible will be concerned with getting thorough reporting from the Food Safety Authority as a basis for further operations. That thinks the Right is very wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1031	I would also like to pay tribute to the case spokesperson. I consider the proposal to be well-meaned, but at the same time the representative Asmyhr and the Progress Party have a slogan saying 'The future is not adopted, it is created'. Then you can wonder if the distribution and evaluation are the right way to go. There's a limit on how much we're going to regulate here. Of course, I suggested that the Food Authority itself has good internal processes, where they discuss how they should behave to their customers and how they should appear. There are limits to how much we can decide here in the hall. Then we know that the Food Authority has two important tasks: control tasks, of course, and guidance. I would like to interpret positively in the context of the proposal what it says about guidance - to be able to operate not only with control but also in advance to inform about legislation and be present when business operators start new businesses and need, for example. veterinary knowledge. Øre Vilt, who is located in the municipality of Gemnes in More and Romesdal, said: We never got this if it wasn't for Ola Krogstad, former municipal veterinarian, no - of course - representative of the Food Authority. He was there, helping them with the legislation, helping them with applications, saying that like that they should do it to get the best possible slaughterhouse company. Today, this is a thriving business - a huge example of the fact that the Food Authority is taking the new tasks seriously and is also doing it in practice. They're part of helping people, not teasing people. Then we've also seen the example from Melbu in winter. There is no doubt that the large fishing operators who have enormous economic resources are unable to do so, despite the fact that the Food Safety Authority repeatedly makes accusations about things as simple as it drips from the roof. It is clear that then one should be able to put things into action and be a little strict and perhaps even a little difficult. The control and manual bits must be able to go hand in hand. It seems that the Food Safety Authority is right and proper, and they are going to evolve without necessarily imposing all sorts of evaluations and controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1046	First, I have to say that there were some reflections one made when one heard the representative Asmyhr's forwarding of incoming e-mails on the Progress Party computer in the last six months. Then I must say that from Stortinget's pulpit to say that one is happy that one has contributed to the fact that there is now an understanding that there is a need to follow up and improve the Food Authority, is a rather special claim. One should not dig so deeply into the budget proposals that have come to the Stortinget in recent years, to see what extent it is in the follow-up to the Food Authority, and what processes have been in the aftermath in particular of the E. coli case, which was a big and serious matter, and which it was also necessary from the Department to go into in a much more extensive way than is usually done. So there are improvement processes that are also due to an improvement potential in the Food Safety Authority, everything is different than new. It's something that's been working for a long time. Then I also have to say -- a little bit in the extension of what Jacobsen said just now -- that it's a little strange to sit in the staging room and hear that a large number of people prevent the Progress Party from increasing the state bureaucracy and increasing the state resource use. That is what is the consequences of the thinking of the Progress Party here. And then we'd rather live with the fact that the representative Asmyhr assumes the role of the person who defines the risk associated with different pathways of individual farms. The establishment of the Food Safety Authority in 2004 gave us a supervisory seat that can follow the entire production chain of food from soil and fjord to table. Food safety plays a central role in ensuring food safety and contributing to continued good plant and animal health and animal welfare in Norway. Food surveillance also plays an important role in contributing to the quality and fairness of production and placing on the market along the food production chain. I am pleased that the setting has been given by the Business Committee to Document No. The 8 proposal under consideration today shows that there is still a broad consensus that establishing the Food Safety Authority as an overall supervisory body for both land and sea-based food was a proper step. Food supervision is still a young organization, and it has been mentioned by others in the pulpit here today. I share the commitment and impatience of the proposers and the Committee in relation to the challenges that remain before we can say that the Food Safety Authority has fulfilled all the objectives set in advance of the establishment. There was broad political agreement that the establishment of a joint food surveillance body of the State Agriculture Authority, the State Animal Health Authority, the State Food Authority, parts of the Fisheries Directorate and more than 80 municipal supervisory offices would provide efficiency gains in terms of reduced costs. With the budget adopted in this room for 2008, an efficiency gain of 10 pst has been taken out. on the budget since the establishment of the Food Authority. This has been perceived by the Food Authority as demanding. I have therefore been particularly concerned that budget reductions should not lead to a reduction in activity, but to a real improvement in efficiency, so that the Food Safety Authority can continue to provide guidance and supervision production, which in total is at least as good as in the merged establishments. Both qualitative and quantitative aspects of supervision are important parameters for measuring the activities of the Food Authority. In this context, I have been particularly concerned about the priority of the Food Safety Authority being in the business to guide and monitor compliance. As you can see, the representative Jacobsen's posts were also interesting. I have made clear expectations about increasing the outward work from the level we saw around and right after the establishment. In addition, food surveillance is working to ensure more targeted supervision of the supervision of those establishments where the likelihood and consequences of a breach of legislation are greatest. I believe that this is quite correct and in line with the objectives set by the establishment. I note with satisfaction that both the proposers and I are concerned that the internal allocation of resources in the Food Safety Authority must provide the most resources for the outbound work. This has been and will still be important to me in the management dialogue with the Food Authority. I agree with both the proposers and the rest of the Committee that there are still challenges before the Food Safety Authority has achieved the objective of exercising uniform and comprehensive supervision. These challenges are being actively addressed by the Food Authority. through the training, exchange of experience and development of a common electronic surveillance system. At the same time, it is important to note, as the Committee also points out, that legislation in the field of food increasingly provides targeted requirements rather than detailed management. It will thus be a key challenge for the Food Safety Authority to provide the professional competence of businesses with the means to choose different solutions that meet the targeted requirements, but at the same time harmonise the exercise of judgement so that there is no unacceptable discrimination between regional and district offices. I see that as one of the main messages from the Committee here in today's debate. In my opinion, it is generally positive both for businesses and for consumers that the Food Authority is a decentralised organisation with significant competence in the many district offices, if this alone poses a challenge in relation to the idea of non-discrimination. However, I would like to emphasise the follow-up to the work carried out by the Food Safety Authority in order to achieve the necessary unity and completeness in the supervisory work. Good harmonisation between regional offices is important in this context, as the Committee points out. I note that the Committee believes that such harmonisation can best be achieved through key guidelines, but would point out that, in my opinion, horizontal coordination between regions dealing with the same type of issues is also important. The new supervisory system under development of the Food Safety Authority becomes an important instrument for the harmonisation of administration. The fact that supervision meets its users with a positive basic attitude is important. The Food Authority attaches great importance to complying with its values of openness, generosity, commitment and honesty in dealing with the businesses. Food surveillance also attaches great importance to providing users with good information on the rights and obligations under the regulatory framework under which it operates. Sense if there are some examples that might indicate the opposite -- and it's like those who show up -- I feel that the Food Safety Authority, as a body, has focused attention on being serviced, while at the same time doing its important task of protecting important social interests. High confidence in the population suggests that the population recognises the work done by the Food Safety Authority to protect consumers. I agree with the majority of the Committee that the Food Safety Authority has to assess its own service, and that a separate action plan is not necessary to make the Food Safety Authority a service establishment. In the further work, I will continue to pay great attention to the development of the Food Safety Authority in line with the objectives set in the establishment, and the continued improvement of the establishment in line with the steering signals given. The management of the Food Safety Authority has taken important organisational and governance steps to follow up the results of the evaluations already carried out. I want to focus on good reporting to Stortinget through the budget proposal, both of the results achieved and of the steering signals. I share the view of the majority of the committee that there is currently no need for further evaluations of the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1078	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1081	It is regrettable to note that the Council of State is initially trying to be a little cumbersome in relation to the proposals and contributions made by the proposers. The Progress Party does not propose any more bureaucracy with this proposal. Fairly enough, a simple service statement is to be made and an evaluation is to be made, but this proposal is primarily about making bureaucracy more efficient and service-oriented to those to whom it is to serve. There are often appeals against bureaucracy. These are things that the entire nutrition committee hears when we're traveling. We hear, among other things: that there are regional differences in the exercise of legislation in the field of food supervision and that the industries are also perceived as negative. When the Council of State has the approach to this which he has, that this is almost unnecessary, is it so that the Council of State believes that the representatives of the magistrates, who are the representatives of the people, should ignore the large number of requests they receive?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1088	It's a total derailment of what I said in my post. Firstly, there is nothing new in the formulations adopted at the main hall today compared to the fact that the Food Authority, as a body, needs both evaluation, follow-up and improvements. This was addressed in 2006, after the E. coli case. There have been two evaluations of the Food Authority. Starting a new evaluation of the Food Authority two years after there have been two such rounds is nothing but unnecessary use of the resources of society. And then we'll definitely get into a new situation in some time when the need for that type of evaluation is greater. Now we are in a follow-up phase of the evaluations that have been carried out. And it's not about internal, narrow evaluations of the Food Authority. We picked up professionals outside Norway to carry out a broad evaluation, and that is the work we are now doing. One of the main things in that work was to make the Food Safety Authority more coherent and comprehensive - just what is being discussed here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1096	Øyvind Korsberg - to line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1099	No, I ask for the word for an article.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1104	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1107	I'm going to use a little bit more than 1 minute, which I would have had if I had taken a line. When I listen to the Minister of Agriculture's comments, I really just realize why I'm still engaged in politics. In any case, I believe that there should be respect for politicians who have a different view and who promote proposals according to what they think. I think the Council of State went a long way in snarling a little over the Advancement Party, but I don't intend to spend that much time on it. It has been mentioned that the Progress Party in previous propositions has cut in terms of transfers to the Food Authority. I just want to remind you that the Swedish Food Authority has a budget of well over NOK 1 billion. The fact that the Progress Party has then reduced by a few million doesn't mean that you let it go to safety. It's possible to streamline, in line with when other batches cut in transfers. So I find it strange that you are going to make such a black and white picture of that matter. What's bothered us is that the Food Authority has a lot of power. It also has the input we have received in the Progress Party, which has also received the rest of the Committee, both from single enterprises and from organisations of which individual enterprises are members. So it can't have been completely pulled out of the air that the Progress Party has come with and suggested in this case. I would like to refer to the magazine Vesterålen on Wednesday 16 April, which was also referred to by the representative of Kielland Asmyhr. So two people from the nutrition committee, Torny Pedersen and Steinar Gullvåg, were visiting some fishing farms. They also brought John Erik Pedersen, a personal adviser to the Minister for Fisheries. I would like to quote a little of what is stated on that matter: «John Erik Pedersen, personal adviser to the Minister for Fisheries, has an understanding of frustrated seafood producers: - The director of the Food Safety Authority has himself established that you are dependent on trust, and I perceive what he has now taken to signal that not everything is as good out in the industry, he says to the magazine Vesterålen. - When we receive signals about different treatment and other issues related to the treatment process, we need to check it out and see how practices in the Food Safety Authority can be improved, he adds." In other words, there are others in the government apparatus who perceive the situation differently from the Minister of Agriculture. I am glad that someone is in the field and gets the signals from those who are affected, namely the manufacturers. Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr also quoted Torny Pedersen, a party colleague of Gunvor Eldegard, about how she perceived the situation, so here I must say that it cracks both within the government system and among the representatives of the red-green parties here in the hall. There are many issues pointed out about the Food Authority and the arrogant part of the Food Authority, if I can use such an expression. Some of the controllers that go much further than what's necessary -- there's fortunately a few of them -- have a strong support player in Bjørn Jacobsen. Because when Bjørn Jacobsen stands on the speaker's chair and says that the Food Safety Authority should be strict, I agree, but when he also says that the Food Safety Authority should be difficult, I have to say that I completely disagree. And maybe that's exactly what some food producers think, that the Food Authority is difficult. But once again, I would like to stress: there are only a few in the Food Safety Authority, mostly doing a good job, but it is important that there are some people who address the issue when the Food Safety Authority actually goes over the line and makes it difficult for the business community. Finally, I record that we do not get a majority in favour of the proposal, but at least I have the faith and hope, when you raise a debate in the Stortinget, that if the government does not take the debate over, at least the Food Authority has registered it and will look at its routines. Finally. With the budget that the Food Authority has, and when everyone tells me how much the Food Authority is doing, I find it strange that it is too much to ask for an action plan to ensure that the Food Authority is a service department. Of course, the Food Authority can do a lot, but that's exactly what seems completely impossible, and I think that's sad that not all the other parties on Stortinget can be with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1138	I just need to give a brief comment to the previous speaker, from the Progress Party, who mentioned that the budget was over NOK 1 billion. That's exactly what happened in the summer of 2006 when we told journalists that within a budget of 1 billion kroner we expected the Food Agency to be able to check the freezers. Then the Progress Party went out and said that the Government had to bring more money. And it was at the same time that they had reduced the budget. It's important to get a clarity in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1143	I am not going to comment on any more progress party's desire to spend more government money on evaluations and things that have already been done, but I find reason to comment from this speaker that the impression is that the documents sent to the Stortinget are being read so little. For what is being taken up by the representative of Korsberg's posts here now, there are some issues that have been commented on. It's been reported to the Storting. I have had a great deal of concern about the issues that are being addressed here. It is not that the recordings that come here today are unknown either to the Workers' Party, to the SV or to the Central Party's nutrient fraction, or to the Council of State or others. There's been a lot of focus. There have been many issues related to the Food Safety Authority that have made it necessary to go through the activities of the Food Safety Authority. We have. Food surveillance is at the heart of a comprehensive reorganization, precisely in order to be better equipped both to meet small issues in the broad picture - which is difficult enough for the individual who is almost exposed to it - and to combine the need to have a coherent and comprehensive supervision where the Food Authority is recognisable beyond the country, while at the same time providing the necessary flexibility to enable the Food Authority to also be a guide for the individual business, which is to improve its operation. So this is to those degrees to give the impression that one here has discovered something that at least in very many other contexts has been well known over a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1150	Now the cats come out of the bag, after the representative Korsberg's post, because he says that being serviced will say to control less -- and that at times when people have actually died as a result of defects in the meat industry, and at a time when Fjordlaks in Storfjord in Møre and Romsdal would not take seriously enormously dangerous spread of the virus. Then the representative of Korsberg must have misunderstood me completely, for I do not think that the Food Authority should be difficult. I told you it was right: they shouldn't be there to tease people. They're supposed to be service-set. My impression is that they are. But then we also have to admit such a large organization the possibilities of having a course and improving itself and thus providing the best possible service. I fully trust that this organisation will be able to do so. We must not adopt this in this Chamber here. And then they come to Ås. The environment we have in Ås is urban youth and also young people from cities that take up education. These are people who will be interested in having the means to help the rural population, and also help the industry to achieve the best possible nutritional development. But there is no doubt that they will also operate a control operation. However, if the best guidance and industrial development are to be achieved, the effort they have to make with regard to control will be reduced. I have great confidence that the Food Authority is able to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1159	I cannot fail to comment on the comments made by the representative Eldegard about what happened in the summer of 2006 - i.e. two years ago. I must ask the representative, Mr. Eldegard, to read the quotes that she thinks I have stood for, better than what she does. For what happened during the E. coli case and the evaluation of it, was just that the government parties said: you have a billion in budget, and that's what you're going to do this job for, there's no more money to get. The progress party said that it should not be on money, here we have to make sure that it does a real job, a proper evaluation, and if you need more money, you have to get it. It is okay that we proposed a smaller cut in the 2006 budget, but that was before this situation arose. After all, the government parties have also included efficiency gains in their budget documents at the Food Authority, which the Progress Party has not done, because we have seen that these kinds of episodes can occur, and that it is important that the Food Authority has the resources to deal with these kinds of issues. Then it's the councillor Riis-Johansen, who almost every time the opposition takes up a case in Stortinget, claims that we don't read documents that come to Stortinget. It's pretty straightforward to come here and show that kind of disrespect for the Storting. We hope for the future that the Council of State will avoid making that kind of claims, otherwise it may be reasonably hot here in the future. The whole purpose of the Progress Party's proposal is to review the administrative practices of the Food Authority - which everyone should agree on - and then, in practice, the Food Authority should exercise common sense and have dialogue with the industries concerned. If we can do that, I think everyone is satisfied, and then the proposers have also come to terms with what they have proposed in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1168	I just noticed that the representative Kielland Asmyhr is standing on the floor of Stortinget and gives the impression and in practice says straight away that he has found out things related to the activities of the Food Authority that I have talked about for a long time back in documents for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1173	Just let it be quite clear that if in the future a situation of such a nature would arise that the Progress Party believes it is necessary to grant more funds, we will do so, be it to the Food Authority or to anything else - oil protection, etc., etc. We're a little bit concerned about it. When that situation arises, we show action and dare to make proposals in this way. Then I can just assure the Council that the Progress Party reads all the papers that are coming. We also hear what the council says in the hall, and not least we hear the way he says things in this hall. I guess that's the last problem. To Bjørn Jacobsen, I just want to say that the Progress Party is concerned with checking that the Food Authority controls well, and better. The best way to do this is simply to have a relationship with the industry. But I think the word cooperation for the red-green parties is gradually becoming a foreign word.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1182	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3750]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1200	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3750]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1218	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3751]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1231	Then Stortinget will vote in case No. 1-9 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1238	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The report calls on the National Audit Office to assess the possibility of carrying out an annual audit, including analysis, statistics and risk profile, in relation to its international location of the revenues from oil and gas production. The audit is presented as part of the Riksrevisions Document 3 series.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1392	During the debate, Mr Asmyhr put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1426	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of 11 June 2008 of Mr Odelstinget: ‘The decision asks the Government to carry out an evaluation of the changes to the Criminal Procedures Act on the transfer of competence to convene acquittal and to process applications for acquittal after 2 years and to return the matter to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1445	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the Depositary Representative Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Right, submitted by the Meeting of the Odelsting on 11 June 2008: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the State does not invoke limitation in matters relating to the compensation of children in children’s homes and special schools in the period 1945-1980, in line with the comments of a Joint Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs of the Innst. S. No 217 [[2004-2005]] The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-16.ana.ud351e1508	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
