ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e53	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 29 February 2008: ‘In the Council of State for H.K.H. The Crown Prince’s Regent held at Oslo Castle on February 29, 2008 at 9.30 p.m. 11 a.m. is determined: Parliamentary representative Anniken Huitfeldt is appointed to the Council of State and will take over from 29 February 2008 at 9.30 a.m. 12.30 administered by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. Kjell Erik Øie is hereby dismissed as Secretary of State for the Council of State Trond Giske in child and equality matters and appointed on Friday 29 February 2008 at 2.30 p.m. 12.30 as State Secretary to the Council of State Anniken Huitfeldt. Steinulf Tongesvik is dismissed from office as Secretary of State for the Liv Signe Navarsete. Hege Solbakken is dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg with resignation on 3 March 2008. Appointment of State Secretary Hege Solbakken to the State Secretary of the Council of State Liv Signe Navarsete with accession on 3 March 2008. Appointment of District Judiciary Per Johannessønn Jordal to the Secretary of State of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg with accession on 3 March 2008.» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The first deputy of Akershus County, Gorm Kjernli, takes the seat of the representative of the time Anniken Huitfeldt is a member of the Government. The representatives of Ågot Valle, Lodve Solholm, Heikki Holmås and Øystein Djupedal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Morten Høglund, The application concerns the leave of the representatives of Olav Gunnar Ballo, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Morten Højlund from 3 March to 7 March to take part in study trips to Serbia and Montenegro, organised by the Norwegian Embassy in Belgrade from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the Permit of the Representative Henning Skumsvoll from 3 March to 5 March to attend the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Ljubljana, Slovenia. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. - It is deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Vest-Agder County, Kjell Ivar Larsen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of the representative Henning Skumsvoll from 3 March to 5 March, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the West Agder County: Ivar HognestadFor Akershus County: Tove NyhusFor Finnmark: Kirsti SaxiFor Telemark County: Lise Wiik
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e154	Ivar Hognestad, Tove Nyhus and Lise Wiik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e160	The President will propose the election of three presidents for Stortinget's meetings today and for the rest of the week - and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solveig Horne, Anders Anundsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne, Anders Anundsen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e180	Export finance is the joint institution of banks and of the State to develop and provide competitive and long-term financing services to export industries and to the municipal sector. Export finance is the only specialised export credit institution we have in Norway. The Foundation offers both publicly supported export credits and market loans for a wide range of Norwegian export activities. In other words, it concerns the long-term financing of Norwegian export contracts and Norwegian export companies. The state owns 15 pst. of Export finance. The purpose of State ownership is to ensure Norwegian export companies competitive conditions compared to their foreign competitors. This is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. State ownership contributes itself to strengthening the creditworthiness of the company, even though the State has a commercial starting point for its involvement in the first place. Today, when the Stortinge discusses Export Finance, this has a direct connection with the turmoil in the international financial markets. Export finance had to account for unrealised losses of 786 million in 2007. kr in their holdings of debt securities and certificates. On the other hand, the institution has had unrealised gains on its deposits. The Board of Export Finance has therefore asked the shareholders of the company to contribute to the implementation of a SEK 1.2 billion share issue in the company. The capital increase is justified by an immediate need to increase the company's equity both in order to ensure the company's high credit rating and to meet the capital adequacy requirements. The board emphasises that the company's underlying operations are very good and that business opportunities in the future seem good. A Joint Nutrition Committee states that the State must safeguard its share values in Export Finance and join the Government's proposal to participate in the proposed share issue and that, in the interests of the creditworthiness of the company and the ability of Norwegian companies to participate in the export market, the State maintains its 15 p.m. share. The Committee also agrees that it may be reasonable to take into account further capital injections during 2008, within a global framework of 250 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e191	The rapporteur has explained the content of the proposal and that there is an overall committee behind the suspension and the proposal that the State participate in the export finance issue. The government owns a 15 p.m. minority position. in the company. Export finance is an important contributor to export financing for Norwegian enterprises and contributes to their achieving competitive financing conditions. The right considers ownership to be reasonable and based on commercial criteria. In view of this, it is natural that the State retains its holding when the company is required to carry out such an issue. Another and not fully priced argument to participate in the issue is that it is implemented at a significant discount. This means that owners who may not participate will lose large economic values. The State must therefore be part of the issue in order to protect its investment as an owner of Export Finance. The situation in Export Finance is quite special. The company has incurred a large unrealised loss of 786 million. kr per. the end of November 2007 in relation to the location of the liquidity portfolio. The company is therefore in a situation where it is forced to strengthen equity for its own creditworthiness. In a letter to the Committee dated 20 February, the Minister for Economic Affairs explained that the unrealised loss per year. The year-end was down to 588 million. kr, but there is reason to believe that the loss has increased in time afterwards. There is reason to stress that we normally perceive the risk of export financing to be linked to losses on loans and guarantees granted to companies operating in risky markets. This type of loss is more logical from the core activity of Export Finance. The loss that has arisen here, on the other hand, stems from the management of the liquidity portfolio held by the company in the financial market. By the end of November, this liquidity portfolio was NOK 73.4 billion, and parts of the portfolio are invested in so-called Asset Backed Securities, which I then understand is influenced by developments in the housing market in the United States. According to the proposition, these securities have initially had a good credit rating, so that the loss is unexpected and is likely to be contrary to the risk assessment on the basis of which they were originally based. The loss shows that there is a risk associated with the export finance business model that there is reason to consider. It is stated in the proposition that the Government will follow up the assessment by Export Finance of the importance of these experiences for business activities in the future in order to achieve the desired risk management and control. The Ministry further argues that the company does not increase the exposure to interest rate risk through new investments in the liquidity portfolio until the experience has been analysed and discussed with the owners. This, I think, is a proper and necessary management of the situation. Therefore, it is a little strange that the government parties do not seem to be as enthusiastic about this follow-up as they are not aware of the opposition's reference to this important conclusion in the position. We have also noticed that the Government has this time gone to the step of engaging a financial advisor in connection with the issue. It gives both the Government and the Stortinget a better basis for dealing with this matter. However, it is worth noting that the government's use of financial advisors in ownership policy on a case-by-case basis appears to be less consistent, as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade did not use any external financial advisors in the much larger and far more risky purchase of shares in Aker Holding. There would have been an advantage if the Government had established a reliable and orderly practice of quality assurance in the exercise of ownership policy. Finally, I would like to refer to letters from the Council of State dated 19 February 2007, which show that the financial industry in Norway has suffered little losses as a result of the turmoil in international financial markets. Material losses have been reported so far only from DnB NOR and Export Finance. Addressing the situation of international financial institutions, especially in the US financial market, this seems reassuring. The situation suggests that financial stability in Norway is good, which is of great importance for Norwegian enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e214	Export finance plays an important role for the export industry and the municipal sector in Norway. The company provides commercial loans to the Norwegian exporting industry and their customers and also manages the OECD-regulated agreement for publicly supported export financing. Through the wholly-owned subsidiary Kommunekreditt Norway, export finance also provides loans to the municipal sector and other public projects. The company finances its operations by collecting favourable loans in the international capital markets. Therefore, in order to offer competitive financing to its customers, the company depends on the best possible international credit standing. When the country entered the owner’s side of the company with a holding of 15 p.m. in 2001, it was precisely to help secure Norwegian export companies competitive conditions compared to their foreign competitors. In addition, it was considered that state ownership would help maintain Norwegian anchoring of an important competence environment. Let me stress that this has not been a bad investment on our part. An external valuation prepared on behalf of the Ministry has shown that the State's shares in Export Finance have had an annual return in the form of dividends and capital appreciation of close to 14 p.m. during the period 2001-2006. The concerns in the international capital markets have recently posed the challenges of export finance. The accounts for the second half of 2007 have been charged with unrealised losses related to a liquidity stock consisting mainly of bonds and certificates. However, according to the company, there may be reason to hope that the unrealised losses can be gradually reversed in the future based on the remaining maturity of the securities, but we should be careful to predict future market conditions. The recent financial turmoil is the background that the Board of Export Finance now wants to collect NOK 1.2 billion in new share capital from its owners. I note that a Joint Nutrition Committee joins the Government's proposal to participate in the capital increase in Export Finance under the conditions set out in the proposal. By participating within a framework of 250 million. kr the country’s holding of 15 pst. remain unchanged. I am pleased with the agreement of the nutrition committee. Such participation in the capital increase will safeguard the country's shareholder values and financial interests. It is also a pleasure in a debate on a matter of ownership to be able to stress that for once I fully agree with a comment from the Right. The current situation in the company, with large unrealised losses on the liquidity portfolio, illustrates that there is a financial risk in the company’s current business model. In my follow-up to the company in the future, I would therefore ask that the company assess the importance of these experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e229	The President would point out that as far as he can see, there is only one specific comment. It is not from the Right, but from the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian Party and the Left. So there is an overall opposition that the Council of State agreed with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e232	But, President, the surprise was that I agreed with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e237	The President noted that the Council of State agreed with the entire opposition. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2256]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e254	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e263	Inner. S. No 142 for 2007-2008 ensures Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace AS State guarantee to build a composite plant. Composite is an advanced material that is for the first time one of the eight strategic areas in the defence-related industry. Norway will soon decide on the purchase of new fighter aircraft and, in relation to the three suppliers concerned, the composite will be a material to be used by all. Norway has as its strategy that repurchase or industrial cooperation for this production is a target. This provides industrial opportunities for Norwegian working life. At the same time, considerable expenditure has been devoted to the development of a factory and machine equipment of this dimension. As you can see, it is both necessary and good that all the parts of the Stortinget outside the Progress Party are behind this guarantee. I must make it clear that I understand neither the foundation nor the reasoning of the Progress Party in this matter. I've seen this party as extremely defence-friendly and can't fully grasp why they don't want to be with us so that we can position ourselves for part deliveries now. For the majority, it's important to get started. The train is now running. But I expect the Progress Party to clarify its position on the matter. The guarantee will only be released if the Storting decides not to acquire new fighter aircraft. The majority emphasise that the guarantee is non-candidate. Very many of the companies that are located in and around the Kongsberg environment today have had their origins in defence technology companies and old Kongsberg weapons factories. Today, this environment has caused many bones to stand on, military and civil. Composite production is a new bone, which can be used in the long term in both military and civil aircraft industry, offshore industry, maritime industry and not least in the automotive industry. The state guarantee is great. The maximum frame is 737 million. kr. The state is sure to take care of itself. In the guarantee there are indications that the KDA is committed to repurchasing the factory for a minimum of 240 million. kr. The State is also free to dispose of the factory at a higher price. The net guarantee amount thus amounts to a maximum of 497 million. kr. This is a good example of how the Government wants to be involved in creating new jobs and contributing to an active industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e278	The question of state guarantee to Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace AS is, as I interpret it, about providing the composite plant at Kongsberg with some kind of security if the Stortinget torpedoes the customer base for the composite plant by saying no to the acquisition of new fighter aircraft. In the examination of the matter within the committee it has been appropriate to ask for additional information, as this matter is closely related to the purchase of fighter aircraft. As you know, our committee is not going to have the fighter aircraft deal with, and so there is currently little information sent to the committee about the industrial possibilities available at a fighter flight. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State points out that the Ministry of Defence has asked the relevant suppliers of fighter aircraft to answer questions about Request for Binding Information by the end of April, known as RBI. We expect the answers from the suppliers concerned to further clarify the matter and the possibility of the factory at Kongsberg. We are aware that the guarantee is being asked about this from Stortinget, will only be triggered if the Stortingen refuses to acquire new fighter aircraft, so that the industrial potential of a composite plant at Kongsberg should not be overemphasized, and that there is something the company's management must decide on. Nevertheless, we believe that the Stortinget should have the best possible information on the table before we decide on a State guarantee of three billion kroner. That information we believe is imminent, as it is short time for the so-called RBIs to be delivered. I would like to stress that we do not place ourselves negative on a State guarantee to Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace AS, and that we want to build up under production opportunities for the industry in Norway. But in this case, at this point, we are asking the other parties for a little bit more patience before we make a final decision. I would therefore like to end by promoting the motion for a resolution, asking for the matter to be sent back to the Government until the RBIs are delivered and the Government can make a roll-over proposal with supplementary information to the Committee and to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e291	The representative Kåre Fostervold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e294	I am pleased that a broad majority of the Committee supports the proposal to offer a guarantee to Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace for the construction of a new composite production plant. It is important for me to stress that the Government wants to compete for a possible delivery of a new fighter aircraft to Norway. It's through competition we get the best possible basis to assess which fighter aircraft Norway can get if we're going to buy. Competition also contributes to the spread of candidates, given industrial opportunities for Norwegian industry. There would be little doubt that the government has focused its industrial return on that process. Advanced composite is an area of growth. Several actors in Norway are leading within their niches. The composition is particularly relevant in the aerospace industry. That's why it's natural to view the acquisition of fighter aircraft as an opportunity to give the composite industry a boost. Then we need locomotives. The Kongsberg environment has proved to be a competitive supplier of knowledge-based and high-tech solutions in a demanding market. Today Kongsberg is one of Norway's most dynamic clusters. Repurchase contracts, not least related to the acquisition of F-16, have been an engine in that development. The government has faith in the importance of such strong environments. Therefore, Kongsberg and several other environments have gained the status of ‘Center of Expertise’. Emphasis is placed on strengthening interaction between large and small actors and developing skills and competitiveness. Much of the basis for the Kongsberg environment lies in the cooperation between the Defence and Industry. It's an area the Government has focused on. Last year, the Government promoted a big message about the relationship between defence and industry as strategic partners. The KDA factory shows that we have a lot to pick up on demanding industrial return from large acquisitions. Substantial composite production here will benefit other industries in Norway. Therefore, we have focused on ensuring composite production for fighter aircraft to Norway. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal for a guarantee to the KDA, thereby ensuring the implementation of the project. The factory built on Kongsberg shall initially produce for US JSF. Norway has participated for several years in international cooperation on the development and production of the JSF. The participation does not involve any obligations to purchase JSF, but gives us rights as a customer. In particular, our industry is given the opportunity to participate in one of the most advanced and forward-looking projects in the international aviation industry. The guarantee to the KDA contributes to the exploitation of the opportunities offered by JSF cooperation by industry. I would like to stress that both Eurofighter, SAAB/Gripen and Lockheed Martin have suggested Norwegian industry composite production at a possible acquisition. The fact that KDA's factory starts with production for JSF does not lead to the choice of aircraft. The factory will have the opportunity to deliver to others as well, if necessary. The guarantee is also not linked to the choice of a candidate, but to the issue of whether or not Norway is to acquire new fighter aircraft. It is only in the case that it is decided not to acquire fighter aircraft, that the guarantee will come into effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e317	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2256]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e332	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose to give rise to a succession of up to 5 lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e341	There's a big discussion along the coast about the king crab being a resource or a problem. After hearings we have had on this matter, it is clear that there are very divided views on it. Some people think of the royal crab as a plague and a plague that should have been wiped out, while others see it as an opportunity to create new activities and new nutrient development along the coast. The Committee, as it will state in its opinion, has many comments on this matter. Since it's such a new area, a new species, it's also obvious, if you look at the setting, that the committee is kind of looking for what you really want to do with the king crab in the future. I'll refer briefly to what the majority of the committee is in favour of-- essentially. First of all, we have chosen to separate a separate zone where we want to manage the king crab. It's east of North Cape, to take it a little rough, and up to the Russian border. In this area, we want to have the administration of the royal crab, because you see it as an opportunity to create nutrient development along the coast of this area, which is already a nutrient-poor area. In addition, we know that there is also a strong desire from the processing industry and from those who produce food, and from those who serve food, to take care of this resource. One challenge we've met is, who is going to be allowed to participate in this catch? It is a question of conflict that we have noticed well in the hearings. The majority of the Committee considers that those currently participating in king crab fisheries should continue to do so. In addition, we open the door to allow boats of less than 11 metres that belong to the zone to participate in the catch. The reason for this is that there is a lot of fjord fishing here, and boats less than 11 meters are well suited for that type of catch, and are also the ones who experience the challenges with the king crab. Another discussion has been if we're going to have population targets for king crabs. Here the Committee has come to the conclusion that we do not want it, simply because we still have too little knowledge of it, and that there is something we need to consider about maybe three to five years - whether we have enough knowledge then that we can set exact stock targets for this species. As far as its management is concerned, we believe that there is a type of decision that can be at the regional level. We know that today the management of this type of resource is at a national level. But this is so clearly confined to East Finland that we believe that future administration of the royal crab can be managed at regional level. In terms of value creation, we know that today it's between 60 million. NOK 80 million. kr. It doesn't sound that much, but for East Finland it's a substantial amount. As a result, several farms on land have started producing and processing royal crabs. It is therefore important to have a universal obligation to access these farms. That is why the majority of the Committee is committed to strict universal service, but we see that exemptions can be granted in very special cases. In the end, we have the son where you don't want to manage king crabs. What do we do with it? There are also king crabs west of North Cape and also north of the area. Most of us here in the committee want us to start what is known as desimation catches as quickly as possible. That means you're starting a fish that actually tries to eradicate the king crab outside the management zone. It's a very demanding job to get to it. But it is absolutely necessary not to spread down the coast, creating problems for the fishermen who are operating there. Therefore, the Committee wants the Government to find resources as quickly as possible to initiate the capture of the king crab.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e362	The Royal Crab has undoubtedly given new life to parts of the Finnmark coast. Crab fisheries contribute significantly to the profitability of the coastal fleet and crabs create new jobs in important communities. Bug eyes are an example of that -- a society that, in utter despair, wanted to sell itself for a few years back, but now has a new life and activity as a result of royal crab fishing. So we find that an alien species that should have been eradicated in normal circumstances has become an important resource that can be harvested and that contributes significantly to employment and residence in our very northernmost state. And that's exactly this dilemma The Greatness today, when we decide that the royal crab is a resource east of the North Cape and to the Russian border, except for the inner part of the Porsangerfjord. In this area, which also has its northern limit, the population of the royal crab shall be managed on a sustainable and long-term basis. Here it is to be harvested. This is where the king crab is supposed to be. Outside this area, free fishing is intended to minimise the stock. So there's no disagreement about this. All parties are committed to stimulating eradication by introducing a separate eradication premium, i.e. a form of gunshot premium, if we want to. On the other hand, there is disagreement about funding. The fishermen believe, the tradition believes, that the state should bear the entire costs of the scheme, while the Government has proposed that the premium be financed through a fund with State participation and a levy on the placing on the market of the crab. I think it is a good principle that the commercial exploitation of the royal crab helps to pay for the fight against the environmental problems that result from the crab’s migration southwards and northwards. And last but not least, it's us as consumers who pay, in this one, as in most other contexts. The eradication fisheries have also aroused significant commercial interest, and it is hoped that discards, gunning premiums and intensive fishing outside the commercial zone will effectively reduce the potential for crabs to spread further south along the coast and northwards of the Barents Sea. It's part of our international legal obligation. Through international conventions, we have committed ourselves to do our utmost to eradicate or limit the extent of alien species if an unacceptable risk to the ecosystem is likely, and the precautionary principle requires that we take action to avoid or reduce any damage to the marine environment. Then, of course, it is a problem that we do not know enough about the royal crab today, and we should acquire that knowledge as soon as possible. The uncertainty about the impact of the king crab on the ecosystem should therefore lead to an evaluation of management after five years and an annual assessment of the impact of the mitigation measures. I have said that before, and I repeat it also now: there is hardly a policy area where there are as many opinions and as strong contradictions as in the fisheries policy, almost down to the smallest detail. The King crab message is no exception in this way. This time, access to fishing in the commercial area is the main concern. The government proposes, and the government parties support, that more people now have access to the king crab fish. All vessels currently admitted to participate shall be able to continue to do so. At the same time, a general access to fishing for vessels below 11 metres from East Finland is opened. Of course, it is intended to contribute to increased nutritional activity in the areas most affected by the royal crab, and to the fact that the fishermen most plagued by the royal crab, i.e. those who over the year have had yarn and gear destroyed, are now going to be involved in harvesting this resource. These are small vessels with little mobility and few operational options. I think it would be unreasonable for them to have to meet certain qualification requirements in order to have access to the capture of royal crabs, precisely because the spread of royal crabs has made it difficult to meet the same qualification requirements in local fjords. The limitation that those who own more than one vessel may participate only in one vessel is now maintained. This will mean that a total of 500 vessels will be able to participate in the commercial capture of king crabs. King crab fishing has had good profitability. It will also continue to be so, whether or not the fish should be attractive. The extension of fishing to female crabs, with a separate quota, and the legalisation of by-catch will contribute to this. But it is clear that when more people access the fish, the quotas can also be reduced for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e381	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a good job in connection with the Royal Cancer report and at the same time just say that I am happy that we have received the message for treatment, because the Royal Cancer has been in the frontier country between being a plague and a plague and being an economic resource. I think it's important that the Storting stakes up the further strategy that we're going to have for the management of the royal crab. It is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that there is an important resource for many coastal communities, especially East Finland, and that this is a major scourge for the fishing industry. This also leads to loss of income. I am a little surprised that there are no more people who can participate in the proposals of the Progress Party, in which we consider a compensation scheme for those who suffer financial losses in the form of loss of use. Compared with other industries, such as the agricultural industry, there is no way in which there is support for the loss of livestock, which means that there is a national policy for predators. I hope that multiple games can be involved and evaluate that particular piece. Otherwise, this is in many ways a whole new thing. In part, there is a broad consensus within the Committee. As many have said, there are many opinions and little knowledge. It's an important element for us when we take a look at when this is to be evaluated. It is a majority of the committee, all except the Progress Party, which believes that it can be waited up to five years before an evaluation of it is to be carried out. We believe that this evaluation should really be carried out in the context of the state budget every year, so that we can see whether the actions that are being undertaken will work. One thing that separates us from the government parties is who should have access to this fishing. What the Government is proposing is that all brand-registered vessels less than 11 metres from East Finland should have area access. We think that is discrimination. We do not want there to be specific rules for vessels from East Finland. We believe that everyone should have equal opportunities. It has also received very broad support in the industry. What we want to warn against is also turning industrial policy into district policy in this area. We believe that the best regional policy you can have is simply to have a good industrial policy that does not differ by geographical constraints as to who can have the opportunity to participate. So we get a lot of support for that in the industry. I simply note that the proposals made by the Progress Party and by the other opposition parties also have broad support in the industry. We think that's a good sign. I would also like to make a few brief comments on some of the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party alone or with other parties. One concerns the introduction of universal service for land use facilities for king crabs. We think that is a very important proposal. Allowing on-board production can lead to the disappearance of the facilities that currently live from royal crab shelters, simply because they want on-board production. What could then be at risk is that when the catch of king crabs goes down, these production ships will disappear. Then you're in a situation where you don't have the opportunity to deliver royal crabs anywhere, and we think that'll be quite unfortunate, based on an ecological management of the royal crab. Furthermore, we also want a confiscation fund to be set up as soon as possible, and ask the Government to return to it in the revised state budget. When the Storting has dealt with this matter today, it is really clear to start. I also think it is very important that the industry knows what time frame the government will deal with, and can design its strategy based on it. In the broad sense, there is no mention of the large amounts, so it should be fully possible to obtain such a scheme from the autumn onwards, after the Stortinge has dealt with the revised state budget this summer. Finally, let me address the suggestions that we have made on page 19 of the vote together with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, and the proposals where we stand alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e400	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e403	I would like to begin by stating that it is very positive that a comprehensive policy for the management of the royal crab is now being adopted. The royal crab is an introduced species and poses major challenges in terms of overall management strategy. Initially, introduced species shall be controlled. It follows naturally from the precautionary principle and the negative experiences that have been found in many places related to the consequences of introduced species. There is still uncertainty about the impact of the king crab on the ecosystem. This uncertainty makes us per. the full picture of the advantages and disadvantages of the introduction of royal crabs into Norwegian waters is not present today. The King crab is in any case not easy to get rid of. Commercial management is run just across the border with Russia. The species is well established in Norwegian waters and has probably been here since approx. 1992. In addition, king crab fisheries provide an important income base in Finnmark, both for fishermen and for the processing industry. On the other hand, the royal crab is a true plague for fishermen in Finnmark who use yarn, and they are charged with heavy expenses and extra work when yarn and use are destroyed by the crab. The Economic and Social Committee is united behind the main conclusion that the management must rely on commercial capture in a clearly defined zone, but equally important, that it is a clear objective to limit further spread outside that zone. I think it is important and positive that there is a unanimous committee behind this strategy. In the case of commercial management, the economic size of royal crab fish is 60-80 million. kr in first hand turnover. This is thus a significant income for many fishermen and communities in North Norway. As for the way in which the commercial allowances for royal crab fish are to be allocated, there is a clear fundamental difference between what the Government is now proposing and what the opposition is dealing with in this matter. The right considers that the management to be carried out within the commercial zone should not deviate significantly from the general and well-established principles applicable to the management of fisheries at sea. Maintaining the principles of the fisheries policy is important for predictability, not least for other areas of fisheries management. This means that no special rules should be introduced to allow only vessels registered in Finnmark to participate in the catch. The right considers that such a geographical demarcation is unreasonable and unnecessary. In 2006 came 70 pst. of the vessels participating in the catch, from East Finland. 12 pst. came from West Finland, and the remaining 18 pst. divided into a number of counties. This clearly shows that the Finnmark population already has good access to the king crab catch and that a change in the law is unnecessary. Therefore, the right considers that the objective that fishermen affected by the by-catch problems with royal crabs will actually be taken into account in the capture of royal crabs by today’s legislation. The right will therefore vote against the amendment of the law of the participant law, which Odelstinget will deal with later today. The right considers that it is important to focus on an administration that ensures the profitability of an industry that is becoming increasingly important to many communities along the Finnmark coast. Therefore, the right considers that the current limits for participation in the catch should be continued. In addition, we believe that it is very unreasonable for ships over 11 metres to be discriminated against and excluded from the catch. In 2006, for example, there was an increase in the number of drug users in the EU. boats with a length of 10-15 metres for 80 pst. of the fishing activities. A large proportion of that catch is then taken from vessels over 11 metres in length. Future free catch from all vessels less than 11 metres at home in East Finland could in addition make the quotad fishing for king crabs unprofitable for many. In the longer term, such a strategy will stimulate the acquisition of fishing vessels below 11 metres and could pose a threat to the safety of vessels and persons in the fishing industry and to the fleet structure and raw material supply in Finnmark. That's why the Right is against the main lines of government's quota policy in terms of royal crabs. In general, the government places too much emphasis on retail regulation and political governance and too little on a profitable fisheries management. The processing of king crabs contributes to increased activity on land. It creates jobs in a region that is struggling with relocation. Therefore, the Right clearly sees the need for universality for royal crabs in Finnmark and suggests it in the vote. The right also believes that the Government, in cooperation with the land-based reception facilities, should develop a mechanism for dealing with damaged and small crabs that are not suitable for sale. The right sees royal crab as an important resource to exploit and will therefore facilitate further research on the roe from the royal crab. The right considers that there should be a separate additional quota for female crabs, small crabs and damaged crabs, because this is environmental work for which there should be clear incentives. We are also concerned about the effectiveness of the demersal fisheries in the catchment zone, and are therefore asking the Government to allocate funds to this fishery in the revised 2008 national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e426	The Storing message on the management of royal crabs is an important issue in both business and environmental contexts. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a group committee ends up taking care of both of these matters, pointing out that the crab is both a threat and a possibility. It is important to stress that keeping the var-spectrum is the basis for the management of the royal crab population, while at the same time taking into account economic operators and coastal communities in the areas where the king crab is already established. It is also positive that the majority in the Committee asks the Government to take action to secure stock calculations as the basis for the quota determination. Catch of royal crabs has a first-hand turnover of between 60 and 80 million. kr. This revenue has been important for some communities and for many fishermen, not least small-scale fishermen. In other communities, the royal crab has been a disadvantage. Many fishermen have also suffered disadvantages, not least because of by-catch. It is therefore positive that the aim is to enable the fishermen who have been the most vulnerable to by-catch problems with king crabs in other fisheries to participate in the capture of king crabs. However, there is also disunity in the committee on an important point. For the Christian People's Party it is important to listen to the fishermen. Many of these have pointed out that it would be unwise to change the rules of the day for participating in the fishing process. It is difficult to see why vessels less than 11 metres away from home in East Finland shall have a special right to free participation, while vessels both above and below 11 metres which live outside East Finland but which fish crabs in their area and experience the damage of crabs shall not have the same free access to royal crab fishing. It is also true that the limit for commercial fishing at 26°E was seen because one originally did not know that the king crab had had a significant spread in the Porsangerfjord. It is now confirmed that the king crab has largely established itself in this fjord as well. A collective opposition believes that the area for commercial fishing of royal crabs should cover the entire Porsangerfjord. The opposition party is more immoderate than the government party when it comes to disembarking fishing outside the commercial zone. We therefore proposed to the Government that the revised national budget for this year be set aside to launch desimation catches already during 2008. The Christian People's Party believes that there must be a universal obligation for royal crabs or a prohibition against onboard production. This will ensure that the royal crab is produced locally, and it will contribute to the access of the land industry to royal crabs as raw material. This will be important to secure the future of the rural industry. Such a universal service should be organised in a simple manner and will ensure competition between farms. Together with the other opposition parties, the Christian People's Party believes that there should be a ban on royal crabs outside the sons. The government has to clarify what is going to happen to the crab that a person picks up outside the sons, so that one does not weaken the economic basis for commercial capture. Then it is important to increase the research effort on king crabs, among other things. in the case of the possibility of receiving active fishing equipment targeted to ensure the capture of both small crabs and cephalopods. The government must inform the government annually about the developments in the royal crab situation in a manner that is suitable for this purpose. There should be a separate additional quota for crabs, small crabs and damaged crabs, because this is an environmental work that it should be incentive to carry out. It is worth noting that both business and environmental organisations listened to the line when the 2007 quota of 300000 crabs was too low. The 2008 quota must be increased accordingly. Finally, I would like to mention that if the administration regime of royal crabs were unable to prevent further spreading of the royal crab, the Christian People's Party will take the view that action can quickly be taken to limit growth and keep the population down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e458	Let me start by saying that it's very good that the Storting now puts the framework around the future administration of the royal crab. It's an introduced species, as there's been a lot of discussion around -- in what way you're going to manage it, and whether it's a resource, or whether it's a problem. It is also true that this is not just a national issue. We have international agreements that state that, to the extent that an introduced species is a significant problem or a threat to the established ecosystem, we have a commitment to initiate disincentives. I think that the balance that the government is proposing, and that, as far as I can see, an aggregate increase is joining, is a wise balance. A commercial zone will be established where this is considered to be a resource within a limited area. There is also a broad support for the principle that the stock outside should be as low as possible and that active measures should be implemented for disinfestation. We still know too little about the king crab that it's a good idea to fix the government on stoneboards. I am therefore pleased that we point to the need for and the importance of continued research and continued knowledge acquisition in the area of royal crabs, and that the entire administration is being reviewed in five years. As far as the various measures for disinfestation are concerned, it is my belief that free fishing combined with a fishing subsidy scheme will be very effective. Of course, we assume that the government in the government budget for next year will clarify the framework around it, and in what way this will be financed. What has created a lot of the debate here today is the restrictions on access to fishing within the management zone. There is a broad consensus that it is those who have been the hardest hit by the royal crab, who are going to have the greatest access to resources. That's why I don't think it's either unnatural or unreasonable for the government to come forward with proposals, which will join us, that it's the small local fishermen who are going to get the main access to catch the king crab. It is also important to stress that there is no one who per. are currently in the process of doing so, which is losing the rights they have already acquired. And then I also think it's worth mentioning that this is a limited resource. The first value is between 60 and 80 million. kr. That is - as far as I can see - another argument to ensure that those who are part of the scheme get a basis that is commercially interesting. It is estimated in the Storing Message that there are about 500 boats to be included, and divide it by a first-hand value of less than 100 million. kr, it should, in my opinion, be about there--and preferably a little above. I'm going to end by saying that what's the main discussion and perhaps one of the most important points here is related to whether this is an introduced species that represents a significant danger to the areas, to the ecosystems, in the north. We've put ourselves on a careful line. I'm glad. I am also pleased with the broad support given to the principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e475	I want to start by thanking the rapporteur for a good and tidy job in the matter. To sum up the debate so far, there is no doubt that the Stortinge regards the royal crab as an 'harmful animal' on which to make money. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where the population of royal crabs is growing and is constantly expanding its habitat. In addition, cooperation with Russia on the management of common stocks was concluded in 2006. Norway alone cannot manage the royal crab as an unwanted introduced species. If we are to be able to prevent further spread, it is necessary that someone earns money to take up the crab, otherwise it will be impossible to keep the royal crab stock under control. If the administration regime of the royal crab that the big message sketches, to which the Left largely supports, fails to prevent the further spread of the royal crab, the Left will call for the rapid introduction of other administrative measures - administrative measures where one considers the royal crab to be an undesirablely introduced species. If one is to do that, one of the main tasks must be to resume cooperation with Russia and to agree to keep the royal crab population as low as possible. As I said, the left supports large parts of the administrative regime to which this big message refers. If we're going to be able to prevent further spread, it's important that we get an effective dissipation fishing outside the commercial zone. Together with the Right and the Christian People's Party, the Left is asking for funds for a desimation catch in the revised state budget for 2008, so that the catch west of commercial territory can start as early as this year. The left is in favour of free access for all vessels in the context of a quotad fish for king crabs and is therefore in favour of the Government Parties' proposal to amend the Act of Participation. In principle, the Left believes that the framework around the fishing industry should continue to contribute to a differentiated structure and that the laws should not contribute to collecting rights too few hands. The postal address may also not be the basis for participating in a fish. I would also point out that the royal crab does not only damage boats less than 11 meters or people living along the coast of East Finland. The left also believes that the entire Porsangerfjord should be part of the commercial zone. It's because the crab is unlikely to stop and turn around, even if you've created a protective area in the inner parts of the Porsangerfjord. Government parties say little in their comments about the extent of the crab extraction. The left considers that the withdrawal should be significantly higher than the current 300,000 individuals, we should be able to gain control of the population. And when we know that 3 million individuals were taken out on the Russian side in 2006, the Left believes that the Government, in cooperation with research institutions, must significantly increase the output of male and female crabs, so that it becomes attractive to fish for the existing and the new boats that have access to fishing. There should also be separate additional quotas for female crabs, small crabs and damaged crabs. As mentioned above, fishermen must be compensated for taking the crab into land. The left is concerned about what to do with the crab that is not negotiable as food. Therefore, we want the Government, in cooperation with the land-based reception facilities, to develop arrangements for dealing with damaged and small crabs, which are not suitable for sale. The left believes it's important to find the balance between an outbound that's economically interesting and an outbound that's ecologically correct. It's important that you get a steady output, so that you avoid high output peaks, and then you become a witness to little or no socket. It is necessary to build up an infrastructure, a trust in the market and a creativity in providing the great food as it is, and predictability is important. There are several speakers who have been concerned with the importance of research. The Left too would stress the importance of following this closely with research and having programmes to interpret the development of the spread of the royal crab. In addition, I would like to stress the importance of this being a good raw material that also needs to develop further products - it is a young industry, of course - and it is important that a few products that are well paid in the market. I hope that the Council of State will follow up these signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e505	When we discuss fisheries policy here in the Chamber, predictability is often discussed. On the basis of that, I am very pleased that there is broad support for the main objective proposed by the Government for the Royal Cancer Policy, namely that we should limit as far as possible the further spread of royal crabs in Norwegian sea areas and ensure the lowest possible population of royal crabs outside the commercial area. The government wants to draw attention to possible impacts on the ecosystem as a result of the entry of the king crab. At the same time, economic operators and coastal communities must be taken into account in areas where the king crab is already established. In line with international law, it is up to each country to assess the risk posed by a foreign species and to take the necessary measures to reduce that risk. The management strategy presented in the Communication is in line with the Government’s policy to take stock of goods and it is also in line with Norway’s international commitments. For the sake of coastal communities and economic activity in the areas where the crab is already established, we still want an area for commercial fishing. Here it will continuously walk crabs westward from the Russian side. On the Russian side, the population is at least ten times larger. A commercial catch area may also contribute to limiting the further spread of crabs. Commercial fishing contributes to the maintenance of shore-based infrastructure and reception capacity, which may help to stimulate fishing efforts in areas where free fishing is possible. So we see examples of that already today, that the Bug Eyes reception facility buys king crabs from the catch in the west. Many have been concerned that economic incentives should be put in place to speed up the free catch. That's what the government is going to tackle, and we're going to come back to that in 2008. We will also facilitate state support for product and market development so that the crab that is currently not commercially exploited can generate value creation. It can be done through the marine value creation programme and through schemes operated by Innovation Norway. The impact of the dissemination mitigation measures will be assessed annually. It is in addition to the evaluation planned after five years. The Communication reviews existing research and knowledge in this area. Much is already done in the field of research. But there is no doubt that today we do not know enough about the impact of the king crab in our waters. Lack of historical monitoring of the soil fauna in the areas before the crab came, it's too late to do anything about now -- but we have to follow developments closely in the future. The Government has proposed that vessels which are currently admitted to participate should continue to participate in the commercial area irrespective of their size and where the owners of the vessels reside. In addition, we want a separate area access for vessels less than 11 metres from East Finland, including the municipalities Nordkapp and Porsanger. To this end, a separate legal framework must be established. Since, in particular, small and small mobile boats are suffering from the invasion of crabs in their neighbourhoods, we have proposed limiting the area access to the smallest vessels. This means in practice implementing the principle that the most severely affected by the royal crab should also have the first right to harvest crabs. The number of vessels participating in the catch may be doubled as a result of such territorial access. It will result in reduced allowances if the total allowance is held at the current level. However, we have found that particular attention to the smallest vessels with few operational options must weigh more than maintaining the highest possible revenue for those who are already in the catch. It is a goal of the Government to regulate the population of royal crabs in a way that both takes the lead in goods and provides the basis for economic activity and employment. The administration of the king crab must be balanced between the crab such as plague and plague and the king crab as a resource, which many people have been involved in. I believe that we have managed to balance the two considerations in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e529	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e532	As several have been the subject of the debate, the royal crab is an introduced species and constitutes both an economic resource and a burden for the industry. It is important to start fishing for extinction outside the zone. It's a unanimous big deal. But in order to get it going, economic instruments are needed. I have a question for the Council of State. If the appropriations are entered in the budget for 2009, eradication fishing is not started until the autumn of 2009, simply because there is no vessel or capacity. But will the Council of State ensure that the eradication fish of the royal crab outside the commercial zone will be launched during 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e539	I am very pleased that the majority of the committee has joined the Government's drawing in this area, namely that it needs to be stronger to catch the crab outside the commercial area. I don't dare from the pulpit here today promise any date for the reinforced disembarkation fish to start, but I promise that we will come back to the matter during 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e546	The majority of the population today adopts a general access for all branded vessels below 11 metres from East Finland to participate in king crab fishing. It is stated in the notice that there will then be a fleet of 500 vessels that can share on a resource base of only 60-80 million. kr per year. The question then arises how the Council of State believes that this release of small vessels will affect the profitability of the fleet that is already fishing king crabs today. Is this enough a proposal from this government that weakens the income base of today's fishermen? There is also another objection from industry that such stimulation of small craft will represent a threat to the personal safety of the fleet and will have a negative impact on fleet size and raw material access in Finnmark. How do the Council of State assess these objections?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e553	First of all, if you thought that fishing with small vessels was too risky on the part of the fisheries authorities, you should ban fishing with vessels less than 11 metres. I believe it is safe to fish with vessels less than 11 meters, and it is already available today to fish with king crabs with boats less than 11 meters. One of the government's concerns in the presentation of the message discussed here today is that, in practice too, not only in the word, it should implement the principle that the most severely affected by the royal crab should also have the first right to exploit that resource. Who is the hardest hit? Well, it's the smallest vessels, that can't get away from the areas where the king crab lives, and that are very difficult to find in other areas where they're fishing in peace. That is why we have prioritised the smallest boats in East Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e560	The limit for commercial fishing is 26 degrees east. Previously, one did not think that there had been any particular expansion of royal crabs in the Porsangerfjord, but now experience shows that the Porsangerfjord is also clearly invaded by royal crabs. The question is: doesn't the Council see that it would make sense to give the opposition right at this point, simply to let the Porsangerfjord also be in the area of king crab fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e567	I have noticed the involvement of the opposition in this matter, and also from part of the fishing community. I would have understood the protests if you had put restrictions on the access of the local fleet to fishing crabs in the heart of the fjord, but that's the opposite thing to do. They're now going to be allowed to fish as much as they can, and I think that's actually fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e572	As of today, it is not possible to conclude that the royal crab has contributed to permanent and irreversible changes in the species community along the Norwegian coast. It's a pleasure. As I said in my post, it is important to follow this development with vigilance and base the precautionary principle on the spread of the king crab. Now we've been told that the royal crab has an incredible reproductive capacity, a female crab can have up to half a million eggs and can walk great distances. It has been given signals that specimens of the species have been found all the way down to the Trendelagskysten. My question is: is the Council of State concerned that there may be an uncontrolled spread of the royal crab, which leads to damage also to other fisheries and plant life on the seabed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e579	Let me first make it clear that I fully agree with the representatives of Kongshaug's general considerations about the theme of royal crabs and ecology. Clearly, it is not desirable for the royal crab to spread, and that is why we are also concerned about putting in place stronger measures to prevent the crab from spreading. We are also going to do an annual summary of dispersal measures, so that we have first-hand knowledge of the topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e584	Let me just start by thanking the Council of State for the answer to my previous line, because I'm interpreting it there to the point that there's going to be appropriations in revision. We're happy about that. In reply to the representative, Torbjørn Hansen, the Council of State stated that there were many people who were plagued by the royal crab, and that resulted in considerable expenses and damage to fishing equipment and such. We have put forward a proposal to assess a compensation system for those who are being plagued, precisely because the policy of the monarchy is a national policy. Compare with, for example: in the case of predators that have caused the losses, it replaces the loss of pure, sheep and cattle on pasture. You also have crop damage compensation for grain and grass and what you grow. In other words, these two industries are treated differently. Will the Council consider introducing a compensation scheme for those who have their fishing equipment damaged in connection with the royal crab?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e593	I find it very difficult to compare the agricultural industry directly with the fishing industry. The fishing industry is a subsidy-free industry today, and I thought the policy of the Progress Party was to remove subsidies in agriculture, not to introduce them into the fishing industry. In the case of compensation schemes, I believe that the money we may put into the Royal Cancer Administration will be used to prevent the royal crab from doing any damage in the future. I think that is a policy which has broad support.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e599	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e604	The king crab administration that we're now adding, balances -- as I see it -- so that the king crab is both a resource and a nuisance, but nevertheless it is well balanced. Commercial fishing shall be carried forward, and consideration will be given to the importance of king crab nutrition for workplaces and settlements, especially in East Finland. In fact, the King crab already has a value approaching NOK 100 million, and so it's an important economic resource. He is eager to create considerable optimism in small communities in East Finland, for example. in Bug eyes, where crabs have been particularly important for the coastal fleet. The royal crab also provides exciting alternative food routes, such as: travel life. Arctic king crab safari and royal crab festival attract many visitors. It is especially the Japanese market that is important for Norwegian royal crab exports, but also the United States and the EU have gradually increased the focus on this delicateness. Royal crab is an exclusive gourmet product for which consumers pay well. And even though Norway didn't win the World Cup in a cooking game last year, the king crab did. He was one of the most central ingredients in the competition. If we manage this resource in a reasonable way, and invest in new markets and new products, I'm pretty sure that the king crab will be a source of employment and prosperity on the Finnmark coast for years to come. State aid schemes shall also contribute to product and market development, where Innovation Norway and the Marine Value Creation Programme are central. Today, it is mainly the large male crab tracks that are being exploited commercially. There are, for example: no market for the disposal of small crabs, either nationally or internationally. We have to get that if we are to keep up an active fishing effort for a longer period of time. For both resource and economic reasons, it will be important to put in place activities such as: also in use damaged crab. It will also stimulate active fishing in areas where the king crab is undesirable and will result in the crab being taken ashore and exploited as a by-catch. Landing of king crabs is important for the rural industry in small communities and, during the hearing, several expressed concern that large vessels with on-board production could destroy the raw material base of coastal communities. We take this seriously, and I am therefore pleased that the Government has proposed that a ban on on-board production be introduced as a general rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e619	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2257]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e636	We are living in 2008, and the police and authorities need to constantly assess new and changed threat images and adapt their work and organisation to this. It recognised the Stortinget when we dealt with the police role report in 2006, which was designed by the previous government. Increased internationalisation and increased mobility mean that police have to deal with a crime that has become increasingly cross-border. Organized criminal networks operating in several countries have, as we have seen, put the fight against crime against new challenges, like a ‘pocketman’ who may have raided the country and exploited the weaknesses of the system and the lack of coordination optimally. A total staggering is clear that we cannot allow ourselves to live in the past, be nostalgic or put what was before, into a sort of glorified light - nor how the police and lingerie seat should look in the future. However, the size was crystal clear that we should not throw out the police with the bath water, because it is more fancy to work with this new crime. The Government therefore stresses in the Soria Moria Declaration that it will have a ‘close and strong police force with officers’ offices throughout the country’, an establishment that is actively present and provides security and that is visible and effective. A unanimous rise thought that both were important in order to continue to maintain the high level of confidence of the population in the police. A decentralised service structure is a prerequisite for good close-up police effects in order to create security and trust. The majority of the population, minus the party of progress, also linked this with the changes in civil justice on the basic plane and thought that these two things mutually supported each other. In the committee position for the police role report, there is one sentence that I'd like to put forward that some people would use as a fig leaf in the change proposed in the Follo Police District, namely that we were going to base ‘any possibility of embellishment of the framework for organising the local police service to ensure the recruitment of police-trained personnel and the improvement of the local service’. Section 16 of the Police Act provides for border controls, which in each case is a matter for the Government of the State Council. The size then opened up for an adjustment in the organisation locally, with limited trials in selected districts. The investigation into Follo Police District is not an adjustment. There is a rapprochement of the local police in one of the country's most populous strikes and with major urban challenges, with its neighbourhood to both Oslo and the Swedish border. Lowering ten offices in this area is also not a limited experiment, but an extensive one. This so-called limited adjustment attempt is provided for evaluated less than one year after the Government, hopefully, does not accept it. The effect is supposed to be approx. 20 more men to operational service -- perhaps so far as a patrol. Then we're down into 16-17 men, after the last numbers I've heard. What the result is, you might know in three or five years, according to the backers of this investigation. Then you can start to wonder what it is you have to evaluate, unless you've decided in advance that you want to use this as a breaker bar to put down janitor offices in other parts of the country, where there are a little smaller people. On the way, when I have asked questions about these alleged effects, not least in terms of the realism of the figures used, it has been about like dealing with one of the few exercises in which Norway has taken gold in the summer Olympics, namely shots on running game. With regard to virtually any suggestively detailed question about the costs of establishing larger units in Frogn or Ski Municipality, any suggestively detailed question about the leases to be concluded in advance, any suggestively detailed question about how many will actually get into the patrol, and not least about any meaningful detailed question about how to remedy the loss of prevention locally, the answers have been mildly said to be ‘wishy-washy’, to the extent that it is a parliamentary expression. And for every single meeting I've had with local officials trying to defend this, it's become increasingly clear that there's no one who has a genuine commitment to this reform. That's just an acceptance that they've given up, after last year's state council wrote the following about the fact that Follo police district receives half a million less a week than for example. Asker and Bærum: ‘Full police districts have a satisfactory resource situation’ — compared to other police districts. Both the Council of State and the Right have been concerned that local politicians need to become more local ministers of justice. In this case, it is as far as they have been given the opportunity to do so. There have been deadlines that are close to a parody in a democratic context, and there is a feeling that decisions are made only without regard to the citizens and local people. It has characterized the process before finally being pushed forward and held a number of public meetings. Last but not least, the municipalities were given the opportunity to put words on how they experienced it all on behalf of their citizens. I think they deserve honor and not to be considered as a hindsight. They don't work to keep four walls and an office, they work to keep what's happening inside and outside the four walls, with people with local knowledge and commitment to what's happening locally. It's a work that creates security for people, not least for young people who are in danger of falling outside, and who can never be recovered if you don't pick them up early and clearly. During the National Council of the Police Union, the Council of State used 15 of its 20 minutes on the resource situation in the police to talk about the importance of the presence of, for example: The Balkans, three minutes about how tricked it was to bake a bread if you were stressed, and two minutes about the resource situation. The Council of State is right that we must be present, for example. in the Balkans. Crime is often international, but it becomes a bit paradoxical to add to the presence of the Balkans rather than neighbouring municipalities. Many have refuted the argument that local knowledge is important also in the civil justice field on the basic plane. You can always get a passport. But this argument is not about passport issue. Those who hare at it probably don't belong to those of us who sit at the bottom of the table with debt problems and have the narcissist on their necks every waking moment. Those who argue in this way are unlikely to be aware of the importance of local labour offices with an overview of the population, such as the United Kingdom. has a different ethnic or religious background, which makes debt recovery and contact with the population a little more humane than it is where you do not have such knowledge. In conclusion, I have a great deal of understanding that the police are struggling with recruitment, the percentage of clarification and making suggestions to get more out of the money they unfortunately have too little, e.g. in Follo. The question, however, is this: is there going to be more or less prevention the further away from local communities? Do you get more or less an overview of the longer you are away from the communities? Is the threshold getting higher or lower to contact both ways the further away from the communities and the people it's about? I think the answer is obvious. I hope that the Council of State answers the interpellation more humbly to the local politicians who have engaged than what he does in the Eastern Page of March 1st, when he almost suggests that the local politicians of the district are completely incompetent. He actually suggests that today's crime scene is not taken seriously by them, and out of the loose air he claims that they seem to be most occupied with coffee makers and office desks. These local politicians are no more reactionary than they remember what the Council of State said five months ago, when he stressed that the decision was definitely not made and that they should be listened to. Nor can they be blamed for being particularly conservative when they remember that the Council of State as a prime minister in the Evening Post in 2004, and repeatedly in the media, has underlined the need for more money to lubricate the police reform, that he also required increased appropriations for the police, and that they had to be earmarked for close police in local service locations. Nor can they be blamed for not having understood what the Stortinget meant, namely that it has not opened the door to a rapture of the janitor's offices because of police operating budgets, which under this government have actually become smaller, no matter how much one tries to talk up the annual natural nominal increases. As for the interpretation of what Stortinget has said, of course, I should not suggest that the Council of State is moving at the limit of what can be described as true, but I have to say that it is a very creative interpretation of what the previous government meant, and what the majority of the population meant, as to how extensive the trials should be. The right has never agreed to open this kind of extensive trial and fury of the cannon offices that you put up to, and I would assume that it concerns several representatives from the former government parties who participated in the conciliation - if you can call it - about the police role message. My question concerns whether the Council of State will at all be committed to postponing and taking decisions on this. Do you want to make sure that it is properly investigated? Will it be ensured that the Stortinge is informed about something that is one of the main projects we have seen in the area of reorganisations without clear mandates from the Stortinge? Or: Does he put with this template for breaking with the Storting's premise for near-police in Follo, as a breaker to do so later on in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e680	The President is in doubt that ‘wishy-washy’ is at all an expression, and therefore does not consider it justified.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e683	I fully agree with the interpellant that it is important that the local authorities be consulted on such an important issue as we are discussing here. Then I find it a little strange that the interpellant is really one of the first from this pulpit who is involved in limiting this whole debate, in the sense that you almost just dismiss all the proposals, and brings this debate into the Grand Duchy now. So this is a matter that the department has not yet received. As I've explained several times, we're going to solve this in a serious way, but we're going to have a debate on the basis of a work that's going on outside, without the government and the department starting to evaluate the hearings that actually come. I'm not sure what really opens up to local debate, whether it shouldn't be precisely that one refrains from drawing this debate into the main hall at an early stage. But an answer shall be given. St.meld. No 42 for 2004-2005, the police role report, states that the overall objective of the police is to increase social security. Security requires close and accessible police with good relations with the public and local elected authorities. The evaluation of the police reform carried out in 2006 points out that there are too many small districts and that the organisation at service level is little rational. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the size of the county councils should ensure adequate scope for tasks and the ability to recruit and retain competences. The evaluation also points to the potential of enhanced cooperation with and involvement of local authorities and other local actors. Follo police districts, together with the Hordaland police district, are designated as test districts where border regulations, the establishment of police councils and participation in public service offices, among others. shall be seen in the context of the work on further development of the organisation locally. The commission to launch this pilot project was given by the Ministry of Justice in a letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police on 4 January 2007. On a proposal from the Directorate of Police, the Ministry of Justice agreed that the above-mentioned police districts were chosen as test districts on 21 February 2007. This is a follow-up to the treatment in Stortingen of the police role message, St.meld. No 42 for 2004-2005 and the position of the Justice Committee, Innst. S. No 145 for 2005-2006. This position of the Judicial Committee states that the Committee will have an active and comprehensive fight against crime. The aim of the police shall be to prevent better, clarify more and respond more quickly. This is why the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights wishes, inter alia: targeted and balanced involvement of the police, in the context of justice and criminal justice. Furthermore, the Judicial Committee stresses that we should have a close and strong police force and wish to maintain the active presence of the Police and National Assembly in the community as a security force of the population. The opinions of the Judicial Committee are in line with the Governmentinga's objective in the Soria Moria Declaration, which states that the Government will have a locally anchored police force. The government wants a close and strong police force with officers' offices all over the country and will make the department more visible and effective, among other things. by reviewing the possibility of co-location with public service agencies, where appropriate. The government will further develop cooperation between different agencies on crime prevention, introduce police councils in the municipalities and amend the Planning and Building Act so that municipalities are obliged to take criminal prevention considerations into account in their planning. The Committee points out in its opinion that social conditions and tasks are changing over time, and that the structure of the policing and policing system cannot therefore be completely fixed. The Committee felt that there should be a certain opportunity to soften the framework for organising police services locally, including: to ensure the good recruitment of police-trained personnel and the better provision of services locally. In its setting, the Committee wished to open up adjustments to the organisation locally with limited trials in selected districts. This is a vision that I, as Minister of Justice, support. So this is the Stortinget's wish in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 42 and the Committee's position, from which I have referred, on the basis of which the Ministry of Justice asked the Police Directorate to set up a trial project in two police districts. The representative, André Oktay Dahl, in his interview, alludes to the fact that the processes in Follo Police District have been contrary to the signals and assumptions of the Storting. The above statement should show that the follow-up by the Government to the police role message is in line with the signals and leadership given by the Stortinget. In that case, it is necessary to await the final conclusion of what the Government had to achieve when this work came to the Department and we have had the process we want in the Department, among other things. with the municipalities concerned. It is known that we have already had one meeting today. I have also invited several meetings to just get signals, but also, with all due respect, to get suggestions for possible improvements out there, and not only have a reluctance to be in a process. The evaluation of the 2000 Police Reform Phases 1 and 2 has shown that it has provided the police and officers' seat with organisational and resource benefits, particularly in the context of a more effective fight against the very serious crime and organised crime. The reform has also contributed to building, exploiting and maintaining competences. The evaluation also points out that the police have a challenge in relation to being present in the local environment, working to prevent, clarify everyday crime, and not least, as I have explained many times, be close to where it really counts to be close. The children who are subjected to violence and abuse, as I have mentioned as an example, and I allow myself to do so here, as well as the women who are subjected to assault, have very little historical experience of being close to the police. It's a challenge that I think we're all going to take over. In the context of the evaluation, several have stated that the Police and Leniency College could free up more resources for operational police work with additional border controls in Police-Norway, especially at the level of the holding. The government has been restrained in relation to further border controls, precisely in terms of our desire for the audience to be close to the police. We have opened up border controls where there has been agreement on the solution, such as: between Lunner and Gran Länsmannskontoret in Hadeland, and where the municipalities have ended up about it. Through the pilot projects in Follo and in the Hordaland police districts, the government wants to review and test possible organisational models that can work even more cost-effectively, without weakening the police’s proximity to the public, preventing crime and responding time. On the contrary, we believe that the objective must be to put freed resources into this work and to strengthen the police's efforts in this field. In addition to the best possible organisation, resource access is an important factor in the success of a decentralised, preventive and security-promoting police and county council. With resource access, I mean both money and personnel. The government has strengthened the police and the prosecution authority with nearly half a billion kroner since we joined, divided by approx. 260 million. kr during 2006 and 2007, and approx. 245 million. SEK in 2008, among others to the major DNA reform to be implemented during this year. In 2007, 432 students were admitted to the Police College, which is continuing in 2008, based on an application to the Police College, which for the 2008 recording was higher than the 2007 recording. There are some people who make it like there are fewer and fewer applicants for the Police College, which I find hard to read from the numbers we actually have. In other words, this is a number of students at the Police College we haven't had since 1997 and 1998. This strengthens the position of police and officers in a resourceful way, both in the short and longer term. I allow myself again to note that there had been more graduates from the Police College already, if not the previous government had operated on such low recording figures as it really did. In order to ensure a good and long-term development of the Norwegian police, the Ministry of Justice, in the light of the Stortingen's treatment of the police report, has commissioned the Police Directorate to investigate the training and staffing needs of the police and the county Senate, both in relation to police-trained personnel and personnel with other education, until 2015. The report shall be available in June of this year. In addition, the Police Directorate has been entrusted with a review of any requirements to be made for police response time, based on a differentiation based on settlement, geographical situation and severity of the incident. The police directorate’s report, which will also include an assessment of the impact this will have on current resource frameworks, will be assessed in the context of the manning inquiry. The government wants to build a framework for the Norwegian police and officers' seat which, in addition to the best possible organisation, must also adapt to the personnel needs and be given a financial framework required by a security-creating police. Overall, this will increase police force in the coming years. This is an important backtrace when local organisation is now being discussed, among others. in Follo. The arguments for launching the trial project in Follo and in Hordaland were to consider whether border controls, in conjunction with service offices and police councils, could provide greater opportunities and resources for, among other things. preventing crime and strengthening the close relationship our police have with the public, while at the same time wanting to be even better at combating serious and organised crime and other types of crime we rarely see. In addition, we wanted to look at possible organisational ways that could make it easier to recruit trained personnel and keep it. I would like to end by saying that it is crucial at a time when we spend so much money on the police, bet more on the police, bets to build up a reconciliation queue that is soon gone, bets on the justice sector in general, that we also allow ourselves to have rounds on how we use the funds we are actually given. I am convinced that the Norwegian police force will also have a lot to pick up to see if you are actually using the crowns as best you can. That should also sound good to the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e746	The council once again shows that he has a completely different policy in place than he had in opposition, because then money was the solution to everything - but enough about it. So to this amazement that we're responding to this. It is not the case that the police are launching this trial project without any kind of indirect signals from the political team. You're not suggesting that ten county offices be closed without having an idea that it's going to be accepted by someone - maybe via POD, who might have talked to someone in the department - even though it's formally true that the Council of State is of course going to deal with this at a later stage. It is that the Council of State has already concluded in the media. He polishes against local politicians who say that this is wrong, and then they are accused of being old-fashioned. And that there should be so much wonder that you bring such a case into the main hall? It should not be very unusual to discuss things in Stortinget, when it appears that the Council of State is in breach of the conditions imposed by the Stortinget when dealing with the police role report. That's actually a good reason. Although the Council of State will probably have requested that the minority in this Chamber point out the deviation between promises in the Soria Moria Declaration and what is actually provided for by the majority of the population and the government that made the police role message, I think it is special that he does not find reason--and accepts--that it is perfectly legitimate to discuss the kind of breach of promises and violations of the Storting's assumptions in this Chamber, even though he would prefer to discuss this behind closed doors in the government offices and hope that no one will find out. So once again, the Council of State came with these numbers. The numbers are 72 versus 125. 72 new posts have been created in three budgets by this government, 125 created in two budgets by the previous government. Now it's time to start dealing with those numbers. I want to go so far as to say that it's time for the Council of State to say the real numbers, because this is repeated and repeated indefinitely, without accepting that the numbers are 72 to the Council of State and 125 to the next speaker gradually, former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum. So it's this with dialogue. I am very pleased that a meeting earlier today opened a dialogue with the municipalities. But along the way, I have some questions that I hope the Council of State can answer: Can the Council of State assure us that the present investigation will be put in the drawer until quality assurance is given to the figures and assumptions for them, and explain to the Government before a decision is taken in the Council of State? Is the Council open to postpone the decision at least until 2009 and, not least, will provide for a process in which an evaluation will also be carried out? Can the Council of State confirm that the police council is not and has never been meant to be a substitute for a county office? Can the Council of State define what the so-called police posts should do in comparison with today's officers' offices? And can the Council of State explain how the civil justice of the basic plan is to be organised within the model you may then choose, and explain how it can also be in the pact with the reform adopted by the Stortinge in the previous period? Can I also raise a point of order at the end? What has been annoying to many is that some representatives in this room have a body language towards speakers on the pulpit that they might consider thinking about in terms of signalling. I don't think it's right for representatives who sit in the hall when other people talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e761	There are many strange claims that are now coming over the pulpit. I really have to say that. I find reason to stress: this is a matter that the Ministry and the Government have not started to deal with. Today we had an early three-quarters meeting with both the rapporteurs and representatives of the Municipal Councils, who, at my discretion, were a good meeting, where I also signaled that we need to talk more about this when the matter comes to the department. I find it very subtle and strange then to be accused almost to drive a process without listening to the municipalities. We're going to take the time to do that, and I can confirm from this pulpit that we're going to take enough time to do that. Then it is claimed that money was the solution to everything when I was in opposition. That's not right. We thought the Police and Lena's seat should be strengthened, yes. That was the background for us choosing to go in with extra money in 2006, 2007 and 2008. This year alone, we're going to spend almost 70 million dollars. kr on a major DNA reform. But that was not just the money that was pointed out. The right-hand representative has to check his sources much better. Then he wants to find out that there were recordings to establish children's houses, to think about new things in the police. There were recordings to establish the entire DNA system, which required legislative change, and which has now been carried out. The size has joined it. There were recordings to establish the police councils, which should not be an alternative to officers' offices, seagoing. There was also a lot of input from the opposition to get rid of the reconciliation queue, which was one of the requirements that you just got from Follo, because you didn't find the maintenance space or the parking space. This is a situation in which the government has seized, so that we find it difficult now to be accused of a breach of promises, all the time you haven't dealt with a matter that exists in Follo. I think it actually helps to limit the debate that is going to happen outside, and I think we should be open to that. With regard to the question of the Police College, the representative Oktay Dahl is doing an arithmetic with respect to 72 and 125. It's like this government has a recording of 432 students. That's what counts. It was the previous government never near by. So the 125 students they had to increase by are something we've embedded in our numbers. We're also going to pick up those students, but then we're going to pick up 72 students. It's not the numbers and the difference between the increase that's interesting, but the total of police students. What makes the government a record big in three years is that we're up in 432 students, a figure the previous government wasn't near. Had we had that number in the previous period, we would have had far more graduates today. It can't turn the opposition away. Then we would also be able to better fill the vacancies we have out, and that would have given more security and less crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e772	I have to say that I don't understand what the interpellant really means when he determines in his question that Follo police districts are losing their neighbourhood police if the proposal presented is implemented. He also notes that this proposal is a frenzy of police prevention. I also find it a bit touching that the Right now is so busy with construction, while they refuse to say anything about how the service content should actually be resolved. I have trouble reaching the same conclusion, and the reasons for that are many. Firstly, I think it is unwise to establish the results of a test project that is not even ready-designed and started. Secondly, the representative Dahl, like me, knows that we have some major challenges in how we can better solve the crime challenges in Norway - and not just in Follo. It is not that this project is primarily about economics. It's about human capital. Today we have too few police-trained people in Norway. It takes three years to train a policeman/woman, and even if the government has increased educational capacity, we will have to deal with this problem for years to come. That means we have to consider how to get the most service out of the police officers we have. There was also the background to the fact that the Judicial Committee ordered this trial project in the course of the examination of St.meld. No 42 for 2004-2005. I also believe that it has not been given that a loner's office in itself automatically provides a strong and good police force. The problem with having a lot of volunteer offices is that we're tying up too many resources to serve the offices. I want as much police as possible in the field. I want a police officer who comes when someone calls, when someone needs them. I want a police officer who can work according to the methods that are determined. That's when you can find out and solve crime the best. If we manage to release resources in this way, while the police service is not significantly impaired, it is a positive solution. How will this turn out in Follo? It's too early to say, but I want to comment on some of the arguments that have been used. The investigation by the police themselves shows that by laying down ten offices in Follo, you will get a 30 pst increase in the patrol service. For Follo's part, that means one more 24-hour continuous patrol. There is an extra patrol that can be used for prevention work using the pop method, which the police are to use. I think that is in stark contrast to what Dahl claims, namely that it is a breakdown of prevention work. On the contrary, there is one additional patrol to do preventive work. Another element of the project is that it will provide more robust professional environments due to more clean cultivation of the annual works. The police themselves claim that this is necessary, especially in relation to investigations and the fight against organised and cross-border crime. Does the representative Dahl disagree with this? From a legal security perspective, this project will also be a plus, because with larger units you will be better able to have competence in the new police methods, such as DNA. I also believe that the service can be improved by this grip by keeping the three offices that remain open longer. That means that people don't have to spend their working time for, for example, to arrange for passports or to supply a request for weapons. Follo police districts are also not of the largest size, in terms of area they are of the size of the municipality of Rana, and with three offices people will still have a closeness to the service that many of the country's inhabitants will envy them. The police also believe that with this organisation they can provide assistance more quickly if needed than with a back-up service. At least it has to be tried out before we pass a sentence on this. The last argument I want to make is the mandate given to the trial project. There are clear indications that the project will support the three main objectives of the police reform, which are more effective work on prevention and crime prevention. It shall be more public-oriented and more cost-effective. There are arguments that speak against the experiment as it is now, but it is absolutely essential that the police give priority to prevention when they are given free capacity. I hope we'll soon have measurement criteria that actually measure the police's work. I share the concerns of the Follo Council at this point. It is also worrying that the Nesodden, with 17 000 inhabitants, does not have a cop's office to deal with. This could be done, for example, by: be resolved by a police post. We'll see when the project is finally designed. The important thing is that we now start a project that can show us how to organise Norwegian police in the future, a project that we can draw knowledge out of, and that the police themselves can stand behind. We also need to have a good dialogue with the municipalities in the district to get a model for which there is mutual understanding. Finally, I would like to point out that we believe with close-up police that there should be a local police service, with an overview and good analysis of the society they are to serve. It is primarily linked to officials and women and not to offices. I would therefore like to challenge the representative Dahl to the following: what does Right really mean by near-police? Is it an office, or is it police officers and women?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e802	I will commend the interpellant for his commitment to this matter, and for having put this matter on the agenda. I find it a bit strange that the interpellant was criticized both by the Council of State and by the representative of Breen for putting this matter on the agenda. I find that very funny, because it is precisely our role as local representatives to address the concerns and challenges that the people feel. As the Council of State is aware, this matter has created a large local commitment, not only in Follo, but also in the neighbouring areas of Eastfold, and the Council of State was given many thousands of signatures in this matter in a meeting with the municipalities earlier today. That is why it should only be lacking when you have such a great public commitment that local representatives, both here on the Grand Duchy and among rapporteurs and local politicians, are not involved in such a matter. At the meeting we had earlier today, the Council of State just called for a popular commitment also in the justice sector. That's why I think it's doubtful when you're criticizing such a popular commitment. It's clear that people get worried locally when there's a risk that the janitor's office will be shut down. Everyone knows that local police are alpha and omega in the community. Anyone who has been waiting for a police patrol to arrive at an accident site, or home when it has been burglary, etc., knows that it is very long minutes. It's maybe the longest minutes we're going to experience when we wait for something. Therefore, the response time in such cases is very important. It is clear that centralisation of the janitorial offices to the extent proposed here will do something about the response time -- it's quite obvious -- and that's people's concern. And it is clear that there will have consequences for the important role that the police have in combating crime. Earlier today there was a public meeting with the press. There, too, the Council of State thanked the municipalities and the rapporteurs for their commitment to this matter. What I think is strange, is that the Council of States sort of, and also the Breen in the previous post, is playing the ball back to those who are involved in this matter. At today's meeting, the Council of State said that municipalities have to come up with alternative solutions here. Breen asked, "What will the Right do?" I think it's pretty clever. I think those who are now representing a majority government in this room have to come forward with proposals that are well thought out, and not challenge the opposition to come up with solutions. The Progress Party has long been involved in this with the local police, and in the context of the Police Mission, the Progress Party had long observations on this matter with the local police. The Progress Party concluded that we want to have a visible and decentralised police force, a solid close-up police force, because, as I also mentioned, it is the best solution for the population. We also suggested that the Government should ask for a model based on response time. This should also be done in this case. Before taking a decision, it is necessary to identify the scale of the increase in response time that this proposal will bring, and what challenges it will pose for the fight against crime in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e815	From the debate so far, I have to say that I am quite surprised at a part of the tone, the reaction pattern and the arguments used. It seems to me to be an irritation that this matter is brought in for the Storting, which I think is quite strange. Right, that's what the Minister of Justice says, that the case is not promoted. No, it may not have been promoted by the Government as a proposal for the Storting, but what we have seen over the years now is that once a proposal is first promoted by this red-green government, it is absolutely impossible to change a single comma in it, no matter how good counter-arguments you might have in debates here in the Chamber. It's part of the back of the so-called happiness that was going to hit the country and people just got us a majority government. The democratic debate is at least being moved out of the staging room and into enclosed spaces. I have also followed the media coverage, not least locally, of this matter over weeks. There, I think, the Minister of Justice has the advantage of holding a slightly different tone, and not a tone that I feel is a bit too rough and a little too much in the direction that everyone who has counter-conceptions is told that they unfortunately do not understand what the matter is. I was present at the much-discussed meeting this morning, where, fortunately, the Minister of Justice was present and was given the opportunity to meet the popular commitment of Follo and Eastfold in this matter, and where more than 20,000 signatures from these local communities were handed over. I hope this made the impression on the Minister of Justice. In any case, I registered that the Minister of Justice was on a somewhat more humble and responsive line than I have been given the impression of through various newspaper statements in the weeks that have gone before this debate, and that is good. There is considerable concern and concern in many communities about this issue, and it is important to take it seriously. I therefore hope that the Minister of Justice will listen to these arguments from a cross-political environment in a number of municipalities. I would like to mention that in the last issue of the magazine Police Forum, dated 15 February 2008, there is an interesting report on page 26 and beyond, where, among other things, it is. it reads as follows: «The first year of the Moelv police post is described as a success. After the removal of the local County Council in 2005, there was a popular demand to get the police back. Minister of Justice Storberget has listened. And turned up a million for the project." That's exactly why it's pretty easy that you don't now assume that creating a police post here and there is something seductive, seductive, and that you don't repeat the same mistake several times, because there are, as you know, quite a number of other mistakes to choose from.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e831	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government says that they will have ‘a close and strong police force with officers’ offices throughout the country’. In addition, it says: ‘The government will strengthen the leadership of the Norwegian police so that the intentions of the police reform are fulfilled.’ The plans for the reorganization of the Follo Police seem to be in conflict with the Government's promises in the Soria Moria Declaration, and will, if they are implemented, imply another breach of promise from the Government. In this case, there appears to be a contradiction between the intention and what is presented as the cause of any reorganisation. According to the police directorate’s letter of assignment, the aim of the project is to make the police district more effective in preventing and combating crime, more service-oriented and public-oriented and more cost-effective. The management board, which has drawn up the proposal for the reorganisation in the police district, appears to have had a slightly different reason and objective. Let me quote: «In the light of our challenges, the financial framework and these key governance signals, we see no other possibility of getting better than bringing together the holdings. By pooling resources on fewer units, we will be able to release personnel and resources for the areas we want to strengthen and thus be able to better solve the problems.’ This is no offensive argument for merging holdings. The argumentation is rather very defensive and justified by economic frameworks and central governance signals. The reorganisation will involve the closure of ten offices and a reduction in the police district's holdings from 13 to 3. The proposal has created great frustration, uncertainty and despair in the population of the municipalities concerned. The majority of the municipalities are strongly opposed to the reorganisation, which was made visible today by the 18 941 signatures, plus the Westbys, that the Council of State was given. Also at KS Landsting, reorganization of the police was discussed. I would like to quote from KS Landsting's statement: «Non-local community security is also an important local democratic value. The County Council of KS reports that the presence of local police and officers' offices is about to be withdrawn from the community. The county considers these to be among the main actors in local security, security and preparedness and is strongly critical of the implementation of such a conversion.» The county council is therefore strongly critical of the closure of the county offices. My question is how such reorganisation should lead to more prevention and combating crime, as well as to a more public-oriented and service-provided police service. At least I don't get this to vote, I don't get it to go up. That is why my challenge to the Minister of Justice is whether he believes that the reorganisation we can now get is in line with the Government's promises in the Soria Moria Declaration? I know this case is not yet available in the department. That is why the final result will be crucial, not how the Minister of Justice can then argue for ‘a close and strong police force with officers’ offices throughout the country’. Governments are committed to seeing contexts. We are also in the Christian People's Party. The Council of State has challenged us to look at plans, think about youth actions and also think about giving time to facilitate the work of the police. This is not what we in the Christian People's Party disagree with, but the place and services are all connected. It also does subsidiarity and security. This is important to focus on, and it is crucial from the Christian People's Party that we can find a structure that gives security to the population, with policemen in the right places.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e865	Interpellant is right that the proposal for a strong centralisation of police in Follo and Indre Østfold does not have any particularly strong local support. The closure of ten officers' offices in Follo Police District is perceived as a tough centralisation of a service to which most people and the municipalities feel it is important to maintain local ties. Follo and Inner Eastfold have growth municipalities in an Oslo-near area. This poses major challenges, and it can be argued that it poses challenges especially in terms of crime-fighting work. It also presents challenges in strengthening prevention and strengthening the local presence of the police. I have listened to the Minister of Justice's statement on the matter, and I understand that all matters have two sides. I am pleased that the Council of State stresses that the Ministry will go into this matter carefully before drawing its conclusions, if necessary, after the input that has come from the Follo Police District. Both the Council of State and other speakers have referred to the Soria Moria Declaration, where we say: ‘We want a close and strong police force with LEN’s offices all over the country. We will make the establishment more visible and effective, inter alia, by reviewing the possibility of co-location with public service offices where appropriate.’ This is what we say after giving great attention to crime prevention in a separate subchapter in the statement. I must say that I agree with those who do not experience these statements as coincident with the wishes of the Follo Police Chamber for a strong centralisation of the cannon seat. I was on the weekend at the county meeting in Akershus Senterparti. There was, of course, local police reform, which it has probably been in all county parties that have had annual meetings in the past, and it ended in an opinion in which three main arguments were put forward against the centralisation of the county offices. The annual meeting considered that the proposal weakens the availability of the local communities to be served by the police, weakens the knowledge of the local environment of the police authorities and weakens the crime prevention work at the local level. Then, of course, we also have to listen to the arguments that gathering the police in fewer offices provides savings in administrative and administrative resources, and more resources for police work. I also understand the argument that we are facing a tougher crime where, in very many serious cases, we are facing criminals who in no way have municipal boundaries and local barriers to their activity, and that also makes the police's follow-up to the cases difficult. There are good arguments to better coordinate police activity, but we already have Follo police districts as an overarching unit for Follo and Inner Eastfold. It should be possible to find solutions to this problem other than those provided for by the pilot project, a reorganisation of the Länsmannskontoret to the extent that it does. I record that the municipalities in Follo police districts quite collectively - not completely collectively - are opposed to the closure of the county offices in their municipalities. This issue is probably best addressed by the resumption of dialogue with municipalities, and by the existence of solutions that could be more mutually agreed between municipalities and police districts than the underlying ones. I am therefore also very pleased that it was precisely the council that invited the municipalities when he met the municipalities and both the akershusben and the eastern fold bench earlier today. There is room for dialogue here and for finding solutions that are not necessarily similar to those that Follo police districts have recorded so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e885	With a majority government, Stortinget has little chance of saying anything about what is being treated in the state apparatus, the government apparatus, before the decisions are taken. With regard to this matter, there has been a broad consensus in this room. It is also until someone decides otherwise for the Norwegian police: The police must be close to, among other things, To be a role model and to prevent young people from losing their foothold and becoming criminals. Police are supposed to fight organized crime. I know Follo police districts well and many other police districts in Norway. This is because I have visited quite a number of municipalities in the districts and seen that they have done a good preventive work. I also know the grip of the Follopatrulje, a patrol that is moving across this district to reach out in the public service. I also know very well that Follo police districts in their time were pioneers in the fight against organized crime, among others. a large sprinkler was rolled up across Norwegian police districts. When we dealt with the police role report in Stortinget, presented by the previous government, but dealt with under the current, there was a broad consensus on the three principles I have now outlined. In addition, during the previous period, the size took action to ensure a local police force by not adding civil justice to the basic plan to the district courts, but to the local police to have a wide-ranging contact, for example. with those who are struggling with debt and debt problems. The reason was that a police officer who knows his local population can always be the leader. So I know that, for example. in parts of Follo police district in Inner Eastfold were quite tough neo-Nazi groups in their time. It was involved in a close-up between the police security service and well anchored local police. Furthermore, I know very well how in part of the Akershus municipalities there has been a very good prevention work that has never contradicted the fact that Follo police districts have fought organized crime. Let me then get to sketch some alternatives. If you are concerned about organised crime, you can follow up on what you did in time, but you have not been followed up later, namely to give Kripos and other national units regional units to follow up the cross-border police work, so that no investigation stops at a police district border. If you're still concerned about not just leaving the sign behind, it was in its time that when I went in for civil justice on the ground plane to be added to the police, it was to prevent just the sign from remaining standing, that there was to be a ‘police’ on the door, but that there was nothing left. So when you go into these relationships, there's one factor that's not on the table, and that's reputation. Reputation cannot be measured in a business-economic calculation. It is measured in confidence. A present police force should have good enough reputation to have confidence in the near things, be role models for the young, and at the same time have so much confidence that they get information about the tough things -- the really tough things, which don't even need to be in the police district -- trust them so that people dare say from. So it's like this from my usual way of thinking that with the current police tour, one police position requires eight posts on a year-on-year basis, and then 16 police posts represent two such posts. If you want to put a police post on the Nesodden, you can start subtracting. I sincerely hope that the Council of State in this matter will do as he did in another case, namely, when there was a proposal to put down the Heggen and Frøland District Court. Then they chose to maintain the court of law, and I remember that court of law is in the Wrocław, where a man was shot down about right outside the courtroom. After joining, for example: former police officer Ulrich on the patrol I know about the mixture of crime, both the close and the heavy, in this part of the country. I see that this is the chance of the Council of State to do what he has wanted to do now, namely to have a dialogue with people locally and to make sure that meaningfully locally anchored police remain, so that you can have role pictures, and to make sure that people who are starting to roll get a chance to turn around in time. It has also, for example, on a cross-political basis, such a prevention project has been carried out in Ashim. We know that there is a willingness to operate such projects in other municipalities in Inner Eastfold etc. When I get involved in this matter, it is not to take anything in the worst sense. It is simply because before anyone draws any conclusions, helping them to become correct, to the existence of the local police, and to strengthen the fight against organised crime, among other things. through regional investigative units, and because I have previously recorded that the State Council Storberget did not listen to the thoughts that were promoted by others than him about putting down the hedge and seedland districts. I hope that the same position will also apply in this case as we approach the conclusion, and then I hope that the Council of State will take appropriate care that the Storting gets it. A Council of State has many possibilities to ensure such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e923	I want to start my speech by pointing out how important it is that the Minister of Justice has actually invited a great deal of openness and cooperation on these processes. That was perhaps also why he met with the spokesmen, with the KS and with the benches to Eastfold and Akershus in the morning today and who actually invited even more meetings to have a debate and to have a cooperation. I also thought that was very important. Then I would like to say that the inhabitants of Follo, from whom I come, and also the inhabitants of Eastfold, who belong to the Follo police district, have been very committed to this matter. I think it's very important to show understanding that people get a little worried when they hear that their L.A.'s office is going to shut down, because having a L.A.'s office symbolizes some kind of security. It is also the case that some of the county officials' offices that are proposed to be closed are actually county officials' offices that work well, and that people in the district are happy to have there. We have to be clear about that. I still think that we need to be open so that there may be other possibilities, so that we can improve the results of the overall police work. It may be that co-location with service offices, police councils or several patrol cars in the long term, when it becomes known, will provide the same level of security as a loner’s office provides. I think prevention is one of the most important things we can have in society. I am pleased that several Follo municipalities are SLT municipalities. In those municipalities, we have had very good results. Indeed, the SLT is a coordination of local crime prevention measures, where there is cooperation between municipalities, police, youth, adults and organisations. It's fun to see that this results. I think it is important to say in this debate that regardless of what kind of organisation you want, we must give priority to this work. I am pleased that the Government has actually prioritised the preventive work and the SLT highly. However, it is also important that municipalities do so, that spokespersons, local politicians, organisations - all of them - are on the path of local prevention. As I said in the introduction, this is the case in the process. The Minister of Justice has said today that he has no hurry to take a decision. He wants to listen. He wants to cooperate and accept advice. Therefore, I just want to wait for this work to be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e936	There is no irritation that these matters are coming to Stortinget, or that an interpellation on this theme is being raised. The criticise is the argument used. My question is: how will the representative Dahl himself solve the manpower challenge? The representative actually said nothing about that in his post. After listening to the article, one can actually ask the entire opposition if they have their own policies in this area at all. The public engagement in the matter is very good. I perceive both the Minister of Justice and the representative of Breen so that they are very much in favour of the popular commitment. It also shows the meetings they have had. If the test project is found to have failed, then it is open to actually a completed chapter. I'm for a good police officer, such as a police officer. also said in the police role message, but the presence and threshold of expression is actually not extraordinarily distorted by one having fewer offices. In the trial project, we will find out both the benefits and the disadvantages. Then we can weigh these up to each other. It is obvious that the representative Dahl feels a great discomfort in the hall today by the fact that this government has actually succeeded in the policy of justice, a discomfort that he shows both in body language and in words. With the risk of having the same style as the representative Dahl, I intend to raise another question in my post. The representative Dahl talks about how many more student places the previous government had increased the recording. He actually makes it sound like there was a bigger recording under the previous government than under today's government. My question is simple and correct: Does the representative Dahl acknowledge that the recording at the Police Hill has never been as high as it is today, and that the previous government was never in the vicinity of such a recording?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e947	The issue that the Storting is discussing today is an expression of the strong popular commitment that is taking place on the issue of crime prevention in general and the people's proximity to the police services in particular. It's an engagement that any Minister of Justice should be pleased about. It's an engagement that involves people caring about how police services are handled and how police services are organised. Today it is given a new and strong expression through the signatures that have been handed over and that clearly express this. That's why I was a little surprised when I heard the Minister of Justice's reply. It could seem as if the Minister of Justice does not appreciate this popular commitment, that at least he does not appreciate that the popular commitment is carried into this hall by the people's own representatives. I must say that I am surprised by a very wise and competent Minister of Justice. He should appreciate this. He should appreciate that in this room there is a cross-political expression of the popular commitment to the police structure of the region we are now discussing, the Follo region. My advice to the Minister of Justice, who has now said that he will take good time in this matter, who has said that he will listen, is that he takes on the impressions that we, as ombudsmen and women, express in this debate. But more importantly, he takes over the impressions of the many who have written under protests, because they make it based on a genuine and sincere commitment to how the police of the future are to be expressed in their region. For my part, I would also recommend that the Minister of Justice is thoroughly involved in the transport structure and the housing and industrial structure in this region, which is slightly different from what one might get the impression if you just put rulers on the map. Even I target the view of 4,500 nostrils who have signed this protest, and who are in the situation that they live in the municipality of the country that may have the highest collective share and the lowest private car share. It is a municipality whose inhabitants live well in line with the Storting climate settlement. But for that very reason, a family of children living on the Nesoddtangen will have quite major challenges if they have to go to Drüback to equip themselves with passports, which you need from time to time. The travel structure is then that you have to go to Oslo and take the bus to Drøbak, then back to Oslo and out again to the Nesoddtangen. You can't travel the way it looks on the map, because there's practically no collective coverage. It is also part of the reality that I would recommend that the Minister of Justice take into account in the assessment of this issue and in the understanding of the popular commitment that counts. I'm not going to stand here and prescribe in detail how the Minister of Justice should draw his conclusions, but I think he should both respect -- to a greater extent than his intervention expressed -- the popular commitment in this room at that time and appreciate the popular commitment that is the reason so many representatives have engaged in this matter here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e958	I am pleased that the Council of State has said that he will take the time to assess the recordings. That's very good. I hope that in his last post he can explain whether that means that one will take the initiative to launch further investigations, that one will give a signal that the basis that lies there from the project group is too thin to build a decision on, and that one will explain to the Storting before making a decision in government in such an important case in principle – because there are a lot of unresolved questions. With regard to the positions that the representative Breen had in mind, I do not know where the representative Breen got them from. It's an unexplained cost picture. There are open leases. It's undecided in relation to the crew. This is unclear in relation to how you are tied up on a working time basis. It is also undecided, for example. the number of youth researchers involved in cancelling the loss of all the local labour offices and the prevention work done there. Two youth researchers are provided for in all municipalities that lose their Länsmannskontoret. When it comes to the question of what the Right believes near-police is, it is not the Right and I who are going to define it, because we have already done so in cooperation with the current government parties in the context of the police mission. But it seems that the representative of Breen is about to slip away from it and almost gives a wholehearted support to an investigation that is so thin, and in which clearly no critical questions are asked. It should at least do so in the run-up to the Council of States. I perceive that the Council of State is more open to assess the critical objections to the investigation itself than the representative of the Workers' Party is here in Stortinget. So it was mentioned a little bit about the importance of betting on children. That is why I hope that the Council of States will also follow our proposal to set up a children's home in this very area, in the Oslo region, so that it is not just in Hamar. Otherwise, the representative Heggø was concerned with how little his own policy opposition has. Then I would recommend our alternative state budget. There's a lot of good suggestions there, so it's good homeworkers also for the representative Heggo. I record that with NOK 130 billion more to be distributed, there are actually fewer operating budgets under this government than it was under the previous one. You can also talk to local PF members about how they actually experience that reality. I guess they have some experience base to build on. So finally this matter. I hope that with the dialogue that the Council of State brings up, the proposed change will not be adopted without proper investigation. You don't have an evaluation time of less than a year. I look at the Council of State as an open and listening man who perceives for good reason that this matter has been brought into the Chamber. I also understand that the Central Party as a government party is prepared to ensure that this does not happen, and that a good dialogue is also to be held bilaterally with the Government Council, which represents the largest government party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e978	All the debate about police organisation is important -- there's no doubt about it. But I initially tried in my previous post to say that I would be so skeptical that we as central politicians shot down every change proposal now and said that it is not applicable. It would just limit the scope of action that, among other things, Local actors have, whether they are in favour of what is now proposed or against. I remember there are too many municipalities. Then it would be terribly unfair if we now, without having had a review of this matter, would shoot down such a proposal. I've tried to say today and to the municipalities I've met, that I value the popular commitment. What we have missed in judicial debate is that people are active in this field locally, where it really applies. But then we also have to give the local opportunity to make recordings, the opportunity to get in position, so that the dialogue doesn't get scaled up. Then it's almost made as if we've shifted our responsibility, and that there are others who now have to make recordings. It is, of course, an addition to the procedure we are going to have in the ministry. Local actors are also challenged to ask themselves: How will our police service in our municipality improve? It would be equally natural to ask that question as the question: is this proposed solution feasible for this municipality? So I ask that not all initiatives be taken in the worst sense. Recordings from both the opposition and local actors, I think we should allow ourselves to listen to and focus, not limit the debate to the Stortinget or, for that matter, to the Government or the Ministry. So this is one thing that we haven't gotten in yet. I look forward to the local involvement, and I'm willing to spend time on it. I think we are totally dependent on that to ensure the legitimacy of changes in Police Norway, which we are also totally dependent on. Then it's mentioned by the representative Engeset that we don't have to make the same mistake again as we did in Moelv. The representative Engeset left the hall after holding his post, but I have to be allowed to replicate: what is it? In Moelv, we built a police post because we thought it was important that the police come close to the people. If there were any errors that were made there, it had to be that the previous government shut down the Länsmannskontoret. It was the previous government that did it. The right was on it. They have to take responsibility for it. The representative Asmyhr was about the question of response time. It is not that the police believe that there will be a shorter response period if we keep all the offices. On the contrary, they have said that if we can use any resources on, among other things. More patrols, we'll have shorter response time. That's exactly why the police are proposing it. It is not as easy as keeping all the offices gives the shortest response time. It gives us challenges, but I'm very pleased with the commitment, both here and in the people, and I look forward to the debate that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e987	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1002	We have had a wide-ranging debate on the school in recent times, a debate that is still going on and involving both politicians, school people and others. And that's good, because that debate is important. It is important that we have a school with the best and most varied education and an as good a learning environment as possible, a school where the professional and pedagogical tasks throughout the education cycle are seen in context, a school that is for everyone. These are the results of the latest PISA study, the International Student Assessment Programme, which has been a major guide to the current school debate. The PISA surveys started in 2000, were followed up in 2003 and thus produced the preliminary results in 2006. The studies compare 15-year-old students in OECD countries by testing knowledge in three key disciplines: reading, mathematics and natural sciences, where one of these selected subjects is studied in depth every year. It may be known that Norway does not score very high on the PISA survey results list and that we are particularly low on comparing ourselves with other Nordic countries. There is every reason to take seriously the fact that Norwegian 15-year-olds are lower in basic education than you would expect and want. My interpellation today is therefore not an expression that I consider the findings of the PISA study to be unimportant or irrelevant. On the contrary, it is of great importance that we focus on the basic skills of Norwegian students. But I've missed a broader perspective on school assignments and school opportunities in the debate we've had so far, and I think we're going to take time to look a little bit behind the numbers from the PISA survey, so we can be absolutely sure of what the statistics are really telling us. To contribute to that, in today's interpellation I will report some issues that go along two main lines. One is about what is the school's most important overall learning goal based on what is laid down in curricula for the different stages. The other has to do with what kind of methods can be useful to achieve the defined learning objectives. The promise of knowledge maintains a broad knowledge perspective, covering the entire course of education, from primary to secondary and adult education. A general objective is for all students in Norwegian school to develop basic skills and competences. The school shall also provide all students with the opportunity to develop their skills and talents individually and in cooperation with others, to contribute to stimulating pupils’ learning, endurance and curiosity and to strengthening the ethical, social and cultural competences of the individual. In my view, to achieve this, the school needs to have a broader focus than the PISA study and, to this extent, the national tests add up. I don't think there are any smart solutions that can help us extract the potential for improvement that exists in school, but I'm convinced that the breadth of the professional portfolio and the focus on the creative human being must be central. In February 2007, the National Centre for Art and Culture was opened in Bodø by the then Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal. In its opening speech, the Council of State stressed the need to facilitate the development of artistic, cultural, aesthetic and creative competences for pupils. This is important from a number of points of view: Cultural subjects must have a place in school by virtue of their self-esteem, while at the same time we must open up to see how aesthetics can provide methods of creative learning across the entire professional portfolio - methods that we do not exploit in full today. Music, dance, drama, literature and crafts have some common basic features, which means that they help students to rehearse their ability to understand logical structures, manage quantitative and qualitative sizes, and train their ability to reflect and critical thinking. In 2006, the book based on the UNESCO report ‘The Wow Factor’ came from a comprehensive study by Professor Anne Bamford. The report is based on a global research project, which addresses the importance of the arts for children and young people through both quantitative methods and qualitative case studies. ‘The Wow Factor’ focuses both on training in the arts and on training through art. Professor Bamford's approach shows how both perspectives provide important arguments for emphasising the arts in teaching. The report concludes that educational methods using creative and artistic instruments in many disciplines improve overall performance and promote a positive school environment. However, Anne Bamford emphasises that good results depend on a high level of professional education. If the professional content of cultural subjects is too poor, it is negatively affected by anxiety and dissatisfaction affecting school hours. Professor Anne Bamford suggests the relationship between ‘methods through arts’ and a good learning environment, by linking his research to the results of the PISA study. And she's found that there's a clear link between high scores in basic subjects on the PISA tests and the same countries' efforts in teaching in and through aesthetic subjects. In fact, if we look at one of the countries that get the best out of the PISA exams, Finland, Finns in their curricula include methods from aesthetic subjects in almost 80 pst. of the teaching. Finland is also characterised by a strong commitment to skilled teachers, based on a professional and educationally good education. We are wise to note the findings of Anne Bamford in his report to UNESCO. One of the most important things we can do is to see the teacher as the principal resource of the school. I would also like to stress that there is a lot of good teaching work in Norwegian school, by dedicated and good teachers. Therefore, good education and training for teachers is a key to a better school. We need professionally qualified, safe and clear teachers who are able to raise the broad concept of knowledge that is included in the Knowledge promise. And we need a school that consistently defends the creative person. It is a fact that in recent years different curricula for Norwegian schools have all underlined the importance of the arts and cultural subjects. Despite this, the relative hours in such subjects have been steadily reduced since the mid 1970s. This has implications for the training of teachers in the arts, and therefore also for the ability of the school to recruit good teachers for the subjects. It also makes us perhaps not fully capable of developing and implementing what Anne Bamford calls ‘methods through arts’. In a globalized and unpredictable world, which increasingly requires us to cope with change, that we dare to meet the new and unknown, it is vital that the school can provide children and young people with the various tools they need to meet the many challenges of life. Then we have to be sure that we have made sure to meet all the learning objectives that are actually laid down in the school's broad defined mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1030	The government takes both the aesthetic dimension and the aesthetics of the training seriously. In order to ensure that the new curriculum reflects a broad spectrum of knowledge and the basic skills today’s young people need, the Government also decided to introduce a new part of the curriculum ‘Principle of Training’. In this it will be, among other things: stress that cultural competences are important for participation in a society composed of many cultures and that students will meet art and cultural forms that stimulate their creativity and innovative abilities. The general part of the curriculum, passed on from L97, places great emphasis on cultural competence, and the chapter in question is entitled ‘Creative Man’. As part of the general effort devoted to art and culture in the training, the National Centre for Art and Culture in the training set up in January 2007, as the representative said. The new centre was added to the College of Bodø. The Centre shall include, inter alia: helping to strengthen the artistic and cultural skills of both elephants and teachers. In parallel with the creation of the National Centre in Bodø, a strategy plan for art and culture was developed in the training. ‘Creating learning’ — the strategy plan for art and culture in training — has five fields of action and a total of 27 actions. The plan shall help to integrate and develop the place within which art and culture are to take place, so that children and elephants receive valuable ballast for further education and participation in society. Kindergartens and cultural spheres are an important part of this strategy plan. The government is busy seeing our education system in good health, where kindergartens and cultural schools are also important venues for the implementation of cultural and knowledge dissemination in the training. The government is busy with "early effort" in a number of areas, including those that stimulate imagination, creation and life. In the framework plan for content and tasks in kindergarten, art, culture and creativity are referred to as an own subject area. Working with the arts, culture and creativity of kindergartens shall include: help children to see and express themselves through versatile meetings with and reflection on culture, art and aesthetics. The children will be able to make use of imagination, creative thinking and creative pleasures. A three-year research project has been launched at the University of Westfold to investigate how children learn from and through the language. One of the subprojects will focus on learning through conversations about art and artistic expressions. With the introduction of the Knowledgelift, a common curriculum for both the basic and further education will be created for the first time in Norway. It is stressed that there should be a holistic learning process from the 1st year through the 13th year through the subject and across the subject. Everything belongs to basic training. The goals of the creative activity of the students are specifically taken care of in the aesthetic disciplines of art and crafts and music in the base ball. A common denominator of aesthetic subjects is experience, creative abilities and creative work. The competence measurements in these subjects will generate a lot of student activity and a lot of commitment, which further leads to learning. In continuing training, there is a developed dedicated programme area that provides a room for professional deepening in the field of aesthetics and at the same time leads to general study competence or professional competence. Elevar can choose between design, music, dance and drama, design and crafts, or medium and communication areas. In addition to these technical services in the field of ‘pure’ aesthetics, there are different fields of application, such as language and culture in antiquity, communication and culture, and media and information literacy. In this context, other humanities should also be mentioned. Among the subjects covered throughout, the Norwegian field should be developed separately, because much of the subject contains elements of art and culture. The Norwegian language is therefore characterized by many characters as an aesthetic subject. In addition to the bet areas I have just mentioned, I would like to mention the cultural spheres and the cultural school system in particular. These are key arenas and actions supporting art and culture in initial training. I refer to St.meld. No 8, Cultural school bag for the future, which was put forward in the fall, and which is to be dealt with in the Storting in this spring session. In pre-school education, aesthetic subjects are subject to drama, music and formalisation. In general teacher training, aesthetic subjects are not mandatory. However, there are a variety of vocational training courses that deepen aesthetics. We have a four-year vocational training in practical and aesthetic subjects, we have a three-year vocational training in music, dance and drama, and we have a three-year vocational training in design, art and crafts. In the context of the discussion on the role of teachers and the training of teachers in the future, the place of practical and aesthetic subjects, but also of aesthetic and cultural competence, is of course important. Following the 2006 UNESCO report entitled ‘The Wow Factor’, which the representative Knutsen himself mentions, the arts and culture disciplines in the training provide better attitudes among students to the school and the learning environment, better understanding of cultural identity, a stronger sense of personal pleasure in the training environment, and increased well-being at school. It's worth noting that those results were only visible where there was good education in the subjects, that is. where qualified professionals, in cooperation with other social groups and institutions, took care of the teaching in a good and well-functioning manner. Bad teaching in aesthetic subjects, on the other hand, had a direct negative effect on the learning potential of the students, by building down stanchions, identity skills, well-being and the experience of maestering in the school. It is also very important to take part in the further discussion of aesthetic subjects and their properties within the school. Action 25 of the ‘Creating learning’ strategy plan, etc. is, as I see it, an answer to any of the questions asked by the representative. The action has the following wording: ‘Initiate the establishment of a new national and international evaluation programme for the arts and culture of kindergarten and training.’ This spring, the Ministry of Knowledge will start work on such an evaluation programme. Finally, I would like to repeat that the perspectives that the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen takes up and asks for are largely taken care of in today's school. But it is also important to be able to show it in the debate, and to keep it up, while strengthening many other important aspects of the school that we have seen need to strengthen in the debate we have had in the last few months. That is what we want to emphasise, not least in connection with the further introduction of the Knowledge Lift. But also in the context of the evaluation of this reform and in the work on new teacher training, we will look at the place that aesthetics have for learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1077	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that, like me, he underlines that the promise of knowledge makes good efforts in the field of art and culture, and that there is a lot of good work in this field in all parts of the school today. I was among those who stood on the chair and cheered when the National Center for Art and Culture in the training was established in Bodø in January last year. I think it is of great importance that we have got such a centre, and that the Ministry of Knowledge has also developed a strategy plan to achieve important objectives for this field. It is also great to hear that the Council of State reports on good research projects for art and culture at school, and not least what he calls ‘early effort’, that is. seeking to implement this kind of perspective in education for the smallest. When the family and culture committee a few weeks ago was in the United States, we met a kindergarten that held in the famous Smithsonian Museum in Washington, a kindergarten that consistently and with well-trained staff all the time worked on art, culture and creativity. Much good cultural work is also done here in the country, especially in many cultural kindergartens and in other kindergartens as well, and it is great if art and culture can become a natural part of the everyday life of all kindergarten children. But I'm of the opinion that if we're really going to succeed in investing in art and culture in education, we have at least two main challenges: one is linked to teacher training, the other to the rhetoric we hold in the debate. It is not satisfactory that general teacher training is not compulsory in aesthetic subjects. We never get respect, interest or good professionalism into teaching unless this is changed. A 2006 survey also shows that more than 50 pst. This is why I am pleased that the Council of State emphasises that this will be a theme in the work on new teacher training. So I'm concerned that we get to put the questions really on the school policy agenda. In the period that has passed since the results of the PISA survey became known, the actors in the debate have very much pursued each other with proposals for school policy measures that have not just painted an image with several colors or broad brush. I've been worried from time to time that we're in danger of being both narrow-tracked and single-eyed when we're looking to find the good roads to a better school. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State today says that we must work to clarify the place of art and cultural subjects in the school, and also stress the importance of the same subjects throughout the education process.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1090	Let me again underline just what the representative says, that the subjects we are talking about here are important in themselves because they are knowledge. For example, cultural industries in Norway have more employment than primary industries have combined. The knowledge a developer through the course is important for higher education and thus for the level we have there. But there are also subjects that, of course, convey general competence and skills, values and ideas that can be useful to us as human beings in the learning of other subjects and in the development of attitudes and values. Then I would say that we have many competent and competent teachers in all disciplines today, but we also have great challenges, of course, in that the competence of most subjects should be even better. I would say that I have gone through this quite thoroughly, and I see that the competence of the aesthetic subjects is not particularly bad if one measures it as the formal competence. Among other things, there is quite a large proportion of those who teach music, who, compared with other subjects, have at least 60 credits of further education in the field. There are only a few other disciplines at the same level as music. So teachers in both music and art and crafts come from a medium to a little above average when it comes to formal competence in addition to teacher education. At least it's a signal that we have a lot of formal competence, and I also know that we have a lot of really competent, competent teachers in those subjects at school. Then there will be an important discussion in connection with teacher education, but there I would say that we can't put a similarity sign between that something is mandatory in general teacher education and that something is important, because in that case there would be quite a number of things that weren't important. My clear view is that many subjects that are not currently compulsory in general school education are very important anyway. What's a challenge is that a lot of people get a good enough depth in the subject, so that we have competent teachers within all the subjects in the school. Then we have to discuss not only practical-esthetic subjects, but all subjects, about what should be mandatory, and what should not be mandatory, in future general teacher training. There is an important discussion, where I have not concluded for myself at all, and where I look forward to both the point of view and further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1099	The interpellant raises a very relevant question when she asks if we do not lose anything significantly at the Norwegian school of vision when we focus unilaterally on the poor results in Norwegian and math in the international tests PISA and PIRLS and the results of the national tests that show the same alarming result. I think we can easily lose our overall vision when we focus unilaterally on such results, but at the same time we will have to follow up when such studies show that we are inferior to the basic skills in the basic subjects Norwegian and math, than we should. The importance of the aesthetic subjects in the school is great, both as an independent subject and as a teaching method in other subjects. Raising children is a major educational project in which the school plays a significant role in home affairs. The aesthetic subjects contribute to the highest degree in that process. I want to use examples from my own municipality of residence where just theatre or drama is actively used as a way of understanding issues in today's society and for children to acquire knowledge about the past of just strengthening identity and belonging. Drama is used in school to understand current themes such as: pollution and climate policy and to understand how local communities and democracy function, so that children know how they can influence in situations where they believe that things should have been handled differently than they are, for example. in the current climate debate, which is also going locally. I've seen and been impressed by how through drama, music and imagery youth can reflect on and understand drug use, and what it brings with it pain for everyone involved. I have also witnessed that theater youth and robbers together have set up an open-air robbery at a closed gas station. With good help from a professional composer and director, the opera contributed to a major change in the perception of very many young and older people by the city robbers. I have also seen that the cultural school, together with students at the music study at a university, has contributed to children who were not students at the cultural school having used drama and music to get the feeling of mastering and had great joy through a project in the municipality called ‘Spæll i lag’. I think it was a good contribution to creating a better learning environment at the schools. Stiklestad National Cultural Centres, which both the interpellant and I know well, use theaters to make children interested in and familiar with both the legacy of Olav the holy and the closer story. Each year the «Children's Game Day» is arranged where the battle of Stiklestad is dramatized. All summer, children participate in the hiking theater at the People's Museum. It tells of issues that were topical 100 years ago, and one also shows how people lived at that time. Several museums do the same. At all, aesthetic subjects are important for the children, both in everyday school life and in leisure time. They contribute both as self-employed subjects, as a pedagogical method and as a subject that increases well-being and promotes a good learning environment. That's why we need to focus on these as well. That doesn't mean that we should downgrade the follow-up of the important basic subjects in school. Can't read, write and calculate when one goes out of primary school, it's difficult years waiting for a youth--years where maybe the aesthetic subjects don't give any pleasure either. However, the difficulty in such a situation as the one we have had in the last school debate is that we lose sight of the whole school. It is therefore important that we have a debate like the one we have today. To illustrate how bad things can go, I would like to refer to last week's debate on the school offer that took place in the Nord-Trøndelag county. The representative of the Left called the aesthetic subjects of the Hobby School. He received strong feedback from the entire county council, including a young representative from the Progress Party, who gave Left's representative the smooth layer and said the representative was more culturally hostile than the Progress Party has ever been. I hope the representative of Dørum has a different view than his party colleague in the Nord-Trøndelag. The Church, Education and Research Committee has just been involved in the concept of education at school. I guess we can say that the aesthetic subjects are very central in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1122	First a visit to the previous speaker: it doesn't take much to be more culturally hostile than the Progress Party, because the Progress Party has never been a culturally hostile party - rather the other way around. We want to stimulate voluntary cultural activity at all levels and levels. The professional performance of Norwegian students is weakened. Not only does the PISA study document this, but several international and national studies show that our students are getting worse in the basic subjects. There's a dramatic situation for Norwegian school when by 20 pst. of the students leaving initial training are functional illiterates, i.e. that they write and read so poorly that they do not have the ability to read a newspaper and bring the content with them in the normal way. For this reason, there is also cross-political agreement on a number of measures aimed at correcting the weaknesses of Norwegian training, particularly in the basic subjects. Even the Prime Minister has been very clear on this. In the interpellant, interpellant writes, among other things, that it is important to stimulate the ability of students to reflect and to think critically. The Progress Party agrees, but of course this applies within all disciplines. What a person really wants with it is, after all, a more general education perspective also in initial training. After a committee trip to Rome, this representative has also gained a sense of the overall education perspective in education, but it can also be done in ways other than by stimulating aesthetic subjects. The interpellant focuses very strongly on the aesthetic subjects. And what is that? Well, these are subjects that are referred to as creative subjects - such as visual arts and different design subjects - but they can also include, for example, dance, theatre, music and fictional arts and the like, n.e.c. The UNESCO report to which the interpellant refers strikes, among other things: insist that ‘bad cultural education has a direct negative impact on children’s creativity and self-confidence’. But isn't that so in every subject? If you have poor training and education in a subject, it also goes beyond the motivation of the students to provide in the subject. There I think the Council of State has a good point, precisely that what we depend on in all disciplines, are motivated and competent teachers -- professional, educational and social. The Progress Party believes it is important to focus on the main and main challenges in Norwegian school. So far, it looks like those challenges are just getting bigger. The main challenges are, among other things: the professional competence of pupils is impaired, the lack of basic skills of pupils and the need for teachers to have skills. We have major recruitment challenges in the school system, we have major challenges in general teacher training - there are a number of challenges that this hall has spent a lot of time on, and still will spend a lot of time on. In this case, concrete objectives, concrete follow-up and knowledge focus are important, especially in the basic subjects. Therefore, the Progress Party will give priority to focusing on the main challenges first. That's what's most important for the students who are in school today, that's what's most important for the students who are in school tomorrow and in the years that come. We can't solve everything, but we have to focus on solving the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1135	Today's theme is important. Quality and learning in school are important. Of course, aesthetic subjects can play a role. The announcement of the ‘Not Just to Lyst’ in 2003, which referred to the importance of art and culture in and in relation to primary school, underlines the focus of the previous government. The cultural school system was considerably expanded and further developed. The raising of knowledge provides a broad knowledge perspective and underlines the importance of looking at narrow trade boundaries, which many have been involved in. So art and culture are important in themselves, but can also be important as an entrance to other subjects. Thus, art and culture have positive effects both on well-being, learning and the quality of human life, on tangible and intangible value creation in a society and on our capacity for innovation and entrepreneurship. The art and culture at school and in connection with the school take many forms in Norway - as their own subject, across subjects, as pure cultural and art activities in the school or through contact with professional cultural life. Overall, this activity and this work are of very high quality in Norway. I think it might be a little under-communicated in the debate. It is also important to remember that there is a lot of good work going on locally in schools. The old town school in Oslo has invested a lot in culture in teaching. Here's 75 pst. by students of a native language other than Norwegian, and the Vice-Chancellor stresses that aesthetic subjects can contribute to the development of self-confidence and the safety of students who pass on to the more traditional subjects. But the Vice-Chancellor stresses that this needs to be done in a thoughtful way, as the UNESCO report also underlines. As the Council of State said, poor education in the cultural field can have a direct negative impact on the creativity and self-confidence of children. The school’s old town shows that systematic efforts and a broad knowledge view deliver results: Even with the major linguistic challenges the school has, the school has achieved very good results in recent national tests. The primary task of the school is to disseminate knowledge. It must provide each individual with a knowledge base to address the challenges that the future will present. Norwegian school has a lot of good sides. The students become self-conscious, have a high level of self-confidence and are creative, but at the bottom the basic skills must lie. There must be the main focus in Norwegian school. We can't live with a situation where too many students fall outside when it comes to basic skills like reading, writing and billing. I am quite surprised that the Council of State did not stress this much more in its reply. After PISA, TIMMS and PIRLS have again presented results to the school that we cannot be familiar with, the school debate has got a new perspective. Quality has to be driven forward, demands have to be made, and we have to measure whether the results are as expected. The teacher, as the interpellant was also in, is absolutely central, but there must be room for the teacher to succeed in the role of knowledge-mediator. Teacher training, competence and quality of education are central. There we know that we have great challenges. Furthermore, the local school owner needs to be concerned with quality at school. Quality in school must be the main political motivation behind school debates locally. If municipalities and county councils are concerned about quality, they will set clear goals for the school, they will set clear demands for school leaders, and they will find the tools to achieve the objectives. This needs to be adapted locally. Everyone wants a good school, but few discuss how to achieve it. Norway uses more resources than any other country at school. The focus must be on how we can get more quality out of this effort. It's a whole chain -- from government to active, local school ownership, good school management and good class management -- that has to work because quality in school comes into focus, and I'm a little surprised that it's not more central in the debate. The main problem in Norwegian school is not that we have had too little focus on aesthetic subjects; the main problem is that we have had too little focus on the importance of knowledge and learning outcomes in school. Right is proud to have helped turn the focus in the right direction. Even SV has now begun to talk about the importance of basic knowledge. Students shall be developed as independent and creative people through the strenuous work of acquiring knowledge and skills. To improve the basic skills of Norwegian students is the main challenge in Norwegian school, and the interpellant has an important point in that different learning strategies can be useful in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1156	I want to commend the interpellant for focusing on the creative subjects' place in school at a time when the debate in the media has to a great extent concentrated on basic skills and quality in Norwegian and mathematics, just looking at the Norwegian and mathematics subjects themselves. I don't think there's any schooling that lives in a vacuum. I believe that learning is done in all disciplines. That is why the angle of interpellant is very exciting - the influence of creative subjects on learning also in other subjects, while the subjects have a very important self-esteem as art and culture bearers. I want to take the opportunity to tell you about an experience from my own practice as a primary school teacher. My student Oda wasn't particularly concerned with mathematics, but she worked pretty intensely in the math class to understand the relationship between circumference and radius in the circle. Oda was, as girls most, busy doing his schoolwork thoroughly. But this thing about the circle wasn't easy. She had asked me several times in an hour what to actually use this for. My answers were obviously not good enough, so her frustration level was a little high when the hour was over. In the last two hours, we had art and crafts. The task was to sew the swing drive to the spring's Beatles setup. Oda went in for the work at deep concentration. Suddenly it came from her, at the back of the classroom: Miss, this is math. This is the circle and the length of the skirt is the radius. By means of radius and pi, Oda was able to calculate both the life span and the length of the skirt. I can assure you that both the student and the teacher were happy when the school day was over. Both of them had learned something material. This is a small, maybe naïve event from the classroom, but it illustrates an important moment, namely that theory along with practice gives the best result. It's in the break between theory and practice that good learning happens. It is by projecting theoretical knowledge into practice that students gain an extended and basic understanding of the knowledge that has benefited them. And it's very often just through the creative subjects that theory becomes concrete. Drawing a contrast between creativity and knowledge is meaningless. History should have taught us this. For which of us can distinguish between the architect and artist Michelangelo? The St. Peter's Church in Rome is precisely the symbol of interdisciplinaryism and the closeness of mathematics and aesthetics. Who doesn't know Leonardo da Vinci as a flight designer? Would he have been described in 2008 as an artist or an engineer? In 2008, it is engineering to build bridges that meet the technical challenges of weather and wind tolerances, while having an aesthetic dimension in the landscape. Once again, good mathematical and aesthetic knowledge is a prerequisite. I want to highlight the cultural school bag as an inexhaustible source of art and culture experiences at school. The aim of the cultural school system is to help students in primary school receive a professional offer of art and culture. Students shall have a positive relationship with artistic and cultural expressions of all kinds, and the cultural school bag shall also contribute to the development of a holistic integration of artistic and cultural expressions into the achievement of the school's learning objectives. The fact that the cultural school bag is so clearly linked to the school's learning goals is a strength. In the Nordic countries, the model is given to each municipality and school a high degree of local autonomy to support this. Architects, artists, authors and craftsmen are collected, all working towards common goals and working towards the achievement of the school's overall learning objectives. It's exposure to high temperature. It is gratifying that attempts are now being made to integrate the cultural school bag into high school. The next goal should, of course, be to include kindergartens. SV has always had the starting point that man is complete. You learn best by using all the senses. It is by interdisciplinary means that the goal of learning to understand logical structures, managing qualitative and quantitative quantities and rehearsing the ability of reflection and critical thinking is achieved. It is therefore gratifying that the red-green government is so clearly signaling that it takes the aesthetic subjects seriously. I would like to highlight the ‘Creating Learning Strategy for Arts and Culture in Education’ and the establishment of the National Centre for Art and Culture in the training of the College of Bodø as a particularly important intervention in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1179	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for including a very important theme in the current school debate. With the important and necessary focus that has been on knowledge in school, in math, in Norwegian and in English, it is often easy to forget about the other subjects, which are at least equally important. PISA, PIRLS and TIMMS studies and the results of our own national tests have led the Government to instinctively increase the number of hours in the fields of math, Norwegian and English. Other subjects, such as music and crafts, lose attention because they are supposedly not about quality in school. PISA has shown that we score low in a number of skills compared to other countries. It's an indicator of the education target, but it doesn't necessarily tell everything about the quality of school. Human utility is often demonstrated by economic, medical or social contributions. But the recognition of a student's human dignity means that the value and education tasks are also important for the school. Therefore, learning must be based on an integrated learning approach that integrates education, knowledge and mastering. I think it's important to ask ourselves if really everything that counts can be counted. A school can have many students with good grades, who score high, and yet have a lot of bullying and dissatisfaction. Is such a school an example of a school of good qualities? We can put in place all the world's measures to improve students' grades, but is it not also important to character? With the need we have for craftsmen in the years to come, we wonder why we can't create a school that creates winners instead of losers of practically strong students. Practical-esthetic subjects are important to achieve this, but also practical theory. I recorded that the council talked a lot about what they wanted to do both in kindergarten and in early school. I meet many people who look with concern at high school level and the lack of opportunity that exists today to create winners of practically strong students at that very stage. The school aims to provide children and young people with general education, personal development, knowledge and skills. This is why the school as an institution also has a central role as a cultural and valuer. The students need knowledge of language, math and physics. It's important, but they also need a cultural competence - a spiritual ballast and a life's capital. A growth in which the meeting with art and culture merges as a natural part of the vibrant daily life, I think will help to expand the young people's ability to contact reality and to better meet the many challenges they face in life. But nothing comes of itself. Art and culture also have their codes that you have to get to know. They say the North is born with skis on their legs. Of course that's not true. But what's true is that most people in Norway have a relationship with skiing or football. This was developed through experience, through play, games and learning from our childhood. Gradually we were introduced into a code system of rules, historical facts about winners and records, knowledge of practitioners, etc. This provided the basis for us later in life to enjoy sports experiences as well. So is our relationship to art and culture. We need to get to know the codes. We need to experience music and art and, for that matter, crafts at close range over time - and learn more about them. The school's main task is to enable children and young people to meet the future in the best possible way by giving them identity. Then it's essential that we be able to give the students a complete competence. We cannot reduce the debate on quality in school to become either a debate or a debate, where emphasis on the element of education becomes a cosy school, and emphasis on the element of education becomes a doggy school. No, the school has to be both- and. It must form as well as train - for the benefit of people. If we get to that, we can really start talking about that we've achieved quality in school, and that we're creating masters -- of both the practical strong and the theoretically strong students.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1200	The debate that is going on today is important - perhaps more important than we think at first. So thank the representative Knutsen who has brought up this topic. Much attention has been paid to the results of the PISA study last autumn. It's not so nice if there's been any concern about the results. We're at a lower level than we'd wanted in the basics. We should get better at that, but we should not forget that there are a lot of elements that are not measured in this type of test. Some of them can be linked to the current theme. As the Council of State, Solhjell said in his contribution, the Government has taken both the aesthetic dimension and the aesthetic disciplines of the training in earnest. In order to ensure that the new curriculum reflects a broad concept of knowledge and the basic skills of today’s young people, this government decided to introduce a new part called ‘Prince of Education’. In this there will be, among other things, stress that cultural competence is important for participation in a society in which many cultures are represented. Students will meet art and cultural forms that stimulate creativity and innovative skills. One might say that this helps to develop the concept of formation. It has been mentioned in the debate that in 2007 a national centre for art and culture was established in Bodø. The center has multiple functions. It shall contribute to strengthening the artistic and cultural competence of both teachers and students. At the same time, a strategy plan has been developed: Creative learning. It has five areas of activity. It'll be a little bit of a list of all five, but I'll mention them that far. The first is to develop and strengthen artistic competence and cultural provision in the training of both kindergarten and primary education. The second is to strengthen communication skills in the arts and culture field of training. The third is to develop varied forms of teaching and good educational tools. The fourth is to stimulate and document artistic and cultural training and education. The fifth is to make the central parts of the country's cultural heritage and cultural expression of the multicultural society available to us all. It can't be that much to postpone at these points. Now it is said from many teams that the school reforms have led to the school becoming too theoretical. From childhood to higher education, there is not enough emphasis on elements that ensure the development of the creative human being. That's why I think such bet points as this can have great value. Dissemination competence shall be strengthened, it shall be stated in one of the points. That's probably good. A central person in the Husflijslagen who is also a teacher has expressed it this way to me: ‘Breed of aesthetic subjects is almost absent in education. The cultural spheres take care of a part. The vast majority of kids like to create something, do something with their hands that actually challenges aesthetic development. They will no longer be given specific challenges to practical creativity.’ I think this is something that also needs to be heard in the big message about teacher training and the role of teacher. It has been mentioned in the debate that the Government is concerned with early action in a number of areas. We learned a lot about it from St.meld. No 16th@item: It's important that we not only think about basics, but also focus on those fields that stimulate life-stricken, creative, and mobility. In the journal School Manager No. 2 for 2008, teacher and brain researcher Britt-Louise Theglander writes an article entitled ‘Awake receiver important’. I will not refer the whole article, but at least the title cannot be difficult to agree with. One of her points is that we can't keep the alertness on top for very long. This applies to both adults and students. Research shows that we have about 10-15 minutes of full alertness in the cerebral cortex. Then it's necessary to interrupt, preferably with movement. This may also be useful knowledge to bring with it in terms of the practical-esthetic subjects. It actually gives them an extra extra dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1225	I see that the interpellant has travelled as a topic, and the government has responded to it, is a question of the place of generalisation in Norwegian education. I agree with all the speakers, including the Council of State, who have said that the cultural and aesthetic perspective does not belong exclusively in aesthetic subjects, but also belongs in other subjects. It's like in the education ballad I brought with me in life, I got a ballast, for example. through the Norwegian subject, which went far beyond learning to read and write. There is no doubt that the contact I got with living literature meant a lot. That's how we can talk about other subjects as well. As for the formational journey that the representative Anundsen enthusiastically portrayed from the pulpit - after which I made what can be called silent applause from the hall, which expanded by the fixing of arms, no other sound, just the fiction, which could be observed - it is quite right to enter into a subject like history and take the roots and look at how people have thought, experienced and organized society over time, bear this in themselves the cultural and general perspective. It is also such that the ability of teachers to cope with this could, and convey, it is absolutely crucial. Here it is the case that a practical step that can be taken at any time if it is willing to do so is, of course, to decide to amend the regulation of the training law and to say that, in order to teach in a profession, one must have competence in the profession, not only to be employed. It will in itself require some practical transitions in our country, for many people lack ballast. But this will also lead to systematic extra ballasting. So the representative's perspective on general education based on aesthetic subjects, but by me and others, among other things. The Council of State, also extended to other subjects, is an important perspective. So it's like this general perspective isn't the opposite of doing good and sparkly good in PISA studies. It's a big point, you're not intelligent at a very high level, and you're almost going to be stupid at a high level. It must be that sparkles it out of you, you also have the curiosity to be able to read, write, calculate, prepare for yourself verbally, speak English and keep up with ICT. So there's no contradiction in that. It's connected. I think these aesthetic subjects have a self-esteem even throughout the school cycle in order to capture other aspects of human life than those caught up in the purely theoretical subjects. There's no doubt that it's important. But then it has to be the way it was at the school I visited today, that you have a sparkling well-schooled music teacher, and not just one who's going to do music. It must be that to the teachers who are doing this, we have the same expectations and demands as we do in terms of skills related to Norwegian, mathematics, etc. Before we start doing anything about Norwegian teacher training - it will take time anyway - we need to ensure that through systematic further training we give joy and competence to those who are there today. Finally, something about the cultural school bag. Doing so in the worst way becomes this action where there are some artists falling into a school, and then you try to organize yourself in the hope that it will be good. Made in a sparkling way, e.g. As happens in Akershus, this develops in a lively dialogue between the cultural workers involved, and the schools involved, so that without people being broken or without question of time, this unites as part of the educational system you have. I would encourage the Council of State, especially in the cultural school system, to look at how it can be effective. It's a separate thing about it, and we now have it in primary school. It's very important that we learn from the best examples, where it doesn't become the artists and the school separately, and then a little bit of a selective meeting to figure it out, but that there's a lively dialogue between cultural workers who can deliver something, and thus are part of a trade. I have even some shiny experiences from my own school 50 years back in time, which suggests that it was fully possible to do so in the Norway of the time. It must also be possible today. Then I was so lucky that we had a teacher at school who was a children's book writer. He was portrayed in Wikipedia as a medium-sized children's book writer. But he was a sparkly good teller, so a friend of mine is going to supplement Wikipedia, because then you can supplement that story so that people who didn't get the experiences with them can at least be reminded by others that it was like that. I believe that the interpellant has raised a very important debate. Education, aesthetics, good teachers in this and the cultural school bag are not at odds with PISA. Formed people were in their time able to build Pantheon, were able to build what we have seen in Rome and Florence, and there should of course be no less ambitions in our time. Reading, writing and math don't conflict with having a little bit of mental strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1240	Creativity creates people and makes it impossible. First, I want to do a short visit to the youth house Tvibit in Tromsø, which is a cultural home for young people. They have a philosophy that is important and necessary in the Norwegian school. I feel that a lot of the philosophy they have is more or less systematized or formulated into the Norwegian school. The philosophy is divided into five points and is as follows: dare to make the impossible possible! Don't be afraid to fail! dare to make a difference and change the world!Never forget where you come from! Remember to see and encourage others! You can read the following on the youth home website: "We're going to be a creative house: we're going to be open to what we haven't tried before, we're going to do things in ever new ways, we're going to be curious, research and play. We're going to live by the principle: everything is possible - until the opposite is proven. We're going to share and be open to others. We do not live by competition, but have the advantages of our principles, ideas and projects spreading and gaining understanding from others." I believe that these principles are important in the Norwegian school as well. This is a philosophy that contributes to creating only winners and not losers. The creative subjects at school are important, and it is important to include creativity in all subjects. The school today is capable in a lot of areas. The debate earlier this winter has been very much about the PISA and PIRLS surveys, where Norway does not score the top in terms of reading or numerical understanding. It is necessary that the students are good at reading and getting good at numbers. It is important when we see that the results are not good enough to take action. It has been done in a good way by the Council of State, and the Council of State is following this up also in the main message that will soon be about quality in initial training. The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen today has a very important interpellation. I am very pleased that the Council of State and the Government have followed up this with art and culture in the training, not least through the strategy plan for art and culture in the training and through the establishment of the National Centre for Art and Culture at the University of Bodø, which has been mentioned in the debate. It is also important that this plan strengthens the role of the cultural school in municipalities as a local competence centre. When you look at what kind of societies are developing, and what kind of societies are growing, we see that these are the creative societies. It's the creative cities that are creative, that are learning. I am very pleased that this government has also started entrepreneurship as a programme subject in higher education. It's important to have a sense of numbers and to be able to read and write. But being able to think for yourself, being creative, is basically important for mastering life. In order to meet life and the future that is constantly changing, this with creative subjects is incredibly important. I also want to bet on school library for a very short time. This government will very quickly come up with a school library development program. This is important. It is important to bet on good libraries with competent people, with books and with guidance. This is important to create a good school. As both the interpellant and many others have experienced, in 2004, UNESCO carried out a major international study, headed by Professor Anne Bamford, on the effects of art and culture education on the whole of basic education, on the community and on the social and personal development of pupils. This survey emphatically states that this has great positive effects on children and young people in school, and in today's school there are fortunately many teachers with solid and good art skills. These contribute to increased confidence, less absence and much better reading and writing skills among children and young people through their teaching in music and other aesthetic subjects. But unfortunately, many people who teach aesthetic subjects do not have the skills to do this. I am very pleased that the Council of State has signaled that the teacher training plan will look at this. For in today's general teacher training, no aesthetic subject is mandatory, as the previous government did. I'm glad the Council of State will see if you shouldn't take this in and give all our teachers a better artistic competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1294	It has been exciting to follow this debate, and I am very happy that many would attend. But then it's also that school issues engage, and debate both helps to show what we're together about now, and what's the difference between the different parties. When I have addressed today's interpellation the question of the place of cultural subjects in school, it is both with a focus on the self-value of these subjects as maritime subjects and in view of how methods derived from the arts have been shown to improve the general learning environment. The breadth and variation of education are in themselves important for improving school life. Other international studies confirm the conclusions of Professor Anne Bamford in the report «The Wow Factor». The Council of Europe's report 'Culture, Creativity and the Young', which came in 1999, says the same thing: the arts improve the capacity for creative thinking and problem solving. The arts improve the ability of communication, which is an essential skill in today's complex societies. The arts reinforce basic literacy and literacy skills and the ability to ‘read’ cultural codes. The subject of art improves the performance of students in other subjects, including basic subjects, for example: see Finland. I would also like to mention that the arts have proved to be particularly important as educational tools in working with special groups with special needs, for example. students with insufficient language control or different mental or physical disabilities. This government has shown, both through investment in cultural schools and through the cultural school system, that it is important for children and young people to be culturally creative and active, to which cultural schools are just giving rise. Today there is no room for anyone who wants to enter, and not least through the cultural school system - as many have mentioned - that allows students to meet professional artists in different forms and genres of art. I am pleased that the red-green government through the Cultural Promise has really put culture on the political agenda. In St.meld. No 8, Cultural schooling for the future - as also mentioned by the Council of State - is being promoted as important for the emphasis of creative learning on the Knowledge Promise. But both the cultural schools and the cultural school system depend on the fact that the third leg of the cultural initiative is in place, i.e. the cultural and artistic subjects of primary, secondary and teacher education. Yesterday I received an e-mail from teaching director Marit Rundberg at the Breidablikk secondary school in Sandefjord. She was very pleased that questions about the place of cultural subjects in school were to be debated in the Stortinget today, and wrote the following: ‘I would therefore like to tell you that in our school we are working on building a school model where the very basic principles you are going to mention apply: that aesthetic subjects should be the gateway to and the framework around achieving knowledge goals in theoretical subjects, yes, all subjects. It gives greater motivation and joy to work.’ I think it may be appropriate closing words for my part of the debate. Thank you to everyone who participated!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1314	Thank you to the interpellant for taking up an important question! And thank the participants in the debate for a good debate! I want to end with just a little bit of summary. There is actually one major feature that I think can often be a challenge in this type of debate: when a person talks about the practical-esthetic subjects, they are important in themselves, but they also represent important values that also go into other subjects. The same thing actually applies to all schools. Norwegian or mathematics are important subjects in themselves, but also develop skills in us for which we have general use as human beings and in society - and also in other subjects. The same goes for the opposite: all subjects in the school are knowledge subjects. Arts and crafts are an important subject of knowledge, which is the beginning of education for the economic pathways that are important to Norway. I think that sometimes in the political debate in the past, we used to say that we can't live by cutting our hair on each other. The answer to that is, well, we can live by cutting hair on each other -- if we also care to live by melting aluminum on each other, and make sure that we can live by designing new product and construct bridges on each other. So to illustrate how these different knowledge disciplines play together, it's like a lot of companies in Norway are going to be dependent on recruiting both those people who have a heavy real-life background and those who have a heavy design background and who have gone a completely different way. They all play a role in the development of Norwegian business. I think we should look at all the schools so that they develop the important skills that lie there. We need to develop basic skills in reading, accounting, etc. --it's a major challenge for Norwegian schools to get better at it. In addition, we need specialised knowledge and expertise in art and crafts, in music and in other aesthetic subjects, but also in a wide range of other disciplines. So it's not like there's a contradiction between the subjects that we've been discussing now and other subjects. On the contrary, they are complementary in a society that needs a wide range of skills and knowledge in the future. I thank you again for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1331	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over. The representatives are asked to take their seats so that we can get started quickly. The intention is to try to conclude the meeting before noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1339	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1448	During the debate Kåre Fostervold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘St.prp. No 27 on a State guarantee to Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace AS for the construction of a composite plant is returned to the Government. [[2007-2008]] The Government asks the Government to promote a new state guarantee case to Kongsberg Defence and Aerospace AS for the construction of composite plants once the three contestants have submitted their respective industrial plans and these have been evaluated.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1481	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 4-6, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4-6, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a confiscation fund to remove the royal crab stock outside the commercial zone.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that there is no geographical or longitudinal restriction on the participation in king crab fishing.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the compensation scheme for damaged fishing equipment, yarns and the like due to royal crabs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1517	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-3, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the revised national budget for 2008 allocates funds to the initiation of the capture of king crabs during 2008.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce universal service obligations for landslides for royal crabs’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government, in cooperation with the land-based royal crab reception facilities, to develop a system for dealing with damaged and small crabs that are not suitable for sale.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1556	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no votering theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-03.ana.ud232e1604	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
