ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e124	The representatives Heikki Holmås and Hans Olav Syversen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Trond Helleland on parental leave from 1 January to 28 February from the representative of Trine Skei Grande on leave from 2 January to 10 January to take part in a trip to a democracy project in Zambia On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for Buskerud County Beate Heieren Hundhammer, and for Oslo Alvhild Hedstein, are called to meet during the leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e164	The representative of Inge Wohnning will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e167	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for an urgent examination of the impact of an Icelandic EU application.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e172	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Ms Søreide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e177	On behalf of Anders Anundsen, Dagrun Eriksen, Odd Einar Dørum and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to postpone the entry into force of the Santa Claus directive of 14 September 2007. I also ask that the proposal be examined today in accordance with the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e184	The request to examine this proposal will be complied with without delay. The matter shall be entered on an additional agenda which shall be dealt with on the ordinary agenda today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e200	I would like to brief you briefly on the current proposals for amendments. One is that the voluntary system of recording the duties and financial interests of representatives is made compulsory. The rules are also proposed in the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, with detailed rules adopted by the Grand Duchy and not, as today, by the Presidency. The second is that although proposals for new regulations are largely based on rules already in force, some provisions of the voluntary scheme are clarified — for example: provision is made for the registration of a task carried out by a representative through a company of which he or she is the owner. It is also proposed to publish the register on the Storting website. It is true that the information provided today is public but is not available enough in practice. Therefore, we propose that these registrations be posted on our websites. The Presidency's proposal for a decision is therefore recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e213	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1688]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e229	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee decided on 17 June 2008 to launch a separate case on the implementation process of a new hospital hospital at the Radium Hospital. At that time there had already been a consultation of the Health and Care Committee on the occasion of the case, but due to the process and the high attention paid to it, the Committee chose to go through it in a thorough manner. Several letters have been sent to the Department, and the Council of State has given us an update even after the summer following a request from us in October 2008, and we have received full information from the Council of State on the occasion of the case. The Committee would point out that a main justification for the hospital project since its first launch in 2003 – which has therefore been discussed repeatedly in the board, including at the Radium Hospital, was nothing new, but has been discussed repeatedly in spring 2008 – was the purpose of relieving the pressure on treatment places/sick beds at the Radium Hospital and thereby also facilitating the pressure on the health company’s operating budget by reducing the costs of transport and accommodation for day-care patients at the hospital. Of course, the Committee considers that this objective is still in place. The current procedure, which has been reviewed and the signing of various agreements, leads the Committee to conclude that we are now in a good phase by the fact that the medical hotel will be realised in cooperation with the Cancer Association, which has an extended treatment offer, so that the very inconvenient process will have a happy end result. An overall committee is very pleased that what is so very negative is now at a good stage. The building is in progress, and you look forward to opening towards the end of next year. So much from an overall committee. The members of the Workers' Party, Right, SV and the Centre have their own comments, which the government parties also have on some points. It is also this one's from the Party of Advancement, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party as well as from the Christian People's Party, and I expect that the others will justify their comments and their views, to the extent that they think it necessary and desirable. For my part and for the Progress Party, I would like to highlight in particular the enormous effort that some private individuals involved in the matter have made. Arthur Buchhardt was the one who was the most prominent when it became known that instead of realizing the hospital, for which former director Danielsen had fought for a long, long time, one was to tear the scaffolding and finish the work at the Radium Hospital. So it was clear that it was built a foundation for a multistorey medical hotel, the scaffolds were there, but then you had to tear the scaffolds and stop it all at a considerable extra cost, anyway, for the hospital. This was particularly bad, since private individuals were willing to bear both all the investment costs and the operating costs. It is such that the need for a medical hotel at the Radium Hospital was very significant. The hospital already had expenses for patients who had to stay overnight at the hospital's expense in the neighborhoods, and there was no hotel in the neighborhoods. At that time, taxi costs were also incurred to and from the hotels used, often in Bærum, where patients were often placed, and there were large extra costs. So in this way, a hundred pst would be right over there. privately funded and operated hotels have been a reasonable commercial project, because the availability of relatively safe overnight guests – both related to patients at the Radium Hospital and patients – was in itself such that one could be reasonably sure to operate a good commercial hotel, including with favourable accommodation prices, in competition with any other. Nevertheless, there were opinions here in the storeroom both from Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and then Minister of Health Sylvi Brustad who insisted that no, you should stand here, that no medical hotel should be built, and you should also refuse to do so in private. I have to say that I have some problems finding parliamentary expression for some of the statements to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health at the time, so let me say it this way: they made very unwise statements. A popular expression says something else, but I'm not going to use it, because then I'm going to be clubbed. There were very, very unwise statements that both the Prime Minister and Sylvia Brustad came into the staging room, especially in a spontaneous question hour, where it was strongly stated that under no circumstances was it possible to allow the construction of a medical hotel. It was then a kingdom of rams in the populace. No one else could understand why you should say no to a project that didn't cost the public five flat ears because it itself would be bill equivalent. When you finally forced it through against a government on the waving front and it was accepted, there were probably ten offers from private people. They accepted an offer from the Cancer Association, but the remarkable thing was that when they asked to see a copy of the offer, it did not exist on the paper. There were only oral agreements and at all events no serious processing of all these private, serious proposals submitted by the various parties. It's a process that we hope we don't see in the future, because it wasn't very good. Fortunately, it has materialized a good deal with the Cancer Association. Now we can give tribute to the final result, which was very, very uncertain at the time when it was stated to the extent that you would choose the Cancer Association. You got blushed ashore. Finally, however, I would like to mention that it cannot be necessary to use public funds in areas where it is fully possible for private individuals to be responsible for both investment and operation – at least have a minimum of Public Private Cooperation. The main reason why Sylvia Brustad and Prime Minister Stoltenberg said that they would not be involved in this was that if there were funds for a possible medical hotel, it would be at the expense of another purpose. So within the tight budgets, you couldn't pick up money from another purpose. We now received an additional allocation, and it is clear that the additional allocation could also have been given elsewhere. The solution that has been reached is precisely the one that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health warned against — because public budget money has been used that could have been used for another purpose. Here it is a purely accounting hotel project that could have been realised by private operators, and that in addition they said they were interested in doing so. This adjournment to private solutions that the sitting government has, I think, is regrettable. Even during the autumn budgetary procedure, we have heard that there are limited budgets for macroeconomic sizes and others – although they have changed dramatically in recent months – and then it should be nice to have private investment and operations where they can save public money. Providing hotel facilities near major hospitals if there are not already hotels there is a typical task in other countries for hotel chains operating hotel activities in relation to large hospitals that require overnight accommodation. In my opinion, it makes no sense then not to say, "So nice that private people can do it so that we let go, and we can use our limited resources in completely different and more necessary areas." In this way, the Prime Minister and Sylvia Brustad were right, but their conclusion was that when they were not affected, they would not be allowed to make any necessary offers. That was a pointless conclusion. My conclusion and that of the Progress Party is the very opposite: where private investment and operations can be carried out, it is entirely unnecessary to use taxpayers' money and to engage the public decision-making apparatus or operating apparatus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e257	The opposition has two important tasks in a democracy. One is to make a political alternative, to give the voters a choice. The other is to make sure that the Government complies with the rules and rules of the game. Therefore, it was not unexpected that the opposition would investigate whether the Government had followed the governance procedures to be followed by the health company in the case around the medical hotel in the Radium hospital. It started in the Health and Care Committee with the consultation of the Minister for Health. But when you didn't settle for the answers, you used your right to raise the matter in the Control and Constitutional Committee. Today, we find that an overall committee acquits the Minister of Health when it says in the vote: ‘The Committee stresses that when the Control and Constitutional Committee dealt with the matter, there were many uncertainties and unanswered questions on the occasion of the case. However, as the Committee assesses the current situation, most and most key questions relating to the medical hotel project have been answered in retrospect.» It is the representative of Carl I. Hagen who is the case rapporteur, and therefore it is worth noting that the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party in a separate special remark ‘shows that many critical remarks have been made about the treatment process itself but have been clarified by subsequent events’. This is probably the closest thing you can get an open complaint from these parties about not believing in the Minister of Health at the time when she said she had not intervened in the matter, until it had scientifically ended up on her table through an application for extended loan frameworks. The review by the board of Health South-East involved KPMG to remedy the proceedings and decision-making process of the Rikshospitalet HF states briefly that the application process for investment funds was not carried out in accordance with adopted procedures. The hospital's management went beyond their powers when PEAB was told to start the construction work. The way this case was handled in the Rikshospitalet HF, put both the hospital, health south-east and the state in a very difficult situation. The result was an agreement with the Cancer Association, so that the hospital could be built and the loss could be avoided, and because the Ministry of Health said yes to the application to extend the loan framework, it was also avoided that other and higher priority investments were affected. The progress party and the Right travels in the comments questions as to whether a private engagement could not be more reasonable and perhaps work as well, and the rapporteur used most of his intervention to argue for it. Yes, we don't know the correct answer. However, in relation to the substance of the case, a private engagement would not change the fact that this investment was not among the priorities. Already in 2006 it was clarified by the Ministry of Health that financial leases and investment projects organised under the OPS model are also considered investments. Therefore, they should also enter the priority queue. A solution with private investors was therefore not an option that could have escaped the hospital from the queue of investment needs without breaking the decision-making procedures. Therefore, it is also critical that the management at the Rikshospitalet had contact with Norlandia. Care for this possibility, in parallel with their request for health south-east to have the project approved. It is not possible to look at investment in the interests of others other than own-initiative investment in prioritisation between different projects. For whoever borrows, who builds, or who operates, the hospital's operating budget will be affected to the seventh and last – and that's the point. It is not uncommon for a control case to also address traditional political disagreements. Then there are repetitions of a debate about, in this case, private involvement in the healthcare system, which in this case is about the operation and construction of a medical hotel. However, there is a debate on something other than the issue of control, because it must be about whether the government has acted under the rules to be followed, and not whether it agrees or disagrees with the political elections, for example. to use privately or to operate under their own control. The governance of the health care system is one of the most demanding things we can imagine. It cannot be accepted that someone is trying to get along and does not respect the procedures and frameworks set by the governing bodies. Therefore, I think it is alarming that the representatives of the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party are not involved in the comments on how this was done in the Rikshospitalet HF.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e293	It's a saying that when the end is good, everything is good. It is in most cases a significant exaggeration. In this case, there is agreement that the end is good, i.e. to the satisfaction of future users that the solution is in the process of being implemented. But above all, there is a consensus that there is an immeasurably much better solution than the alternative solution, namely that the investments that had been made and the construction project that had begun had been zeroed. It would have been a totally unusually bad solution. What remains is what the control committee has gone through, namely the quality of the decision-making process itself. There is well reason to stress what has been said in the comment from the Advancement Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, that it is quite solid lessons to draw for the ministry of the way the process was this time. The case rapporteur pointed out the very special fact that on the same day in Stortinget, a trade minister and the Prime Minister categorically rejected a solution that will soon be the solution. What was particularly remarkable in this matter was that the Prime Minister went so far that he said three times in the Questionnaire here in Stortinget that it would undermine the whole system of how we manage the health budgets in this country, if one were to reverse the decision that was then made by the board of Health South-East. Then you have to be able to ask afterwards, Is the system broken? According to my concepts, the answer to this is quite clear: No, the system is not broken. It has been pointed out in the report that the decision-making process of the underlying bodies, i.e. the management of the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital and that board, had been made quite clear. It has also been pointed out that many rather panicking measures were taken when things were then put on the verge of a clear demand from the opinion – the voters – that this should be resolved in a different way. A number of things were done that do not keep track of normal proceedings. There's reason to remember what was said in the Inn. S. No 265 for 2007-2008, from the majority of the Health and Welfare Committee: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left, would point out that there would have been an advantage if there had been a justification for the funding and cooperation model chosen. Good administrative practice also suggests to the majority that it would have been natural for those who have been invited to make offers to receive feedback on the reasons why they have found it appropriate to reject the offer.’ It is also appropriate to recall that when we conducted open consultations on the matter in the Health and Welfare Committee – this was in May this year – neither the Council of State, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, nor the Executive Director of the Cancer Association were able to provide any information on the content of the agreement that was then concluded with the Cancer Association. That content only appeared at a long, long later time, i.e. it has at no time been a real assessment of different alternatives, simply because, for political reasons, it was decided to cut short the entire process to which it had invited itself, by inviting private providers to submit their proposals. Those proposals were never subject to any real assessment. There was no real comparison between the advantages and disadvantages of individual proposals. It is clear from the attitude of the control committee that the opposition is still very critical of parts of the decision-making process, and not least that the order of the factors became as illogical as it actually became, by triggering a process in a panic-carded situation which was then interrupted before it was set to target, and by entering into an agreement which was not known before at a much later date. Let me also point to the comment on which the Right and Christian People's Party are united in the decision of the Control Committee, which states that it is clearly a public responsibility to ensure that sufficient capacity is available in the hospital service and that there is also sufficient provision of the services to be provided by a patient hotel. However, there is in no way any obstacle to this being done in the form of public-private cooperation. We believe from the Right and the Christian People's Party that it is not only possible, but it is desirable to add up and invite to such cooperation. There may well be reason to stress it extra strongly in a situation where it may seem that there may be more activity in the coming year than you have been accustomed to in recent years, due to the financial crisis. There may be grounds for recalling that arrangements should be sought which are as effective and economically beneficial to the State as possible. The question of whether it should be public or private should not be an ideological question. There should be a simple, practical/pragmatic question: what leads the fastest to the goal, with at least public expenditure?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e317	It is not surprising that this became a matter for the control committee, given the high noise factor that was linked last year to the realization of this hospital hotel. It is therefore with great satisfaction that an overall committee states that, through this procedure, we have received the answers we wanted. The examination of the case has shown, through the work of the Control Committee, that it was possible to provide good answers, although not all responses are necessarily agreed. The issue on the agenda today is primarily a matter of control, not a matter of health policy on different priorities in the health sector, on which some speakers have been involved. It is a responsibility of the Trade Union Committee, not of the Control Committee. However, let me state that it is very positive that we have now got a solution to the matter, and that a medical hotel will now be realized, which will be handed over in a year, and which will be moved into early 2010. That's the most important thing, and of course we're all very satisfied with that. It is also true that the decision-making process has not been – let me say it – directly beautiful, and that it should not at all form a pattern for future decision-making processes. But as I said, the exposure around this has meant that we have received a health hotel. It has, among other things, The commitment of the Cancer Association contributed to – including the money the Cancer Association has made available, which means that we now have a combined medical hotel and a cancer centre at the Radium Hospital. There's a lot to learn from this process. I guess that's what's most important to us all. Let me say that I feel that the procedure in the committee has given us important information and also important lessons. However, let me dwell on something that none of the previous speakers have been involved, and that is the process that was internal to the hospital. Health South-East carried out a procedure and a decision-making process. Health South-East asked the KPMG to investigate what had been done, and the conclusion in this report is also quoted in the settings. Let me just quote a little bit from it: ‘It follows from our assessments that the actions of the Rikshospitalet HK represented by the former Executive Director are the reason for the imposition of obligations on the health business in breach of the applicable procedures and powers. [[...]] Although it can be claimed that Health South-East RHF could have been even more active in the dialogue with the Rikshospitalet HF in the autumn of 2007, in our opinion, it has a secondary significance in this matter.» This report states very clearly that someone has gone beyond their mandates. That is what has led to this case being as complicated as it was. Now it is that this investment has become a good thing. However, although it is possible to review the decision-making process afterwards and see how this has been achieved, it is important to establish that a priority discussion needs to be held, and this priority discussion is not assigned to the health care provider in this case. This means that they are responsible for making an overall assessment and prioritisation of the investments desired in the region. Compliance with adopted procedures is essential. Of course, that's a point in itself, because if you don't ensure that these agreed procedures and priorities are complied with, this will be extremely demanding. That is what happened in this case, and the KPMG report also states. Therefore, an overall committee agrees that the application process for investment funds for the medical hotel was not carried out in accordance with adopted procedures. A majority – I am a little surprised that it is not an overall committee – believe that the examination of this matter by the Rikshospitalet management and board was an unacceptable violation of the decision-making rules, which imposed on Health South-East financial obligations contrary to current powers. I'm very surprised that there's not an overall committee that's behind this. This is the conclusion of the report, and it is quite clear through the procedure that this has happened. It is not, at my discretion, a general health policy debate on what should be given priority. As I said earlier, this is not a matter for the Committee on Control as such. It is a matter for the Council of State and the Committee here in Stortinget. Let me conclude by saying the following: This process has been necessary — it turned out both through the great attention the matter received last year, and through the procedure that has been in the committee, that it was necessary to clarify this. I am pleased that the department and two state councils have responded well to the Committee's questions, and that we have also been able to conclude in the way we have now. And not least, it will be the most important thing – it is that we now realize a hospital at the Radium Hospital at an acceptable price and at costs that do not distort other investments planned by the healthcare company.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e341	The case rapporteur has explained this matter in a clear way – others have also followed up, not least the representative Wage, who also presented comments that the Christian People's Party is in favour of. I will therefore just briefly associate a few words with this, as the Christian People's Party has a special remark in the vote. In this case, contrary to most of the cases under review, the Committee has not been consulted. This means that, in our view, the committee has not got a complete picture. All the parties involved have not been able to tell their version of the case. The Committee sent several letters to the State Councils and, in our view, the answers did not provide a basis for the Committee to go deeper into the problem. So now a sentence is set for these preparations. Then the majority, as also referred to here, have nevertheless chosen to put some strong comments into the position on matters which the Committee, in the view of the Christian People's Party, has not provided sufficient grounds for thinking about. We have responded in particular to the fact that, by referring to the external review of the proceedings, ordered by the Board of Health South-East, the majority also addresses staff issues relating to the handling of the case by the former CEO. On a principle basis, the Committee has been cautious on previous occasions to address human resources issues. It is a fact that the matter ended with the Executive Director having to leave. By referring to the role of the former Executive Director, Stortinget is involved in a way that gives contact with something that is a controversial human resources issue. You shouldn't do that. Under no circumstances should it have been done without hearing the parties to the case. A lot also suggests that this case is more complex than what appears in that report. Look up in the press in the very last minute also indicates that. The Christian People's Party notes that we do not have a basis for deciding on the guilt issue in the matter. We believe that the majority of the committee goes too far when it can look like they're appointing a responsible person. This is the basis for the Christian People's Party finding it right to make its own special remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e358	No one disagrees with the fact that building a medical hotel is good. In modern treatment, it helps to ease the pressure on sick people, etc. - So everyone agrees. Everyone wants one to be able to operate the hospitals that are good, and a hospital is often a good alternative to being hospitalised, both for patients and for family members. But I chose to take the floor after hearing Mr. Hagen's comments. I've always seen Carl I. Hagen as one who's concerned that one should follow procedures, that one should be careful how things are adopted, etc. Then I find it strange that he does not stop at what is in a way the very core of this, namely that the board of a local health company for the Rikshospital makes decisions that are across what Health South-East actually believes. I refer you to the comment that the majority writes: ‘The majority consider that the treatment of this case by the management and management of the Rikshospitalet HF was an unacceptable breach of the decision-making procedures established for investments in the health establishments which imposed financial obligations on the health care undertaking in breach of the applicable procedures and powers.’ The progress party is not on that note, but I should like to know if the representative Hagen believes that the board of directors of the Rikshospitalate has exceeded their powers in relation to the signals given by Health South-East and also given by the Ministry regarding investments. Another thing that Rikshospitale's government and management do by going in for an investment that doesn't have top priority, either in the Rikshospitalet or in Health South-East, is actually putting other important projects on hold. It cannot, of course, operate health businesses and carry out the priorities around them. I believe the matter finally got a very good outcome. I also believe that both the Minister of Health and the Department came up with a good solution. The fact that there was turbulence around this is easy to understand, but it has its background in that there are some people here who don't follow the rules. I had hoped that the representative Hagen would be able to stay a bit longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e374	Yes, I'm going to be happy to dwell on the theme that Rune Kjellea addressed, to what extent you're going to follow the rules, guidelines and decisions. You have to – initially. You do not have to follow signals, because signals are very strange, but there are decisions and concrete, clear guidelines from the bodies that have the governing authority, which initially form what you have to follow. In the present case, we have a total mass that says we are satisfied with the final result. But why do we have the final result? Because someone didn't follow the perfectly clear and unambiguous guidelines. If they had followed the guidelines — and the decisions — drawn up in Health South-East and from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health, the scaffolding had been demolished, and then no medical hotel had been built. But everyone, including Rune Skjellaaen and Svein Roald Hansen, is pleased that the medical hotel is now being built. So you're happy that someone was so obvious that they didn't immediately follow what they should have followed. And yes, I believe they should have acted differently and formally seen correctly, but then we had no medical hotel at the Radium Hospital. That's what's the dilemma, which I think others have to take over today when you say you're satisfied. The only reason is that the former director, Danielsen, who got a very remarkable message from above that this isn't on the priority list, said it doesn't have to be on any priority list, because this isn't going to cost the Radium Hospital five flat ears. If he was only allowed to build either the Norlandia chain, the Rica chain, Arthur Buchardt or others and perhaps also pay a real rent for the plot on the top of it built that was already some floors up, it would not cost the state five cents! It's clear that when you're faced with what I've at least allowed myself to call unwise decisions – not to use the more popular expression – and assertivity, along with the efforts of Arthur Buchardt and some more, and when it comes to winning, you can't just say today in the hall, as the Rune Kschelaa makes, that you're satisfied with the final result. This is because of the adage of Danielsen. And he had steered in his back until the end. This has been submitted to the board several times, and he had ruled on his side when it came to using his head and common sense. And there was no reason for it to go over the public budgets. Today's solution has gone beyond the public budgets, quite the opposite of what the Rune Kjellaa just said, because there has been an additional allocation, a sum of money, which could have been used for anything else, if you had said yes to one of the offers that didn't have to cost five cents. It is not like Svein Roald Hansen said in his post, that the operating budget would be affected sooner or later, or in any case. I suppose it wouldn't! If a Rican hotel was built on that site, which was fully operated as an ordinary hotel, the hospital could buy hospitals – which it already did far, far away, in Bærum, with taxi journeys back and forth for patients. The hospital's operating budget would save the taxi bills! And the overnight rate in Bærum would be good to drive the hotel on top of. It wouldn't cost five cents! When you are told that there is an alarming need for hotel capacity at the Radium Hospital, and then there are some remarkable instructions that you should not do what is common sense, namely to allow some private to do so, when it does not cost your own budget five flat ears, then it becomes so that you shake your head over the immoderateness. It has been confirmed today by a total accumulation that says that you are very pleased that it becomes a medical hotel, even an additional grant from the state, which would have been really unnecessary if you had let a private, commercial company run it. So you take the profit to keep Danielsen from following the 100 pst guideline. I am aware that this is a formal error, and I am in favour of a unanimous comitology in the vote, where it says: ‘The report concludes that the application process for investment funds for a medical hotel was not carried out in accordance with adopted procedures.’ I'll take note of that. So a whole bunch of people say that you're very happy with the final result, that the hospital is coming. I am sure that the Minister for Health is pleased to make a formal opening. I assume that the Prime Minister knows enough to refrain from coming there and cutting a string, because if his will had been realised, there would never have been any medical hotel there. But Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has entered his new chair after this has happened, and is of course welcome to cut the cord when the hotel opens. But he should be aware of the fact that Åg Danielsen and Arthur Buchardt really owe a little gratitude. It was wrong what was done by the board at the end, and by Danielsen, but I would say that it is a very strongly mitigating circumstance. He can at least look forward, thanks to his efforts, to the fact that the medical hotel will stand there. It is not thanks to the sitting government, who did what it could to prevent it, until it was overrun by the voters, who were very clear in their speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e401	Does Hagen think building a medical hotel, whether it's private or the public building it, won't cost money? Although the Rikshospital has hotel costs for patients at other hotels in the city, he must not tell me that this will not cost you in the future. A health hotel, as it is to be operated now, also has some additional qualities that other hotels do not have. But my point is that going for a decision to invest in something that doesn't have first priority, a priority that you've agreed on, is very unsolvable also to the other projects that are in Health South-East. That's my point. If you don't care about what's going on all the time, but you do your own assessments and you think it's wise, you get out of the way. And I think this case actually shows – you came out completely to drive, just because you broke rules and regulations, as the government of the National Hospital did.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e410	I think it has been interesting to sit and listen to the debate of the Control and Constitutional Committee here today. I just need to attach a few notes to this, seen from my point of view. First of all, I would like to say that we are going to be aware that there are numerous variations of cooperation between our state hospitals and private hospitals. There are models where we're renting building mass. Within the equipment area we also have rental systems, leasing systems. We have variants of public developers and private operators. We have variants of private builders and public operators. We have variants of «buying now – pay later», «free now» means both investment and operation, but the cost is incurred gradually. So there's an innumerable number of these types of variants in the system. I agree that we should have a rather pragmatic approach to this, and not reject all such variants on an ideological basis. At least that's not my point of view. But decisions have to be made at the right level. It may not be possible for anyone in the system to be able to cope with this, because very often there are larger and more comprehensive assessments that need to be made to see whether the lease, lease or private operation has an impact on other parts of the business. So the most important thing in this case is that the committee agrees that you can't just get along with that system. You can't say that now I have a relationship with a private one, so I can just steer away from any decision-making process. Decisions must be taken to assess whether the investment needs to be seen in the context of anything else, whether it is actually as free as it is produced, whether it is wise to consider whether alternative uses exist, for example. an empty space. It could be important. This decision must be taken by the bodies responsible for decision-making. I am very pleased that there is a stir up, and that there is such clear support that the department has thus understood and handled the matter correctly. So some comments about that Carl I. Hagen, among others. says that we are all pleased that the medical hotel will be in place. Yes, when we were there, there is no doubt that it was reasonable that we finally built the hospital. Then the investments were in progress, then the scaffolds were up, then essential parts of what is now being ordered were the building body, and it would have indisputably incurred the large public costs if at that time the building had been interrupted. That's why we're all happy that we're now getting a health hotel, instead of the cost of not getting a health hotel. But that's not the same thing as saying to the former director: well, well, the purpose sanctifies the means. We have never been able to assess whether this use of this site, which is the roof of another building, is actually the right priority in relation to a hospital. We can never get an answer as to whether this costs the public health service, because we may have to build elsewhere with other things that we need at the Radium Hospital. That assessment has never been taken because that question was not submitted to the authorities responsible for carrying out an overall assessment. An overall assessment is about more than whether it is possible to operate a hotel and build a hotel in an economic balance. It's about moving into a crowded area with a big barley. It may be more important to give priority to the site of the hospital, but that assessment has never been taken by the authorities responsible for it. So from that point of view and with that precision, we share the same joy. Otherwise, I notice, of course, that the spokesman for the largest opposition party turns into a spokesman for a rule that sounds something like this: if you first break the rules, at least you have to make sure that you have a reasonable purpose as a starting point for the violation of the rules. And then most of it's allowed. Well, at least I don't think it can be a delivery gel that the Government and the Council of State can adopt, and therefore I am glad that the committee has landed as it has done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e430	Just to continue where the Council of State left off: it may be that Hagen had anticipated that the Government had followed that recipe, for the control committee would have a lot to hang its fingers in if the Government had dealt with the legislation in the same way as the management of the Rikshospital did in this case. Only two comments. – One is that the representative Hagen has a somewhat strange definition of the term ‘free’. He says that today the hospital buys hotel beds in Bærum. So they're going to buy it on their own land – it's not free. It may be that the sum of it is more reasonable because you save transport, but it's not free. It must be underlined. The second is that I want to make a reservation for Hagen's reasoning. I am glad that he agreed with the criticism that happened when the legislation was broken and did not follow – almost to say – the recipe. But then he adds that there is a mitigating circumstance. I would very much like to reserve myself against the fact that such mitigating circumstances are being shared out from the Parliament's pulpit, because it is an invitation to be able to challenge yourself in the queue by doing things in an inexorable way and not having respect for what is to be the responsibility of executive bodies in a very complex management system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e439	In addition to what has been commented on by others here, I only have one comment to make to the representative Hagen's comments. I am very pleased that he already states that we are going to win the election, when he states that it is the State Council Hanssen who will open the building in early 2010. I am also very pleased that he states that we still have a prime minister named Jens Stoltenberg, who obviously should not be invited to the same building in 2010. I'm glad that Hagen goes into the campaign with that starting point, and hope he gets right!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e444	The grand jury's committee of control and constitution is no court, and I think we should be happy about that. The size in plenary is also not a court to allocate blame. There is probably also reason to recall that the Enlarged Council's Supervisory and Constitutional Committee is also not a forecasting institute for future election results. I need to add a few comments to what the Council of State said, which I essentially agree with in terms of principle. But there's reason to remember that the situation you were in, as the Council of State pointed out very correctly, did not have the character of an open situation where all the options were available on the table, and where you could freely decide for A, B, C, D, E or other alternatives. It had in a sense the character of a coercive situation. Then you can discuss the division of guilt as to why the coercion situation was the way it was. But in any case, I think it is important to remember that at the time that the case became a matter for Stortinget through the representative proposal that was launched on 30 April 2008, the same day that the Stortinget had both oral Question Time and ordinary Question Time, where the matter was a review theme, everyone knew that the hoists were there, and everyone knew that there were tens of millions invested. Everyone knew that the consequence of the position of Health South-East then stood, and as the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health left all his authority behind, was that one should rigged for the sake of the principle, and one must understand to set an example and to preserve the systems, on which the Prime Minister put great emphasis. Of that, one must at least be able to draw the lesson that it is rarely wise to go so high on the ground as to defend system constraints for the sake of the system itself. As I said in my post instead, I think the Prime Minister took a very serious mistake when he said that revising a clearly inappropriate position helps undermine an entire system. I think it's the opposite. Being able to show ‘common sense’ in given difficult choices helps to maintain the system, not to undermine it. It is the rigid form of interpretation of the rules that puts the system ahead of the practical solutions that help undermine respect for the systems. So it is important to remember that after the whole review and with the attitude of the control committee now, there are still some questions that we will never get answers to, perhaps with the exception of the possibility that someone in the future will write their memoirs, but it may be long before that time comes. To date, we do not know why the director of the Rikshospitalet Radium Hospital found it necessary to resign. We still don't know what alternatives one would have had to choose from if the government and the state council had taken a little better time when it started burning under their feet. We're not going to know that, simply because you chose to jump straight to another conclusion without knowing what the content of that conclusion really was. You can interpret that in many ways. But I still think, after the examination by the Control Committee, that the most close interpretation of the manner in which the Council of State acted was that it was simply not desirable to have possible alternatives on the table, as one had invited itself, and therefore hoped for the agreement with the Cancer Association, which at that time was still a complete agreement. I will insist that the Health and Care Committee said about this in its position, Innst. S. No 265 for 2007–08, still standing quite well, that this should not be the case for any future government, even in panic situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e457	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1690]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e473	Mistreatment is something any patient should not experience. But mistakes are being made – we will never get away from that in the health service either. That's why we have Norwegian patient compensation to some extent to compensate for loss. The scheme has now also been extended to cover maltreatment in the private health sector. It is for everyone to have to apply for compensation. The Ombudsman, following many enquiries from patients who believe that they have been mistreated and who have applied for compensation from Norwegian patients, has investigated how Norwegian patient damages work in relation to waiting time, etc. An overall committee shares the Ombudsman’s view that procedural capacity is the major challenge. Norwegian patients’ compensation has introduced a stowage regime where applicants are placed before being awarded a case handler. The reason for this is that each case handler should not have too many cases at the same time, i.e. too large a case portfolio and therefore could not do a thorough enough job with the individual case. Furthermore, an overall committee believes that this system of queues has clear weaknesses. The Committee is clear and clear that applicants need to be given written feedback that the information they submit on a continuous basis is being reviewed even before they receive early case-handling. An overall committee asks the Ministry of Health and Welfare to monitor closely the development of Norwegian patient compensation. We believe that this is actually important. It is important that applications should be properly examined, both in the case of waiting times, the time required for the examination of the application and by the professional evaluation of the application. It is important to bear in mind that very many applicants for patient damages have a history that has been difficult due to mistreatment. Therefore, it is also important that when they first apply and go through such a demanding process, they are treated properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e486	I have nothing to add to the facts of the case, as the rapporteur has explained. I just want to raise a small issue related to this report from the Civil Ombudsman. It is quite understandable that the Civil Ombudsman, when he gets several complaints in the same area, chooses to go beyond it and take one and one and see if the system is good enough. That's understandable. It's happened before, and it's probably going to happen again. But there may be complex things that make us in a grey zone against the administrative audits of the National Audit Office. I just want to raise that issue because they're implemented by certain methods. They may be methodically demanding to be implemented. I just want to put back the idea that maybe the Civil Ombudsman should consider in future cases whether to have some kind of cooperation with the Riksrevision in that kind of review, so that you can use the same methodology here and draw on each other's experiences. This is – I stress it – not meant as any criticism that the Civil Ombudsman has chosen this form of communication in this case. I just want to raise the issue, so that we don't get two instances dealing with something that can be close to each other, without at least the methodological basis being similar.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e497	The Ombudsman is quite clear in the conclusion that the length of the procedure is unacceptable. When we see that, in total, this means 777 days, i.e. over two years, from one case to another, until the patient concerned is compensated, of course, it's too much. It is also too much that the period of time between 2005 and 2007 has increased by 86 days. In recent years, a number of measures have been put in place to improve the situation. It could be that the situation and the procedure would be even worse if this had not been done. Evolution shows that it is absolutely necessary to do more. I hope that the Council of State is now actively addressing the challenges, ensuring that action is taken and proposing sufficient appropriations, so that the processing time is reduced. Of course, it must not affect the quality either. There may seem to be a need for exceptional measures for a period of time so that the queues can be cleared away. In that case, a plan has to be made for it. Finally, we must never forget that behind every case that is being dealt with is a single person. It is unsustainable that the people seeking compensation, among other things, due to maltreatment and poor treatment in the healthcare system, it is necessary to wait so long for a clarification of their case. Too many people put this an extra should on shoulders that already carry heavy. Compensation could have improved a difficult life situation in the past. The system introduced is a matter of its own motion. I assume that the conditions that the Civil Ombudsman has taken up around this are taken into account, and that the ordering system, as I see it, should also be terminated as soon as it is practicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e510	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1690]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e526	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e535	I have the impression that there will not be a very big debate on this matter, and that is good in itself. It's an exercise we do every harvest. First, we adopt the budget for the following year before we change the budget we adopted the year before. I would like to mention an important matter that the Government mentions in the proposition, namely the prevention of sexual mutilation. It is intended that not all girls should be subject to compulsory pediatric examinations, but that provision should be made for the provision of the school health service on voluntary clinical pediatric studies to girls and women based on areas where there is a high incidence of sexual mutilation. Without going into that debate, I would like to say that other measures have also been taken through the Action Plan on Gender Equality and Increased Appropriations, and there is hope in the Committee that the actions being implemented will have an overall impact, and I hope that this will be systematically worked on and looked at the impact of these measures. The main amendment proposed in the budget is an additional allocation for hospitals of 500 million. kr. Several patients are treated in Norwegian hospitals, fortunately. Although the overall deficit of health enterprises may be less this year than they have been in recent years, there is still a significant deficit that increases liquidity and creates the need for shifts that can often be very demanding. The Committee supports the Government in strengthening the basic appropriations by 500 million. kr to hospitals for 2008, and the majority believe that this will strengthen liquidity and facilitate migration. In the budget adopted by the Stortinget for 2009, there is an allocation of 500 million. kr to facilitate conversions next year. Today, when we adopt a supplementary budget for 2008, this means that there are funds to facilitate migration both for 2008 and for 2009. The right, Christian People's Party and the left have a minority comment that in 2009 there was a growth in patient treatment of 1.5 pst. As I read the comment, questions are asked about what 1.5 pst. is calculated in relation to, as the growth for 2008 is higher than budgeted. To that I would say that in the 2009 budget, 300 million have been added. kr to cover increased activity growth in 2008 related to input-driven funding and outpatient treatment. That figure has been calculated as a forecast of activity figures for the first four months of 2008. The growth of 1.5 p.p., which is financed for 2009, is added to this. In the case of outpatient hospital activities, the Committee points out that the activity of public outpatient clinics in mental health protection/restaurant treatment, laboratories and radiology has been higher than budgeted and that this means that more people are receiving treatment. The Committee supports the Government’s proposal to increase the allocation by 95 million. kr. Finally, I would like to mention that there is a minority proposal relating to pension expenditure for 2007. I guess the next speaker will explain that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e554	The Progress Party joins the proposed allocations, but will also mention some other areas. The medical-technical equipment park in the Norwegian hospital has a huge aftermath. The Progress Party therefore supports a proposal of DKK 1 billion at the age of 2008, so that an investment package can be put in place to renew and repair the equipment in Norwegian hospitals. The appropriations will be carried over to 2009, but the necessary contracts and orders can already be concluded. The Progress Party also believes that the debt situation of hospitals in relation to the state is a major problem related to liquidity and economic space, and we therefore want to forgive NOK 2 billion of this debt. It is important for the Progress Party that this is done in such a way that the best hospitals also get part of this remission, and that the distribution is therefore in such a way as not to punish those who have kept order in their own homes. In the case of pension costs, private hospitals have not yet received full compensation for the large, increased costs. We know that many private and non-profit health providers have major problems with liquidity and the economic situation. The committee was also given detailed information about this when we visited Haraldsplatz in Bergen a few months ago. At a time when more and more people are in need of treatment but on waiting lists in the healthcare system, the solution is not to destroy or reduce the operational capacity of private operators. They perform an important part of public health and have the same need to meet the increased pension costs as public operators. Therefore, it is necessary to ensure that these too are covered by their increased pension costs. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party believe that it is important to make sure that 150 million. SEK in the pension costs of private non-profits is now covered. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal, on which the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are united.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e567	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e570	First of all, a comment on what the rapporteur had to say about the solution that the Government has chosen to recommend to the Stortinget in terms of sexual mutilation and, if necessary, a mandatory sub-situation study. From the Right, we agree with the solution that has been chosen, and believe that it is wise, because there would have been a completely obvious mismatch between the purpose and the apparatus that you would have had to mobilize, if you had opted for a complete and mandatory system. So a brief comment on this with the pension costs. The right is also clearly of the opinion that there should be a solution to this problem. As of today, half of the problem has been solved, i.e. for the first year, but the second half has not been resolved which continues to burden the equity situation and thus the operation of part of the private non-profit hospitals. When we do not support the proposal for an increase in appropriations, it is because we believe that this can and should find its solution within the framework of the ageing of the year's budget. So to the comment from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left that the case rapporteur referred to, and had a comment on. The reason why we've found it right to point out the problem of the percentages of increases in activity in the annual propositions is that it's very often difficult for the reader to see what these figures relate to, i.e. what sizes are you comparing when you give these estimates. The second relationship to which there is reason to point is that year after year, it appears that these estimates have a low guide value. It turns out once again that actual developments do not deviate insignificantly from what has been envisaged in the budget. Therefore, we believe that there may be grounds for the Council of State to go a little further into and assess whether there is an appropriate way to communicate with the Stortinget that estimates are as uncertain as these estimates have proved to be. Given that it is considered that it has a value as a management tool to include such assumptions in the budget adopted by the Stortinget, it may also be necessary to ask in what ways to ensure that this is followed and that the actual result at the end of the year is at least close to what was the basis for the adoption of the budget. We have also said in the joint note from the three parties that the main challenge in health businesses is not really related to the level of funding, 500 million. kr higher or lower, which we consider in relation to the balancing proposition. It is necessary to stress that the challenge is much greater than that, and that the challenge, as the Council of State has also said several times, is his intention to better control the overall allocation of resources and to manage a larger proportion of the health care resource growth towards primary health services, which will obviously have to be mitigated by the rather dramatic increase in resources we have seen in the specialist health service in recent years. The results of this year’s activities will only be well achieved in the new year, and it is only then that we can also assess the overall situation for health businesses. When we know the size of the deficits for the current year, we will also know how much of what is covered by the additional allocation of 500 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e585	It is regrettable that the private non-profit hospitals have not been able to cover the increased pension costs they received in 2007. In fact, it has major consequences for the hospitals involved. Today's Christian People's Party, together with the Progress Party, as we did last year, proposes that the Stortinget allocate 150 million. DKK to cover the increased pension expenditure of these hospitals for 2007. The Bergen Diakonissen home, Haraldsplatz, is one of the hospitals it's about. Also this hospital, Bergen Diakonisse home, was told the other day that for a great child-rescue institution, Garne's Youth Centre, it should be halved. They do not know if they can continue to operate this institution per year. the date of issue. And I must be allowed to state here that the government's handling of non-profit institutions is currently alarming. On top of another point: in the 2007 hospital input-driven financing bill, 82.9 million have been paid. NOK too much. As in 2006, the main issue is day-rehabilitation miscoding. In its annual report, the Billing Board writes the following: ‘The Billing Committee therefore had to conclude that the ISF base for day-care rehabilitation was also subject to a few exceptions in 2007. This is as serious as for 2006, perhaps especially since the sample was unable to find any signs of correction for the third tertiary in 2007. The amount of the curtailment may call for political attention.» Actually, it's done here today. The figures so far in 2008 show that there has been a change in the coding of day-care services, but on the basis of issues they have looked at in 2008, health care businesses have to strengthen their training and self-control in relation to code practices and compliance with the rules on input finance. It may be interesting to hear the Council of State's explanation for this, and what action will now be taken to strengthen hospital practice in this area. This must become even more important in the future, as I see it, when input-driven funding is to be used for outpatient activity, and also outside hospitals, as the Council of State has warned. The framework for this year’s debate on the changes to the State budget of the Ministry of Health and Welfare in the current year is quite different from the last year’s debate. Last year the papers were full, we remember, of statements about cuts and cuts and about the danger of life and health. Last year, the Council of State said it was ‘clearly all have to deal with the decision of the Storting. It is fundamentally undemocratic to do something else». In the autumn, there has been so much silence, and there have also been proposals from the Government to grant an additional 500 million to all four regional health establishments. kr ‘to strengthen liquidity and facilitate migration challenges’. This will also reduce the total hospital deficit from 900 million. NOK 400 million. kr. That's why it's a good handshake to the hospitals. At the same time as this proposal for funding was presented by the Government on 14 November of this year, the Council of State of Today's Medisin stated on 20 November: «Today we spend a lot of money wrong in Health-Norway. The answer to the problems is not to use even more incorrectly - but to spend the correct amount of money you have." And he continues to declare that further efforts should come quickly and concretely in the primary health service. The Christian People's Party supports such thinking and has also long called for a focus on interaction in healthcare. At the same time, it is important to clarify that a new round of cutting suggestions and pressure against hospitals had been unfortunate. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal to increase the allocation to hospitals. Finally, I refer only to the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, which the representative Giltun has already mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e620	A few comments from me also in this debate. Let me first say that the important questions that Davøy raises about the use of DRG/ISF must be allowed to come back to. I just can't answer them directly. So some think about this that we are now choosing to promote a proposal for an additional allocation. To that end, it is important for me to say that it does not cancel the statement that we have to deal with the hospital budget once a year. I believe that the whole of political Norway will be served, whether you are in position or in opposition. In that statement there is also some self-criticism. We experienced beyond the fall that we were in a situation where the liquidity of two companies in particular – Health Mid-Norway and Health South-East – was very difficult. We've been in a situation where we've actually had to consider very carefully whether there were liquid enough funds to make the pay payments in December. We've come to the conclusion that it is, but initially it would require the displacement of some other bills in an unfortunate way. Therefore, we were actually in a situation where the choice was either an allocation or an extension of the overdraft basis, especially for the two companies. In that situation, the government and I believe that it was most appropriate to make this additional allocation. There's a lot of reasons why I'm not going to go into this, but that's the background of a hospitalization proposition. Otherwise, I would say that my experience so far is that the best management basis for hospitals is in many ways to manage from liquidity. It's very important to have overview and control, because it's undeniably that when it's actually getting empty in the account, there have to be changes that you can't just avoid by continuing to borrow. That is why this whole new credit regime that has been put in place in connection with the financial arrangement for 2009, in my opinion, is very important. Then, of course, I agree with both Wage and Blessey that there is no innovation in what is happening here. The Representative for Wage and I have also had a dialogue via the Parliamentary Chair on the budget for the next year and the degree of rethinking in it. I have no problem taking on that point that in what we are doing here, and in the 2009 budget, little of the change I think must happen in Health-Norway. Of course, it is the right of the opposition to point out that the work carried out by the Council of State in the context of the interaction reform is too slow, we should have done so before, etc. At least I can assure you that we are now working under high pressure. We started the reform work in August and will be done in April 2009. I don't think there are a lot of examples of an investigation work with such a big theme that has gone so fast. I understand the opposition, and I would, of course, do exactly the same if I had been in opposition – said that it is going too slow anyway. But to the extent that you're actually concerned about keeping pace or not, it does. So just a little bit about this with retirement. I am aware that we have a problem with the private institutions in 2007 that have not been solved. And then we'll see if we can do it at any point. The most important thing for me is, after all, that we do not, as the representative Wohnning said in his post, have a problem for one year and a solution for one year. We don't just have a solution for a year, we have a solution this year and in the years that come, by putting in a system. However, a challenge remains to be addressed in 2007. The last thing I want to say is that I – although I agree that such a kind of growth estimate is always difficult – feel very confident that the growth forecasted for the budget in 2008 will now be ours. And it's actually budgeted with a growth of 1.5 pst, on top of that growth of about 2 pst. This year, in the 2009 budget. So the budgets are real for that growth base.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e646	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e649	The entire Committee, the previous Council of State and today's Council of State are very aware of how the private ideals are struggling because they have not been fully covered for increased pension expenditure in 2007. It's nothing new. They were actually expecting it to be fully covered. I wonder, what is the reason why the Council of State has chosen to cover only parts of it? Is it that you think that the private ideals have a lot of reserves and have a good opportunity to cover this even in a better way than the public? Or is it simply a way of strangling and making it difficult for the private, and perhaps not showing enough understanding of the challenges they face when they are not covered by so much economic costs? It can't possibly be about money, for 150 million. kr is not much for the Government, but it is very much for those who now have to take this load in operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e657	There are some occasions during such a line change that it would almost have been desirable for some of the representatives from the Progress Party to have tried out in the government offices. Then I think there would have been at least one statement the representative would have eaten: that 150 million. kr is not much for the Government. I think the representative would have experienced that the 150 million. You would have been willing to do a lot to get hold of it. 150 million. kr is an awful lot of money, and when I'm in a difficult priority situation and I'm going to choose between spending it on the challenges I see in Health-Norway today, and using it to pay back costs in 2007, my priority has been, within the framework, to spend the 150 million. kr as I suggest here, and not as the representative would have liked.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e662	I noticed that the Council of State said that there was still a problem in 2007, and I hear it so that the Council of State recognizes that that problem needs to find a solution. That means, and that is what I would like the Council of State to confirm, that the RHFs have a commitment to the private ideals in the same way as they have to their own enterprises, and ultimately that means that it is the Council of State that recognizes that this obligation is there and that it has to be fulfilled. Is that a proper understanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e667	What I'm saying is that I'm aware that this pension obligation is straining the equity of the private institutions, and I'm aware that it presents them with challenges. I don't want to close my eyes to that, but sketching what can be the solution to that challenge, I won't do now. The solution may well be to say: well, the burden on equity must be met. I can't see that there's any point either for the representative's salary that I have to make a clear conclusion about death and life now. Now let me live with this challenge for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e672	I choose to take it positively that the Council of State at least does not say that it is not going to speak at all to look at it any longer. It's actually insensitive to some of these institutions, it's the equity situation that's going to be so difficult, and especially I know Bergen Diakonisse home. I don't know how the equity situation is everywhere, but it's clear that you have to solve it for all the hospitals. But it's actually so precarious that they're in danger of using so to say their entire equity, and it's a terribly difficult situation to get into. It was found 500 million. kr to the public hospitals in ageing. I agree with the Council of State that 150 million. kr is a lot, a lot of money, but I wish maybe you'd found a little bit for these institutions up there too. I choose to take it positively that the Council of State is very aware that there is a strain, and hope that he may come back and help find a solution, preferably within the framework of the regional health companies, under which these few hospitals sort out. It's not that many of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e681	I have nothing more to say than just explaining that what has been the most important thing for me, and which has had the highest priority in me so far, has been to solve these challenges for the system, i.e. in relation to what happens in 2009, 2010, etc. I believe that the arrangements we have made for 2009 establish an understanding of how pension costs, pension contributions and, if necessary, their gap are to be managed in an economic context, and that includes the private ones. That's why I'm happy to have done it, and then I think it's very good that I get the opportunity to work a little further on the second issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e686	The positive with this proposition and the setting is that today we get to the table 500 million. kr to hospitals – they need it. This means that the deficit will be reduced by 900 million. NOK -500 million. So SEK is going to be 400 million. kr. But I have just read in the newspapers that one of our major hospitals tells us that they only get 100 million in November. kr of additional deficits, and also other hospital units report the same. So my question today is, as new figures are flourishing, at least in the media: Has the Council of State got, I was saying, new information that can tell about new under-languages in relation to what is in this proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e691	No, we have no predictions other than what has been announced The Size of this proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e696	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e701	I fully accept the Government's response, that he will have this for further observation and see what he can do to help solve the problem for the private ideals. This government will, of course, present a draft budget, and in this context I hope that something that has the character of a solution will be traceable. When I asked for the word, it was just to have the small conversation with the Council of State a little step further in terms of this change in course. The problem, at my discretion, is that if, in very large letters, you proclaim a change of course and repeat that message quite many times, while at the same time, at the same time as the specific governance tool is available, namely the state budget, there are no very clear indications that there is a correlation between the declared intentions and what is actually being done, you create a credibility problem. Of course, it's a risk sport to span the expectations very high, and I have the feeling that the Council of State is good at tightening the expectations very high, when he talks about his reform to come to spring. Then, of course, there is also a significant risk of being disappointed in some of those expectations. I'm not going to re-examine the discussion about the time perspective on this, just remembering that if the current government had taken the ball where it was when the government took over, namely, after a completed hearing after the Wisløff Committee's interaction investigation, and led it further from there, the Storting could probably have presented itself in good time during the current period of time the reform that the Council of State now has to define as an urgent matter. It would have been an advantage for the government as well as for the Storting. For what is now the problem is that if the Council of State comes to an end in April with the investigative work he is conducting, the Stortinge will not be able to deal with it in the current period. It'll go a pretty long way into the next period before you want something to relate to at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e712	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1690]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e728	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1692]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e744	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1692]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e760	I'm not going to open up any major debate. I just want to say that in the budget proposal is one of the things that are being financed, the protection of Skardsfjella-Hyllingsdalen. That is what we are voting for today, despite the fact that there is a significant extension of the protection that was adopted in 1992 by the Stortinget. I think it is right of me to explain why the Progress Party is voting in favour. This is because, in a letter from Solheim in connection with the case, we have been given a guarantee that the amount of protection we wanted had cost exactly the same, and then it is clear. So it's not a support for the increased protective size. It was supposed to be prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e769	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1694]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e787	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e805	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e823	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e842	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e860	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1696]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e880	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1696]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e900	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1696]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e920	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1696]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e938	Export finance is owned by 26 commercial and savings banks and the state. The State at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade became the owner of 15 p.m. of the shares in 2001. Export finance is intended to finance the export industries and through the subsidiary Kommunekreditt Norway AS to provide loans to municipalities and county municipalities. The company also manages export credit schemes on behalf of the State. Export finance uses its good creditworthiness — up to now — to obtain favourable deposits in the international capital markets. This makes it possible to provide competitive financing to Norwegian export industries and their customers as well as to municipalities, county councils and other public activities. Export finance also manages the OECD-regulated agreement for publicly supported export financing on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. This was adopted and is already regulated in the St.prp. No 108 for 1977-78. The Guarantee Institute for Export Credit, GIEK, guarantees a large proportion of export credits provided by Export Finance. GIEK offers guarantees for long-term export credits and cooperates with, in addition to export finance, several national and international banks. Export finance is the largest individual customer of GIEK for long-term guarantees for export credits. Export finance is a central provider of competitive financing to the Norwegian export industry. Until the summer of 2008, the company’s high credit standing made it possible to obtain loans on favourable terms in international capital markets. Developments in capital markets in the autumn of 2008 have made it more difficult to obtain long-term loans. The activities of Export finance require that the company has access to long-term deposits. As a result of the situation in capital markets, customers in export finance have been granted loan commitments since the end of September 2008, subject to access to long-term financing. Lack of access to long-term loans in the international market meant that the Board of Export Finance prepared that customers would have to be informed that a loan stop would be put in place in a short time. As export financing from sources other than export finance is currently very difficult to obtain, the importance of the company offering export finance is more important than ever. In order to ensure that Norwegian companies will continue to be offered financing export contracts qualifying for State-aided loans from Export Finance, the Government proposed that the State should offer Export Finance loans under specific conditions. Again, the Government has presented a package of measures. Again, the Stortinget has unanimously followed up the Government's proposals. Once again, government parts show that we have tools in the toolbox. Even though we are in a serious situation, and the challenges ahead are great, I insist on saying good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e961	And once again, the government shows that it's going to be in deficit all the time. It forgot the representative of Klungland to say in his list all about the excellence of the Government and its own policies. We agree on this package; this measure is agreed by an overall committee. However, we note that representatives of the opposition began to address the issues related to export finance as early as the end of October, and then the tone of the government was that the bank package they had presented was the solution, also for export finance. So it has obviously gone up for the government in retrospect that it alone would not be enough. This package has then been brought to address the challenges of export finance. I just notice that once again the government is in deficit in a situation where we are in a financial crisis, and where one actually needs to act quickly to solve some of the challenges facing Norwegian business. I just want to draw attention to some of the comments made by the Progress Party in this position by the Finance Committee, and specifically addressed to the Norwegian fishing industry. We note that Norwegian fishing industry is also facing major challenges in the coming years due to the global financial crisis. We have also mentioned the same issues there in the past, added to the Minister for Fisheries, and have again received a response that it was this banking package that came on 12 October, which was supposed to solve the challenges, while it is now clear that there are other things that might have to be done, and that at least something must be put in place in the package announced in January/February. The Progress Party believes that the Government should be much more co-ordinated and integrated in the measures it adopts. Here it seems as if you're trying to solve some challenges all the time, rather than sitting down and getting some problems solved together. That's our criticism. We feel that in many ways the government is not responsive to what comes from business as well as economics, and not least to what businesses are asking for in terms of framework conditions. But on the other hand, we're obviously happy that we can get a solution to this right before Christmas. However, I have some doubts as to whether this will probably also be in relation to export finance, but that will show the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e976	I will take the floor after hearing the articles of the Party of Advancement. We know Export finance as a company that has private owners, with the exception of a modest public partnership that was central to ensuring a better rating for the company. The company sent out an exchange notification on 18 January 2008 which reads as follows: «Export finance collects SEK 1.2 billion in new share capital from its owners. The background to the issue is that the company has unrealised losses in its liquidity portfolio. In addition, the company has experienced record lending growth in 2007.» In public vocabulary, there has been little focus on export finance, as opposed to Terra Securities. But as far as I can see, export finance was the company that first met reality in the form of a need to raise NOK 1.2 billion in new capital. When I then heard the comments of the Progress Party, I think that one had stood by having a slightly more humble attitude to the behaviour of the authorities, as we are facing a company that has been on a journey that has fortunately led to the replacement of both the chairman and the managing director. As a result, the company has made significant efforts to address maritime criticism of their situation. It's central. But then I think you should have a slightly more modest attitude to the behaviour of the authorities. The authorities have, through what is being discussed here, and have been presented by the Government, taken more than responsibility for correcting the situation. I almost expected the Progress Party to say this, that we are here – in contrast to the former, with the policies of the Progress Party – facing an active state that is willing to participate in clearing operations in companies that have done a bad job in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e988	Let me first thank you for a very good cooperation with the Finance Committee and the Stortinge in this matter, which has been dealt with in a very short time. This is a good example of how government can play together when time demands it. A little bit about the debate we have had so far: from my point of view, I believe that the state has very well followed up the responsibility we have as a partner in export finance. I refer not least to the Storting decision earlier this year to participate in an equity expansion and also to participate in the portfolio guarantee of up to NOK 5 billion that the owners have given to Export Finances. There are measures that have helped to ensure the soundness of the company and that have been solved by the ownership community. The debate we have today, and the decision that seems to be that the Stortinget will – and I am pleased to say this – be about the company's access to loans in order to secure export credits to Norwegian companies, related to how the financial market works in today's situation. I am very pleased that a unanimous finance committee is in favour of the Government's proposal to provide government loans to the Export Finances ASA. It is of great importance to maintain a functioning so-called 108 scheme in the current situation. It is of great importance when access to market alternatives is low for the export industry. There is no doubt that the agreement made by the Government with Export Finance, on which the Stortinget will decide today, ensures that Norwegian export companies receive the necessary export financing. It undoubtedly contributes to ensuring jobs and activity in many parts of the country. I notice that parts of the opposition – here I exempt Left, which I see is not in it – especially the Advance Party, which I heard in the post here, but also right in the comments I have read, accuses the Government of a lack of ability to quickly perceive the seriousness of the situation. I must say that sometimes I wonder what lies behind the statements that come, especially from the Right and Advance Party, in this matter and a number of other issues that concern many packages that the Government has put forward to deal with the demanding situation we are in. What I think is more interesting, however, is to hear what they're talking about, seafaring means, what business thinks about, for example. the proposal of the Government, and on which it appears to be widely disillusioned, on export finance. Let me quote, for example. Director Knut S. Sunde of the Norwegian Industry, which represents not least many of those who are directly affected by what is here on the table. He said when we presented the solution, after working day and night with Export Finance, that ‘The government has understood our priorities, and they have delivered the goods. That's why I'm happy with the government's efforts this past week. I would like to stress that the situation of Norwegian exporters of capital goods was critical. As a result of the turmoil in financial markets and the lack of access to long-term loans, export finance was in a situation in which they saw a need to alert the end of loans if the situation did not improve. Without access to export finance, it would be very difficult for many enterprises, including the in the oil and gas and maritime industries, to win new contracts. In a situation where financial markets do not function as normal, it is particularly important that the State contributes to the stabilisation of the framework conditions for Norwegian business. Therefore, I believe that the government has acted both quickly and purposefully during this autumn to assist the companies in a difficult situation. One of the most important things we have done is to ensure that businesses have access to finance. It is essential for them to be able to make initial investments and to finance their exports. The bank package, to which the Storting has joined, the expansion of equity in the Municipal Bank so that there can be more loanable, the extension of the general guarantee scheme in GIEK by up to DKK 50 billion to DKK 110 billion, that Norway's Bank, as everyone knows, has now reduced the interest rate many times, and many other things, are most measures that will help to mitigate the negative effects of the turmoil in financial markets. As is known for many years, export finance has managed the Norwegian export credit aid scheme, the 108 scheme, and has a strong competence in this field. By continuing to manage the state-aided credits, export finance ensures stability for Norwegian exporters of capital goods in an otherwise uneasy time. Then it has been important in the negotiations with Export Finance to indicate that this agreement has been achieved as a result of very special circumstances. Therefore, special dividend rights have been granted during the contract period and wages and other benefits have been restricted to the management of Export Finance. The Government will also notify the agreement between the State and Export Finance to the EFTA Surveillance Authority on a maritime basis in order to ensure that it complies with the State aid rules in force. As a result of the agreement, a preference share will also be issued to the State that, among others: will yield dividends of 22,5 pst. by the basis of dividends, which are further defined in the agreement. In addition, the State must also approve proposals for dividends on the ordinary shares as long as that loan relationship exists. This mechanism, with direct deposits from the treasury, is an exceptional measure which it is desirable to liquidate as soon as the market operates normally. The conditions attached to this preference share will contribute to it. I would like to thank the Stortinget again for the very rapid treatment and good cooperation both in this matter and in other important matters that we have had during this autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1019	Just pretty short. I believe that the Council of State would stand by thanking the Storting for rapid and effective treatment and good cooperation — and stopped there, and not initiated a polemics in relation to what she calls ‘parts of the opposition’. There is no disagreement about the conclusion that the Government drew, and here I share the views that have emerged, also from business itself. That discussion has been about, is the government's ability to act when needed. Let me then remind the Council of State that she was already notified of the critical situation in Export Finance on 12 August. Export finance had to wait in October for feedback from the department. And November 6th, Export Finance writes in a letter to the Council of State: ‘We informed the NHD v/State Council on 12 August that the situation of export finance was worrying and that the company would need increased state support in order to fulfil the role of the company as a supporter of the Norwegian industry and the municipal sector. The situation has deteriorated significantly in October.» It took the Council of State almost four months to conclude on how to strengthen and support export finance in the critical situation that has occurred. That's what we've been criticizing the Council of State and the Government for almost dragging their legs before drawing the final conclusion. I would like to stress that the conclusion is good, it has full support from the Right, but I think it's getting a little messy when the Council of State hits its chest and boasts that you've acted quickly and effectively here – you don't. On the other hand, the Storting has done so. We dealt with the matter in less than 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1033	I actually think the Brustad Council should show a little greater humility and a little less arrogance in the time we're in. The opposition has been very constructive in all the packages presented by the Government. I say as the representative Sanner, that's the time, when they're here, and how little coordinated they've been, as we've criticized. In fact, it is our task as opposition to criticise the Government when we see that there is something to criticize, and we have supported the measures that have come. With regard to the bank package of DKK 350 billion, it was amended after consultation of the financial committee with the stakeholders, so that it applied to a larger part of the banks – now it may not have worked properly, even after that. But it was the opposition that came about, not the government. So there's actually a need for the opposition. The State Council of Halvorsen said yesterday that the Progress Party and the Right did not come up with constructive measures in the context of the financial crisis. I expect the Council of State to show a little greater humility when she comes to the pulpit later today, and that she does not initiate the same process that we have seen in the media to an increasing degree, where self-satisfaction is very high. In fact, the opposition has been very constructive in all the measures proposed. So I expect it from the Council of State. It is only to be remembered that with regard to this package of measures to be included by the Government in January/February, many of the measures discussed there have been presented in the Progress Party's alternative government budget. So if we talk about constructive solutions, to mitigate the financial crisis and to reduce unemployment, many of the proposals in our alternative state budget, which many economists have also said is the best in the time we are in, are the budgets that have been presented. So I expect a little bit more humility and a little less arrogance by the Council of State, the Halfvorsen on the pulpit here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1044	I would like to repeat what I said in my main post, that on behalf of the Government I greatly appreciate the cooperation with the Stortinget and the fact that the Finance Committee has dealt with this matter at express speed. Because that's the situation, and I thank the Storting for that. So I just want to say, in the light of the last article in particular, that none of us have questioned the importance of the opposition. Obviously, it's important. We are also concerned about – when it is natural, such as for example. in this case – to be able to cooperate, and we are pleased that there is such a broad support for such an important action. However, what I tried in my speech was to respond to what I perceive representatives of both the Right Party and the Advance Party have said from this pulpit today about how quickly we have responded to the challenges that have been. Then it is to say to the representative, Sanner, that with regard to the meeting with the export finance on 12 August, it was about things other than what was up-to-date in the autumn and winter, after the financial crisis had started with full weight, also with us. For example, I want to do this. Recalling that export finance in the first three quarters of the year had a high growth rate and was able to raise more money from the international market than in the same period last year. So there was no immediate threat to the export credits when we met in August. After we found out how critical this was, we acted very quickly. I am very pleased that the Storting has also done so, and that this matter will be resolved, so that we can jointly secure jobs around in large parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1055	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1696]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1071	In the government's proposal on the new aging for 2008, the structural oil-corrected deficit is set at 72.7 billion kroner this year. There is a reduction of 4.1 billion kr compared to the estimate in the 2008 national budget. At the same time, the oil-corrected deficit is reduced by $28 billion, to $8.4 billion. New information on tax revenue has been provided in 2008 following the completion of the 2009 national budget. He told us that the state's income from taxes and taxes can be adjusted by NOK 3.7 billion, which has largely caused an increase in the back-up tax from business. Many of the explanations can be found in good economic conditions. The downward adjustment of the structural oil-corrected deficit in 2008 means that the budget for the current year is slightly less expansive than foreseen in the 2009 national budget. The lower use of petroleum revenues this year leads to the corresponding expansion of the next year’s budget. More up-to-date figures for the structural oil-corrected deficit in 2008 will be presented in the government accounts for the current year. Since the Stortinge adopted the budget last fall, the oil-corrected deficit on the state budget is reduced by DKK 28 billion. To a large extent, this decrease in tax revenue from the mainland economy comes to NOK 33 billion. A substantial part of this amount can be returned to good cyclical conditions. It is unbelievable that the net cash flow from the oil business in 2008 has been adjusted by NOK 111.1 billion. The final amount is now set at NOK 412.9 billion. A main explanation of the adjustment is the higher petroleum prices this year, much higher than that foreseen in the aged budget. After the oil-corrected deficit in the State budget has been covered by transfers from the State pension fund – abroad, the fund will have a net amount of DKK 404.5 billion this year. The interest income and dividends in the State pension fund are charged at NOK 84.2 billion. The total surplus on the State budget and the State pension fund are therefore estimated at NOK 488.7 billion. Since the last budgetary procedure, the size has decided to increase the expenditure of the 2008 budget by DKK 1.3 billion. Then interest, day money, petroleum and loan transactions are held outside. The three main expenditure items are compensation for VAT to municipalities and voluntary organisations, supplements to regional health professionals and additional allowances as a result of increases in the number of asylum seekers. At the same time, there are proposals for a reduction in expenditure in a range of areas. The largest savings are found by reducing the allowance for the purchase of climate allowances, reducing the contribution of the State Pension Fund, and reducing the rights for the expansion and operation of kindergartens. It is pointed out in the Government's proposal that the newly aged budget could differ from the final account. It has to be seen in the context of uncertainty as to the level of consumption on the regulated expenditure arrangements, tax and tax revenues and the level of leases transferred from 2008 to 2009. The Government proposes that an authorisation be granted to extend the guarantee frame under the Export Credit Guarantee Institute, GIEK, by DKK 50 billion, to DKK 110 billion. This change is necessary to enable enterprises to obtain funding from banks and other financial institutions. The scheme benefits not least the shipbuilding industry. State instruments in the field of export finance are particularly important in times of financial instability. World financial market turmoil has made it more expensive and more difficult to obtain loans and guarantees in the private market. In such a situation, EVERYONE will play a key role, and the company must have the financial framework necessary to meet the demand. Innovation Norway has a low-risk loan scheme. The scheme is mainly used by small and medium-sized industrial enterprises, for financing within the fishing fleet and in agriculture. There are particular business players in the West and in North Norway who make use of these loans. For several years, the lending frame has been SEK 1.5 billion. In mid-November this year, the frame was used up. The government has therefore proposed that an increase of DKK 1 billion to DKK 2.5 billion be granted. An additional extension will be added to the new year. Strengthening both by GIEK and by Innovation Norway are important measures to improve the competitiveness of the business world. The media can be clearly targeted. Representatives of the world of work and industry have our unparalleled support for the proposals. In this setting, the representatives from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left claim that the new age should not be a budget rematch. Of course, I agree with that. Nevertheless, there are proposals from the same parties for extra funds in some areas: continued road and rail investment planning and an increase in the interest-rate compensation scheme for school buildings and church buildings. In addition, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are on a tax proposal where a request by the Government increases the depreciation rate of machines and equipment. It is difficult to imagine that these measures could be implemented during the 13 days remaining this year. In the budget setting, there is a majority for the Government proposal at all points. In the vast majority of cases, the plurality is clearly solid. The party of progress depends on the traditional course. For years the lot has been marked by very expansive suggestions, as well – I draw them – during the treatment of the effusion. This is certainly the case for 2008. The party sums up the additional expenditure on its draft budget to approx. $21.2 billion in addition to the government proposal. The main items relate to the cancellation of tolls for toll companies and health businesses, the maintenance of municipal buildings and roads, investment in health professionals and extra funds for minimum pensions for Christmas. The proposal from the Progress Party is very comprehensive and goes far beyond the adaptation of the permissions to be included in the new aging process. It is not realistic that the Government will be able to use the funds for its purposes before the New Year. The procedure chosen by the Contracting Party goes far beyond the regulations of the Government as being in force. That's where it's called. the promises shall be «based on realistic estimates of expenditure and revenue». If the funds are not used in the budget year, they are normally lost. The remainder goes back to the treasury. At the close of the current year's budgetary procedure, I would like to make a few comments on the specific challenges we are facing. The size has established an expansive budget for 2009. The government has warned that a fiscal policy package will be presented in the month of January/February to meet a weaker economic development as a result of the financial crisis. Now is not the time to discuss the device and the scope of the action package. We get plenty of opportunity to come back to that in the new year. However, I would like to stress that the warning package must be seen in conjunction with a number of other measures that have already been notified, adopted or implemented. The financial crisis is by its very nature both complex and extensive, and it hits the economy in many ways. It is therefore necessary to deal with the crisis with a wide range of instruments. It is important to ensure that the different measures support each other. The government party believes that the most important thing in the fall has been to make the financial markets work and bring down the borrowing rate. A liquidity crisis that means that businesses and consumers do not receive loans will lead to a halt to economic activity. This is why a number of measures have been put in place to prevent this. Extensive exchange arrangements for the banking sector, a strong increase in the guarantee framework for GIEK, a strengthening of export finance, an extension of the loan framework for Innovation Norway and a larger loan from the Municipal Bank are examples of highly targeted measures. Norway Bank has in the past seen down its interest rate three times. Money market interest rates have fallen sharply in recent years. It's very positive. Nevertheless, there is no basis for printing any new messages for financial and credit systems. This is an area where developments have to be closely followed and new measures taken when necessary. I am very pleased that the Financial Committee, in its decision to re-balancing the State budget for 2008, says: ‘The Committee would point out that, if necessary, the Government should act quickly and take corrective and complementary action under the scheme so that it can deliver the best possible results for the most likely of the banks, and thus their customers.’ The members of the Financial Committee of the Progress Party shall state that they: ‘registers that the Government has come reluctantly with so-called emergency packages, for example: the financial and export industries’.» There is a comment that is definitely not accurate. It is my opinion that the Government and the Minister of Finance have shown both the will and the power of action for a very demanding time. The Financial Committee and the Stortinge have, through its management, been committed to a very rapid and effective treatment. There's every reason to be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1131	Once again, we have a proposition regarding the ageing of oil which shows significantly less oil money use than what was originally adopted and which the majority thought was just right a few months ago. The consequences of this are that there could have been more to investment-related measures and a reduction in taxes — without this going beyond the rule of action on which the majority is protected. This significant reduction in oil money consumption means that the 2008 Progress Party's alternative budget was also within the framework of the action rule. All the criticisms we met in the budget debate for approx. One year ago, this fell on stone floor. In view of the new forecasts and the figures shown by the recent ageing process, the Storting now has a golden opportunity to make important priorities for which the majority did not find room at the time of the adoption of the budget. In the context of the 2008 ejaculation, we believe there is room for a great deal of grip: The Progress Party is concerned about the burden of debt incurred by regional health businesses. When health enterprises have a large accumulated deficit at the end of 2008 and owe large amounts of loans to the country, the economic space of regional health enterprises is very limited. The accumulated deficit causes liquidity to be squeezed. Debt elimination is essential for regional health businesses to be able to manage both debt control and liquidity-satisfying. The Progress Party therefore proposes through the downturn that the total debt to the State be reduced by DKK 2 billion. We also propose an additional allocation of NOK 1 billion for investments in health businesses. It is high time that the police's crew crisis was taken more seriously and that new jobs were put in place immediately. There is no doubt that the situation in the police would have been much better if more financial resources were allocated. It is also of great importance to address the huge slowdown in investment in equipment and vehicles for the sector. This is precisely why the Progress Party is proposing to strengthen the police action by over 100 million. kr. The government is talking about helping those who have little. But talking doesn't help anything. Many people with low incomes have tough Christmastime because the money doesn’t stretch. In these times when the financial crisis gets all the attention, we must not forget those who do not end up meeting and who have experienced this situation long before the financial crisis occurred. The 2008 state budget is expected to carry a surplus of NOK 489 billion. This provides room for action against poverty in Christmas 2008. That is why the Progress Party proposes that disadvantaged people with a tight economy should receive an extra NOK 2 000 before Christmas. The benefits are targeted at those groups currently receiving minimum social assistance benefits, disability benefits, minimum pensions, rehabilitation benefits and re-employment benefits. In this position, we are also promoting proposals of 20 million. to non-governmental organisations to strengthen their efforts for the poorest. The poverty problem has been heavily debated in recent years, and all the parties in the Grand Duchy have been concerned about this. I record that despite this commitment and intentions of the Red-Green Government's statement by Soria Moria, the conditions for the poorest in Norway have not improved. I would like to point out the good work done by many non-governmental organisations, perhaps especially during the Advent and Christmas season. The Poor House, the Church's City Mission and the Salvation Army are examples of this. It will be possible to create a more pleasant Christmas too many through an extra grant to such organizations to enable them to arrange Christmas events for those who do not see themselves able to do so. The Progress Party will therefore allocate 20 million. for distribution between non-governmental organisations holding events for the disadvantaged during Christmas, providing for the distribution of gifts etc., and asking the Government to ensure that this money is distributed among the organisations. There is a strong increase in the number of road projects in Norway financed by the fact that toll companies have borrowed money in the market and then implemented road projects. In addition to the above, several toll projects have been designed and ready for launch. These loans are served by paying tolls for the use of the completed road or where the road is planned to be built. Most of the projects are completed, while others are under construction. In addition, it has also been decided to implement part of these projects. Common to all is that this money has already been used or tied to the project. On the basis of the mismatch between the total fees paid from the drivers and the use of funds for road purposes, we believe that there is a basis for cancelling the debts of the toll companies and exceptional appropriations for the projects already decided to be financed by toll collection. So to another important side of the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting through the recent ageing: it is national and international economic turmoil. The financial crisis has also hit Norway and is expected to hit harder next year than most could predict a few months ago. Norway has financial muscles other countries can only envy us. So let's use the possibilities we have to combat high unemployment, while at the same time getting the investment we need. When we look at the recent ageing figures that the state economy spends less money than foreseen in the budget adopted for 2008, the time has come for the size of the new age to also allocate funds to measures to meet the economic downturn. The Progress Party therefore proposes DKK 5 billion for concrete actions, which are divided as follows: We suggest NOK 3 billion in maintenance funds for the municipalities, so that the municipalities can clean up and restore municipal building mass. These are measures that can be put in place quickly and have a strong positive impact on the demand in the construction market. Furthermore, we propose 2 billion kroner to highways and to the county roads. We want these funds to be an exceptional appropriation for important initiatives in the transport sector. In this way, the slowdown in the maintenance of national roads is also prevented in 2009 and at the same time an important contribution is made to the construction industry where companies lack jobs that can ensure profitable operation and related jobs. There is no reason for the Storting to sit passively and wait for the Government's announced plan of action in the month of January/February. Storting has a golden opportunity through today's treatment to grant funds that can be used in the economy before Christmas and in January. The central bank yesterday lowered the control rate by 1.75 pst. This shows that Norway’s Bank takes responsibility for the Norwegian economy in a difficult time. The Bank of Norway assumes a responsibility that the Government has so far not taken. As you know, the government is waiting to take the most necessary measures specifically aimed at the construction industry. Even with these proposed additions and debt cancellation proposals that I have explained, the Progress Party will nevertheless use almost what the Government and the majority of the population thought to be sound in dealing with the state budget. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party included in the position of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1167	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1172	I have registered in the media that the Progress Party has recently said that Gedrem must act because the Government is holding its hands in captivity. It cannot be understood in any other way than that, in the opinion of the Progress Party, Gedrem would lower interest rates if the Government had followed the desire of the Progress Party for crisis measures earlier this autumn. The party of progress has first and foremost asked for tax relief. It must therefore mean that the Progress Party believes that measures taken by the Government under the direction of the Progress Party would reduce the room for interest reduction, thereby indirectly saying that they give priority to fiscal policy measures in favour of interest reduction. Then my question is to the Progress Party and Ulf Leirstein: Is it so to understand that the Progress Party does not prioritize what has happened in the reduction of interest by Gedrem? Does that not mean more than early crisis response in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1181	If the representative Alf E. Jakobsen had read what was the reason for the fall in interest rates in the Bank of Norway yesterday, he would see that the government's submitted and adopted government budget for next year has not been given very many words. The international financial turmoil and outlook for the Norwegian economy next year are the major challenges, which means that Norway’s Bank actually chooses to reduce its interest rate sharply, and may also choose to lower its interest rate further out of the new year. That means that with the government's policy, interest would go down anyway, and I'm glad. What has been my criticism is that I think the Bank of Norway should actually take into account an extraordinary interest rate meeting and bring this measure a few weeks ago. But I'm glad it's come into place now. If the measures proposed by the Progress Party had been adopted here today, fewer would have been unemployed. And we hadn't gone into a Christmas season when very many people are concerned about their work, if we had given the necessary funds to the construction industry. In the plant sector, we have seen that the unemployment rate has increased by 98 pst. the last time. It tells me that the alarm clocks should start calling more people than the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1188	We see that the Progress Party is promoting very wide-ranging proposals that go far beyond the adjustment of the appropriations for which the phasing-out is initially intended to take account of. It's to live with. But there are some of the proposals the Progress Party is promoting, I have problems taking seriously. How does the representative of Leirstein see that it can reasonably be used for the operation and maintenance of highways from today until New Year? Does the representative of Leirstein see an alternative gospel of Christmas where an army of road workers will descend from heaven to pave Norwegian roads in the Christmas weekend?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1195	That was an interesting question. Let me try to give you a concrete answer to what you're actually looking for. If you read our proposals, you'll see that these funds are made transferable for next year. The point is that if we had granted money to the construction industry now, rather than sitting and waiting until the month change of January/February, the state road service and others had been given a clear signal to start the design process, also in the days before the Christmas holidays started, and they would have started already in January with further design. Now you have to sit and wait until the month change in January/February to see what money is coming, and then you have to start planning. Not least, the Storting should also deal with this package of measures – and it has not been done in 24 hours. So this is running out in time. Now we have the opportunity through the effusion to actually adopt some additional appropriations, which the Government is most likely to join in anyway in January/February.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1202	There's nothing new from the Progress Party; it's the same recipe. If Stortinget had followed the recipe, the fall in the Norwegian economy that we are now experiencing would have been even greater. The insecurity of the many would be even greater, we would have gotten even harder. At a time when we need security and community with solidarity in terms of income and wages, tax on ability and public investment to correct the market, there is nothing new from the Progress Party. Is it not soon that the Progress Party should re-orient its policy? Isn't it true that one should say that one was wrong when one believed in the maritime regulating markets? Is it not the case that a priority must be given between what is most important: government budget appropriations or tax reliefs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1209	With all due respect for the representative Lundtigen, I had hoped that he had actually seen what the Progress Party has been proposing for months now. Lundtigen claims that with our policies, more would have felt insecurity, and the problems would have been even greater. If the policy of the Progress Party had been adopted, an average Norwegian would have had between NOK 5000 and NOK 10000 in tax reliefs next year – NOK 5000 to NOK 10000 more to be used in its own private economy, which would also have contributed to ensuring retail trade. If the policies of the Progress Party had been implemented in the Stortinget, significant billions had been allocated to the construction industry for the next year, so that very many of those who are sadly experiencing a job vacancy in the construction industry, and who will be licensed and cancelled next year, could get rid of it. It is precisely with the policies of the Progress Party that Norwegian jobs could be safeguarded and that the decline in Norwegian business would have been significantly less than with the course of the government that the representative Lundtigen supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1216	First of all, I would like to say that the representative Lundtigen is quite right in saying that the opposition, and especially the Progress Party, should stop flying around and refer to the government parties as arrogant, when one is not willing to admit errors that are so obvious – when one has believed in the self-regulating market and the liberal forces of the world, as this harvest of those degrees has proved not to be the solution to the world's challenges. I would like to ask the representative, Leirstein, since it is now Christmas and we are about to go into an election year: Parts of the opposition have, in many ways, stretched out a hand to the Progress Party in this new ageing debate. For the first time you agree to increase the appropriations late for Christmas, because you think these are extraordinary times. Despite this, the Progress Party has chosen to put itself on a very separate line in economic policy, with some budgetary solutions that are a little special. Should not the Progress Party now take the opportunity to meet the other bourgeois parties, when they also propose increased appropriations in the new era? Or has the Progress Party simply realized that life as a lone wolf on the civil side will also continue after the 2009 elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1224	I appreciate very much the concern of the representative Micaelsen for the civil cooperation, and I expect that he will give full support to the fact that there will be a government shift next autumn, where you can really put this cooperation into practice. In fact, we in the Progress Party are promoting the proposals we believe to be right in the situation we are currently in. I am very pleased that the other opposition parties are also using the new aging process to promote some new proposals that are very dear to the difficult economic situation we are currently experiencing. That means that we agree on the direction, and then we disagree on how big a step it is necessary to take. I am very pleased that the bourgeois parties – the opposition – have moved in the same direction both through the budget debate, through the ageing debate and through the packages that have arrived. I am very pleased about that, and it is a good signal to the voters, considering that we can get a new and manageable government option next autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1231	If the representative of Leirstein had heard what I said, he would have heard that my point was that the fall in the Norwegian economy would have been greater if the Progress Party had reached the Stortinget, than it is now. The reason for this is obvious: the Progress Party has always said that one should have more tax relief and thus more private consumption, one should have more public investment – one should therefore have even more work than we have had, one should set the limits further. When the international financial crisis comes in, it makes sense that the fall had increased, the uncertainty had increased. It's good we've led a more sober economic policy than the Progress Party has been up to all along, and they're still not willing to take a centimeter of maritime criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1236	I would like to see evidence of what Mr Lundtägen claims that the case would have been much larger in the Norwegian economy in the coming years if the Progress Party had implemented its tax reliefs. In fact, the Progress Party believes that tax relief will work the opposite way – people get a better economy, a more robust ability to serve their loans and their purchases. It would help to maintain a certain degree of consumption, so that, among other things. The retail trade, where we have very many thousands of people employed in Norway, would not face an equally uncertain future. The party of progress has faith in that prescription. And then to the markets, which both the representative Lundtigen and the representative Micaelsen are very concerned about. I've had the pleasure of sitting on the Stortinget for three years. All the issues we have had in the Financial Committee that go on regulating the market in Norway, in the financial sector, etc., have been unanimous and have been unanimously adopted in the Stortinget. The way we have established the market and regulation in Norway is unanimous, so trying to construct a disagreement in this area falls on stone floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1243	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1246	It could have been tempting to take up the thread with what terrible things the self-regulating markets around the world have contributed to in our home economy, but I'm going to be careful to comment a little bit of what we might be able to do here at home on the problems we're actually facing. The balancing debate and the ejaculation have never been any venues for the big rematches and new budgets, and it is still on the right, even in this setting. We promoted in our alternative budget proposals for measures that could increase the activity of the construction sector, and not least the tax austerity imposed on Norwegian businesses for a very difficult time. That billions of tax incentives are right medicine now, I'm surprised that someone at all means. But there might have been a need for new budgets. The right, and others as well, have called for faster action and more resolute action by the Government in the current crisis in the real economy. We will be open to discuss all the good solutions that can help remedy the situation that we now have. We are ready to do it quickly, we have shown that in the committee, and we believe that it must be done quickly. But it is primarily the government that is responsible for the coming of the proposals. More than ever, the government is responsible for government. Now it takes too long to get the decisions out. We are making three concrete proposals in relation to ageing. We are proposing an increase in planning funds of 200 million. kr, for planning is now one of the most central. As an example of this, I point out that the Architectural Companies are now saying that the vacancy there has increased by 6 pst. since April. They describe quite precisely the situation in their last edition of the Technical Weekly, saying that ‘builders who want to build do not get loans, and private developers cannot afford’. The only way to get out of this is to have a crisis package immediately, and that January/February is too late. Then the engineers and architects will be working in March/April, and the builders and contractors will not work until after the summer vacation. The same applies with the loan framework and favourable loans to municipalities to clean up school buildings and other municipal buildings, a framework that we increase by NOK 3 billion, and increased depreciation rates for machines – a tax relief. One relation to this position: the banking and loan market still does not work well enough. Following the initiative of the Right, the entire Committee has gathered on a note commenting on the problems in the banking market in relation to the treatment of the package of measures by the Stortinge earlier this autumn. In this note, the Committee agrees that adjustments will still be needed. We underline what is being said in the Inner East. S. No 12, the need to be ‘considered on an ongoing basis’. It is also underlined that the Government must act quickly and take corrective action to improve the functioning of the banking market, not least for customers, who are the ones to maintain all the jobs. There is no doubt that this market is not working. That is why I believe that this comment is an important nuance from the Committee. There will be daily reports of loan drying and bank lending refusal, and there is evidence of action to try to address the problems. That's why I got a little worried yesterday, and so far also today, when I hear that the positioning parties punish the banks not to lend money. The Chairman of the Committee punished the banks yesterday. LO – without any relation to our work – does the same today. It is therefore believed that it is the responsibility of individual banks that the banking sector is not working now. I think you should be careful to press the private Norwegian banks – and that is to a large extent everyone – to make financial arrangements in their banking operations that are not well thought out. In our social model, we have largely private banks, and they have a responsibility to run responsible and profitable. Then they can't be forced to borrow, as I understand you're now saying from the position. We have decided in this room how to deal with the companies you own and control. It shall be accountable to a government. You can't make arrangements that put both the interests of society and the interests of the owners at risk. This is a very strict piece of legislation for this. I believe the banks are following this up. I don't think you can solve the banking problem by looking for scapegoats. But I see that it is difficult to find measures. But the ball and the care for this is undoubtedly from an overall committee added to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1270	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1273	I just allow myself to take a little historical summary in the case of the fall and the Right Criticism of the Government, which has essentially gone out to suggest that the Government is dragging its legs, too little, too late – and the whole package. Let me then remind you of Right History after this type of financial crisis broke into Norway. Before the government budget was presented, the Right called for a neutral budget. The parties followed the situation and provided an expansive budget. After a while, the Right Strategy changed and thought we should have an expansive budget. However, in the alternative budget presented earlier in the autumn, the Labour Party, SVs and the Central Party's line in budgetary policy was put forward at the same level. And now in the new aging debate, the time has come to say that you need $300 million. extra kr, so that the planning capacity can be maintained at the Rome Christmas in the various floors. So you have to be a member of the Right Party or the Advance Party in order to believe that people in the municipalities, in the state Vegvesen and in the railway works are now sitting and drumming with their fingers and have nothing to do with. Of course the signals are sent out. What is the fleet's assessment of his own credibility when he criticises the Government for these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1284	The trustworthiness of the right in economic matters is as always good. I think the voters know that. Firstly, these means, as we are proposing, are made transferable – so that is now the discussion. Secondly, we've changed the strategy several times this fall -- not least what we put in our ordinary alternative budget, to say it like that. It is the representative of Micaelsen and his party and the cooperation parties that have a problem in that they do not adapt quickly enough to the changes that are coming. There should be no change in views on economic policy and monetary policy from August to December – in what is a earthquake in the international and Norwegian economies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1291	The opinions of the Right yesterday after the interest reduction have made me a little uncertain about what is Right Policy. Is it the case that the Right's policy would have led to a lower interest rate reduction than what the Governor did yesterday? And is it that Right wants a lower interest rate reduction than what the Governor did yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1296	The President will ask the Svein Fleet to take up the proposals during his reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1300	Let me first take up the suggestion of the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left. As far as interest rates are concerned, it is quite obvious that no one had foreseen what this situation would be like. After all, Norway’s Bank said yesterday that further growth in public expenditure is now being taken into account, by the fact that the package that has been advised and to come is within the bank’s consideration. I believe that the question from the representative Holmås about whether our budget should provide a lower or higher interest rate is of very theoretical interest. Things change very quickly here, and the relationship between fiscal policy and monetary policy must work well. It really hasn't worked well enough, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1309	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1312	I think the representative Fleet said that in a simple and real way: the right has changed this autumn's strategy several times. It's not just the Right that has had to look at this differently, even in the government parties, a sailor has to look at it differently. The fleet says the problem is that one has not responded quickly enough. There may well be different assessments as to the extent to which you have reacted quickly enough. But it reacts, and it reacts in a direction that – with what the Fleet now says – is building in relation to what we are facing. What I also want to say about is what's happening in the banking system when it comes to taking up the accelerating recession. It is quite central that equity and earnings are becoming more important, and that banks must try to combine their own situation with their social responsibility. I want to know if the Fleet doesn't agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1321	When banks operate their business according to the principles, laws and rules that apply, taking social responsibility involves, and I believe that the banks do. When the representative Lundtigen talks about a change in strategy, I would say that we have made proposals both in our ordinary, alternative budget and otherwise. Governments and government parties boast that they have presented a number of credit policy measures, but there has been consensus in the Committee and in the Storting about it. But what budgetary measures have been taken? There's going to be something in February, and we've criticized it, it's too late. It supports very many in Norwegian business, who are waiting for solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1328	The right refers in a note in the vote on proposals for tax reliefs in its alternative budget. So after the financial crisis, the right has called for tax incentives to reduce unemployment. The fact that the Right is too tax-free is old new, but now they propose the same measures they promoted last year as exceptional measures. That's what they said from the right. However, there is a broad consensus that tax incentives have a much lower impact on employment than, for example, tax incentives. expenditure increase. Now, statistical central agency has calculated that 19 billion DKK in tax bills will provide 2,500 more jobs, while if one spends 19 billion kroner for public expenditure increases, it could provide 40,000 new jobs. Why, then, do Right Taxation as a crisis response require, when it obviously has a greater impact on employment to increase public expenditure? Does that mean that you in the Right are not really so concerned with the employment and employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1337	Tax relief or the removal of austerity is an excellent tool for both stimulating employment and stimulating ownership and setting up businesses. But right in the situation we're in right now, taking away the tax scarfs of ownership is one of the most important things you can do, because it takes care of Norwegian businesses. It may also contribute to the existence of some Norwegian companies that do not go bankrupt — all of them do not, but some will be able to go bankrupt. If the burden on the owners is lower, tax relief could contribute very positively. They say that the right always thinks that tax relief is the solution. Yeah, really! In a lot of contexts, it's the solution to a lot of business problems. I am amazed that a party like the Workers' Party, which will take care of the jobs, does not see it in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1346	I would like to follow up on the answer to my previous line. Then it became clear that the Right does not know about their policy would lead to a different interest rate setting, and that is all right for people to know! The other thing that the fleet didn't respond to was if he really wanted the interest rate cut that came yesterday to be less. Does he think it shouldn't be that big? Would he prefer it not to be so big?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1353	I really don't understand the question from Holmås. It's perfectly obvious how our alternative budget influences the interest rate at Christmastime, it can be hard to say anything about. Similarly, it is even more difficult to say something about how the original budget of the Government will turn out. I think our wishes in terms of interest might not be so interesting in this context. We want the governor to follow Norwegian economy well, and to lower interest rates as much as he thinks he should. Yesterday, the governor said that it was necessary to reduce the interest rate sharply. We take note that he then feels that the government of financial policy has not done his job, and that is why he has to do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1360	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1363	It's amazing that the Right, who has thus criticized the Government for its own policy every time interest has risen since we took over, suddenly does not have a sense of where it should be, whether it's good or not that it goes down. And when, in connection with the interest rate meeting yesterday, the government was accused of being tame, and said that the governor is acting when the government doesn't, but then the day after and isn't willing to defend such a position at all – that's Svein Fleet – I'm a little surprised. Because we have been very clear on our part in the budgetary discussions and debates as the financial crisis and its consequences turned out. First, the impact on the Norwegian banking system, which we managed through the banking package we came up with, and later through packages linked up with different banking institutions and other guarantee funds, at the latest in the case that we dealt with earlier today. We did that first, and then we put forward an expansive budget. We did that two days before the Right was first out and wanted a neutral budget, which would lead to a huge tightening in relation to the budget we provided. Then there was uncertainty, and now later the party comes up with proposals that are more expansive. In other words, the right has had a shift in politics over the entire period of time that we have been accused of. But we've always said that we would first put forward the expansive budget, and then we wanted the interest to go down, because it was the business and the social partners that were very clear before this, that interest had to go down, and then we've notified that we want to get to a package of Christmas that is just analysing the situation, showing the whole picture and giving us the overview of the labour market. Then we will implement the measures that are both best suited to solving the financial problems and, from our point of view, are also suitable for resolving the climate crisis and the climate problems. We are in a situation where we have several crises, some of the short-term nature and some of the longer-term nature, which require longer-term action. But it's the employment that's at the heart of us, and that's what's going to be the most important thing about the package. But first we wanted the interest down. That's what was important to us. The balance of the budget is for all parties other than the Progress Party, first and foremost, a place where we re-prioritize. We take the consequences of the changes that we have seen have been necessary during the year, and make those changes. We are very pleased that we made changes and made extra appropriations in the university and higher education sectors – I think it was absolutely necessary for it to be put in place in the ageing process – but we are also satisfied with the others. And most of the parties agree. The right has promoted some very specific suggestions here that you think it's very important to get started right now, not because you think people are going to spend that money between today, which is December 18th, and December 31st, which is the last day of the year, but because you want to make this work for next year. That's okay. We have said that the proposals that the Right has made in this context are proposals that we have previously announced that we will be considering until January/February, and I do not think that the timing of this is going to be decisive. I do not believe that the Right view, but they want to get this in place now. That's all right, but we want to take this as part of a whole package. Then there has been criticism from the opposition – and it is new – that we are uncoordinated. I'm a little surprised about that. Because I believe that we have been very clear on the part of the government parties, both in terms of the order of these things, and in terms of the package of measures that we have come with. First we were to deal with something that had to do with the banking system, then we were to look at situations when they started, and we were to get interest down, and then we were to get an overview of the labour market and take action in this area in January/February. And so far, I can't say anything but that we're following that pattern. The measures we've come up with follow the pattern we've set, they follow the plan we've set up. Why then come up with criticism that this is uncoordinated, I think is very strange. But it's possible that other opposition parties can spend more time than they used to explain how they think we're uncoordinated. On the contrary, we are so co-ordinated that when we come up with these proposals to the Stortinget, they go through almost unanimously in the Stortinget as well. And then I want to spend a little bit of time on the Progress Party, because I think it's a theme that you have to deal with in a little bit of a proper way. There is now an advertising campaign in the newspapers, with the trade union and the organizations of the poor, which points to how the situation is now for a good number of people who have poor advice, who live with little money, and who have a financial crisis every day, as they say. I fully agree with that. That is why, in the budgets we have submitted, we have taken action in particular in relation to social security. We have raised the lowest social security benefits, we have raised social assistance to some extent – and there is no doubt that we have a desire to get even higher in that area from the SV – and we have also ensured to expand the housing support system so that there are 50,000 new people under it, because we believe it is targeted and good action to lift people who have the worst advice. But in addition, there is no doubt that when we come to that crisis package, that package of measures must be designed so that it is precisely the people who are most vulnerable in terms of working life, the people who have the worst advice, who are in focus. But to the Advancement Party: I remember when I was little, my mother and my father warned me against lurers. They said they would like to offer candy, and then there would be horrible things with me if I followed them. When we look at the budgetary work of the Progress Party and the draft budget for the Progress Party, it is the Progress Party that is the lurers of our time. When they in the budget propose 20 million. To the organisations of the poor and to the Christmas of the social welfare recipients and the minimum pensioners, there are, in isolation, sympathetic proposals. But it is not related to everything else that the Progress Party does in its usual budgets. If we go through the budget and look at what their policies would lead to, they will see that they cut so that there would be 16 000 fewer people who would have had the disability. They cut out the entire qualification programme, which is our government's most important act to lift people who are long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, out of the bad economic situation and into the labour market instead. It just cuts out the Progress Party. In the system that ensures that people who have lived in this country for a short time should not have to go to the social office every single month and burden Nav – who already have a challenge – kisses the Progress Party several tens of millions and, in some cases, hundreds of million dollars on the case handler side, so that they would have fewer people to receive more people coming to the social office. This has led to more uncertainty for those people who have lived in Norway for a short time and who would thus have to become beneficiaries of social assistance. It's the progress game. Cutters and Cutters. And what do they write in their own budget, in the labour and social budget: they believe that the government's work against social dumping has led to a halt to the wage struggle in Norway. What does that mean? They believe that the low-paid people who work here in Norway should have low wages. That's the whole problem. The problem here is that they have too high wages. The work against social dumping has ensured good wages for people, and that is the Progress Party against it. So the Progress Party is using budgets to cut budgets for people who are in a bad state, they are cutting for people who are unfavourable, they are cutting for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, and they want a deregulated market economy, which, in our opinion, would clearly have led to a much harder financial crisis in Norway – as it has done elsewhere. Then comes Christian Tybring-Gjedde. I have to admit, we were a lot of people at 5 p.m. 22.46.37 on November 27th, which wanted to take the floor after Christian Tybring-Gjedde had made his statement on how fantastic he thought the United States was and how amazing all the systems in the United States were, when we just criticized how the lack of regulation in the United States had created the financial crisis that now hit us all in a very rough way. He says, "What's the matter with this welfare state that's so good?" What makes us have so much to brag about here in Norway? he asks. Do we have so much to boast about health, education and the level of knowledge, and about integration? Do we have so much to boast about the Americans? Actually, I don't think so. What about our justice policy, or our defence capacity? Now I just came from the United States. When I talked to people there, I experienced, for example. that the driver of the taxi who drove there, due to the downtime, had less in the driveway and had to cut out his health insurance. I felt that people I knew over there had lost their jobs, and they were going to lose their health insurance at Christmas. There they have a system – a system that obviously more prominent representatives of the Progress Party want to move towards – which, for tens of millions of people, today is already 55 million, means less security, less well-being, less solidarity and more left to the market economy. I was in a radio debate with Christian Tybring-Gjedde about the housing market. He was very ready. He believed that if people living in the city now felt that they were being hit by the huge rent increase, people should be moving out of town. Yeah, well, move out of town. It is the Security Policy of the Progress Party. There is no security for people who have bad advice. It's great for those who have good advice. The party of progress is the lurers of our time. I think it is necessary to take action and deal with it when, therefore, a proposal is made in which the Progress Party is later on as if they are on their side with poor advice, contrary to what they otherwise stand for day and day in the real policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1395	There was a lot I could get hold of here, but I intend to do so in an article later. I thought I would ask about the interest rate, since Heikki Holmås believes that it is the government that has the credit for the interest rate going down, because they laid out a weakly expansive budget initially, and that this is something Gedrem understands now, and then he puts the interest rate down. But then Stoltenberg at the same time announced that he would start a billion bet in January/February. So we're talking about 2009. So this budget, which is weakly expansive, will only work for 30 days, and then in the remaining eleven months, billions more will come. Then the logic must be that Gedrem sets up the interest rate when all of these billions come. And because the budget was slightly expansive, it becomes more expansive, and then Gedrem has to set interest rates up. It's quite obvious if you take credit for your interest rate falling. So the interest rate is zero in the United States, and then the interest rate is less than 3 pst. in all our neighbouring countries. Does the representative Holmås think that the Government can take credit for the fact that the Norwegian Bank has reduced the interest rate? Will he also take criticism of the 15-16 times that the central bank has set up interest in the previous three years?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1406	There is no doubt that the low-interest policy that has been pursued over large parts of the Western world, which Alan Greenspan has also commented on, has contributed to the financial crisis that we are in, for example, it has. contributed to a housing bubble, real estate bubble and a security bubble that now hits us hard. I'm ready to say that it's the government's policy that has contributed to high employment and the lowest unemployment of 20 years, and that's clearly one of the main reasons why interest rates have risen during the period we've been running. At the same time, it's not true, as Christian Tybring-Gjedde says, because we're presenting a package in the new year, interest rates are going to go up then. On the contrary, when looking at the economic outlook for the next year, both the Statistical Central Bureau (CB) have used its calculations, and the President of the Central Bank, in his reasoning, has assumed that an expansive package from the Government is expected to contribute to an increase. So interest won't go up again until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1415	I think the self-satisfied attitude that Holmås and the government parties are putting themselves on today, impresses very few outside this hall, and definitely not those who are about to lose their job. However, I will ask Holmås to stop spreading falsehoods about what I have said and what the Right stands for. It is not that the Right has called for a neutral budget, but we called for a budget to be provided that contributed to the fall in interest rates. That being said, of course, we have all said things in September/October before the world was turned upside down, which does not stand today. Let me then just remind you that the prime minister of an article went out in Stavanger Aftenblad on 1 October and said: therefore there will be no crisis in Norway. This discussion is totally meaningless, and it does not impress anyone. Then at the interest rate. In fact, yesterday the Governor said that once interest rates have been fixed, fiscal measures had been taken into account. So it's not right when Holmås says that interest reduction had to be applied before fiscal measures could be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1426	I don't want to contribute in any way to give the impression that I'm self-satisfied. I'm saying that we're in a really bad situation. What strikes many others out there, is that the right seems very self-satisfied in the way they handle this. It is difficult for me to contribute to the decline of the Right's self-satisfaction, but at least I will contribute to the fact that on our part we do not appear to be so. Because I think we're in a very serious situation. But I really believe that Jens Stoltenberg was right in saying that the banking crisis we saw in the United States would not strike us and hit us in the same way as in the United States. I also think that we now see that the way we have been affected by the banking crisis is different. But we have always been very clear that downtime in the rest of the world means downtime also for Norway. When they stop producing cars in the United States, that means they also stop ordering aluminium parts from Norway. We've been aware of this all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1433	After Heikki Holmås has been on a mission in the United States, I realize that we can expect more from that edge when it comes to saying what preferences you have for the economic systems in this world. Now, SV has not always had preferences that have been shown to be equally successful through the history of the party either – it should probably also be included in this image. It was interesting to hear the interest rate policy description from the representative Holmås. It was almost as if he had planned when the state budget was presented, that Norway's Bank would set interest rates at the end of December at 1.75 p.m.. I would say that there is more to it than that we are in an economic situation that this government had not in any way foreseen when the government provided its budget. So my question is simply: what, in the opinion of the representative Holmås, is the reason why interest rates are now set so sharply?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1440	The reason for the fall in interest rates is the prospect of a significant decline in the global economy. We put forward an expansive budget because we thought there was going to be a decline this year. As things developed, everyone agrees that the downturn – due to the financial crisis, because of the Lehman Brothers’ passing over the end – has become much more serious than everyone imagined. But the question is, when we first stand in that situation, how do we deal with it from there? This is when we are very clear that we only now – because it was a collective working and business life that wanted it in its input to the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister – gave clear notice: let the interest rate go down first, because it is the most important thing to get the engine going, get the loans up, make the housing market work so that people can get loans to meddle – and then we can bring a crisis package that is adapted to the rise in unemployment. And that package comes in January/February.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1447	It is particularly important to note that the representative Holmås comes under attack at the Progress Party and claims that the poor in Norway would be much worse off with the policy of the Progress Party – that is, this comes from a representative of a party who said that one could remove poverty in Norway with a pen stroke, which the Minister of Finance chose: I think it was quite many poor people in Norway who had great hopes when the red-green government offices took over. But none of these people today can say that they have had a much better working life – but poverty is not eliminated. But now leave that debate. Let me focus on one proposal that goes on this, namely the 20 million. kr The Progress Party proposes to non-governmental organisations providing assistance to the poor – the poor that the Government itself has not been able to help. If this proposal is as sympathetic as the representative Holmås expresses it, why not vote in favour of it every day – a proposal of 20 million. kr – when the state economy has a surplus of DKK 489 billion in the current year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1454	We had a discussion about the budget for 2008. It's a little bit special. I guess Leirstein didn't think that these 20 million. kr would be used up from 18 December until the new year – in other words, there is a discussion in the budget for the next year. That's why we introduced an increase to those organisations that work with the poor, because we think that's right. We have consistently strengthened the organisations of the poor during the period we have been sitting, as opposed to what the Progress Party did in the previous period when they entered into budgetary settlements with the right parties. There was never any strengthening of the organisations of the poor then – really never – while we came to power, we said that we are dependent on having organisations that require us all the time, who hold us responsible for all the work we do to eliminate poverty. That's why we've given them more money to operate in a better way. If one notices what the organizations say, they are satisfied that they have had a strengthened situation. They are pleased that they have got more money to run their recordings and to run their constructive criticism of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1461	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1464	It has been interesting to hear the representative Holmås’ description of the planned economy that the Government has set up during this autumn. It strikes me that an interest rate reduction has been seen as the only important first, before fiscal policy measures beyond what was in the 2009 government budget could be introduced at the beginning of October. In retrospect, I don't think there's going to be so much imagination to see that the order should be the same, but the intervals of a completely different character. And there were actually also some parties that suggested in their alternative budgets a slightly different arrangement based on the situation we saw, and that changed dramatically in a very short time. It is also the case that most other countries have implemented significant measures, including budgetary policy, long before this government intends to do so. Then we are pleased that, at least, it is announced that we will come back in January/February with budgetary policy measures, even if any proposals have been rejected so far, including possible decisions that could be taken in the Storting today in connection with the current year's budget. It is true, as the chairman of the Committee said in his statement, that this is not the time and place to promote the most extensive changes to a budget that has a maturity of around 14 days from now. However, it is still possible to give a few signals that can contribute to the fact that there is something that can happen without delay until we get a crisis package in January/February, which is actually to be treated here on the house – but the effect of it will not come until long after that. There are, as mentioned earlier, a few areas: interest compensation for schools and church buildings, which is being increased — a proposal we also had within our alternative budget for next year — and road and rail planning. In addition, we have a verbal proposal relating to depreciation rates, a proposal that several of the parties in this government already felt a good proposal when the election campaign was at its height three years ago and well that was a good one. So it is going to be put to the vote today. – Before I forget, I take up our suggestions, as they are in the setting. Well, given the aging, the proposition itself, it's probably just one suggestion that indicates that we're on our way to a new era. Overall, the 2008 accounts will look pink on all fronts. All numbers will show that there has been a jubilee, except for one number, as the government suggests session. Wage claims related to bankruptcy are raised by 100 million. kr. That might be the first signal, the first effect, we're now seeing of initial redundancies and increasing bankruptcy in business. I would like to say that the interest cuts we have had from the Bank of Norway, of course, underpin the seriousness of the international financial crisis that we are experiencing and that is now entering the real economy. At the same time, I have to say that this from the position to a little too much, I think, is used as a reason why no action has previously been taken on the real economy, which is the responsibility of the Storting and the Government. That argument is now beginning to be abandoned, fortunately, because if it were to continue, it would prevent you from taking full responsibility. In the current situation, I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance on how the credit market works better. One thing is that we are now losing jobs – that's bad enough – because demand is falling, not least from an international business that doesn't demand our goods to the same extent as before, another thing is if jobs fail simply because businesses and businesses don't get the necessary credit for healthy investments. It is tragic if it happens, and unfortunately in many cases it is irreparable. If the credit goes in three months, it will not help much for a company that will have to close the doors tomorrow – not because you are really in an unhealthy economic situation as such, but because you do not have the necessary access to credit, which you would normally get. I would like to hear how the Minister of Finance assesses that situation, and how the Government will follow up on it in the future. Finally, I just want to make some remarks about the proposition. In higher education, an increase of 160 million is proposed. kr. It is said in the proposal that higher education should be strengthened and the basic appropriations allocated to it. This is done at the same time as it is known that this sector will run for less next year due to increased compensation of employees and increased pension requirements. It is incredible to me that a red-green government, after the cease-fire debate we had one to two years ago, once again dares to provide such a weak budget for this sector in 2009. Of course, if it is the case that something has been planned in the crisis package or in the revised national budget, it is good, but there is no – none at all – continuity in budgetary policy towards such an important sector, where something to correct what was done last year is to be done. This is the way to ensure that this sector has a reasonably foreseeable framework. It is simply unimaginable that one has wanted to be silent about such a treatment of such an important sector over so many years. Then I would like to comment on the proposal we have in the vote, where it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible to ensure that institutions in the field of drug treatment and child protection, operated by non-profit-making actors, are given long-term operating arrangements enabling them to maintain a good quality offer to their users and operate under a long-term and predictable framework.’ The immediate background to this proposal is that the ideal children's protection institutions in the West now need to close down due to the tendering policy that this red-green government has been at the forefront of. We notice that we are not alone in this criticism. The urban governance groups in Bergen, from the Workers' Party and SV, have sent letters to the government parties: ‘We have no sense that child protection youth should be a commodity, and we cannot understand that the provision of child protection is in line with the red-green policy.’ Before the 2005 elections, it was the grandmother who was not to be invited — child protection children and drug users would like to be invited under this red-green government. In the case of drug users, this means that the non-profit organisations no longer have agreements. We get a less differentiated offer to some of the weakest groups in society, and it happens with the blessing of this government. You haven't wanted to intervene at all, and it's also spreading around in child protection. It's incredible for me to see that the red-green government that talked about political will for change before the previous big shots sits still and looks at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1494	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1498	This government has come up with the right tool in good time, so whether the representative Syversen and others repeat again and again that it has not done so, it will not be more true for it. The representative of the Seven referred to other countries’ efforts in relation to the financial crisis. However, Norway has introduced more measures than most other countries have done in this period of crisis — despite being less affected than the other country is. But that wasn't my question, it was just for the information of the representative Syversen. In the setting, the Christian People's Party proposes to spend 200 million. on the road and collective action. This is 200 million. kr is on the 2008 budget – so there are 13 days left until 2008 is over. My question is then: What are the Christian People's Party's measures that they think they can implement for the next 13 days?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1507	First of all, Eirin Sund says that this government came up with the right measures in a timely manner. It is a perfect description of its own perfection, which now also the representative Sund demonstrates through this reply. I would say that if the red-greens in retrospect did not see that budgetary policy could have been put on the track earlier, I am greatly surprised. Norway, like a few other countries, is in the situation that we have instruments that we can put in place and that can help make the crisis we see as small as possible within the borders of our country. Yes, there have been measures against the credit market, export finance, GIEK, etc., but budgetary policy measures have been very small. Any good proposal has been rejected in this way. With regard to the means of planning that we have prepared, they can be transferred, so that at least there should be no vacuum until the government finds it too good to promote its crisis package.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1518	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1521	Today's ageing shows that budgets and accounts are two very different sizes this year as they were last year. Last year, the difference between the aged oil-corrected budget and the new aging was NOK 51 billion. This year, it's about 27 billion kroner. So we're in a situation, as a result of, for example, increased tax revenue, where Norway has come out far more favourably than the budget. I don't think I'm a great fortune-teller when I say that for 2009, too, there will be a big difference between what is aged budget, which we've been through earlier in the harvest, and the new aging that you'll have a year later. There is reason to believe that the recession that we are entering is likely to be as dramatic in terms of budgets as the boom that we have now experienced, with the large differences that existed for 2007 and 2008. What is really challenging today is that the power of recession is accelerating. Few today say something about when and where there will be solid ground under the feet of a number of exposed industries. All banks assess risk in their loan portfolio, and when the capital adequacy is so low and there are small provisions in relation to future losses, banks will rather reduce than increase their balance sheet. This is a heavy impact on the real economy, and I think few have an overview of the consequences of the fact. We have government capital requirements in the banks, and it is now to hope that they will prove to be in both good and bad times. Here comes the test. It would be difficult to be a banker. The authorities shall lay down the framework. We're responsible there. The government has followed up well, so the bank manager is going to practice. One of the appeals I want to make to the bank managers is that one is facing a government that has first and foremost security and social contracts, and that is, in relation to other countries, there are more opportunities in Norway to provide security for housing and work, and thus one as Norwegian bank manager can take some other judgements than what someone else would have done. This will also mean that the return requirements previously imposed by banks on their own capital need to be adjusted down and that they also take their share of it. Something else will not be understood. The challenges we face are, in the view of the Centre Party, that we need to understand more clearly why we have come into such a deep international financial crisis. That it's a different sense of reality is real, but let's look at the reality of why we're there. In the view of the Centre Party, there are major reasons for the situation that the international focus has been on the maritime market economy and the freest possible coverage of capital where there should be no bulkheads in the economy, which can be seen in practical industries such as: shipping. One does not build boats without a shot. A builds up physical constraints to ensure stability in the real world. Similarly, it is in the economy. One has to have restrictions to ensure the necessary stability when there is a storm in the economy. I said earlier this week that history will characterize the causes of the financial crisis with the words experiments that had to give instability and great fluctuations, because they were driven by greed. The responsibility of the performers was powdered. Leadership had final packages that could stimulate exit strategies. These are key elements of the Central Party's reality understanding of where we are now. If we look at what we're going to do in Norway, we also need to look at what are the international challenges. The international challenges are now linked to three areas. In addition to the financial crisis, we have a dramatic climate crisis, and we have a food crisis that develops every month. All three crises have the power to create significant problems around a number of countries that are less economically disadvantaged than Norway. In our behaviour, we must have these international perspectives with us. What we are doing must have a clear focus on how it can contribute positively to the climate crisis and the food crisis. In remedying the situation, Norway, as mentioned above, has a greater capacity to take more long-term considerations than other countries with less financial autonomy. We have a surplus on the state budget. We have a surplus on the trade balance. A set of measures must be used, for all instruments have their limitations and weaknesses. It is difficult to understand the functioning of society in the current international crisis. Therefore, the Storting should take more time to understand the functioning, thereby obtaining a cant and in order to be able to force action. There have been approaches to a common – what to say – activity from the Stortinget in several cases. I hope it can continue, so it won't be a cheap party political game compared to what we're currently facing. But it's obvious that one has to have a more active state in the future. It was gratifying with the interest rate reduction that we have now experienced. At the same time, on behalf of the Central Party, I would like to say that it is necessary to pause the interest rate reductions in order to see how the other measures will work. A low-interest policy in the sense that borrowing money has its clear weaknesses and cannot be put in without a serious fact that is even greater than what we are now experiencing. I think the authorities should communicate clearly that when the US economy has an interest rate of close to 0 – yes, even referred to as a minus – it is such a clear sign of a country and an economy in crisis that few have seen it more clearly before. There can be no measure in this room that we're going to have the lowest interest rate possible. It's an economic situation that I hope we don't experience, in the sense that we're going down to the level that Americans have. In the case of tax policy, individuals make up figures for lower taxes on individuals. I think one then should think about what will be the consequences of it, and what opportunities one has to increase Community funding at a later stage, when we are in a situation where it is the community a must bet on – and the community must have its funding through taxes according to the ability of each of us. The government has said that it will go through taxation policy in the context of business. That's something we're very happy about. Here it is necessary to look at and use a tax policy so that you can take into account the challenges we are facing. But I would ask the Minister of Finance to hold on to the principle that there should be a link between the tax depreciation rates and the industrial impairment. It takes a lot more to get away from it. There are many changes that can be made within the principle established by the Government, namely better consistency between the tax depreciation and the actual impairment that is out and going. With regard to the expenditure side of the State budget, there is now a touching consensus that one should have a more expansive fiscal policy. We're happy about that. The question is, what are our priorities? We in the Centre Party are pleased that a priority should be given to upgrading and maintenance in the municipal sector, upgrading, maintenance and improvement in communications, whether it be fairways, quays, track, road or telecommunications – all central investment objects. I would also like to point out from our side the need to take the energy crisis internationally seriously and thereby focus on energy supply, renewable energy. Obviously, a responsible government must also focus clearly on labour market measures for those who are now being informed of a difficult situation on a daily basis. We also need to focus on the necessary transformation of business, such as: will require us to go through the framework conditions for small enterprises, so that more small enterprises can come up and take over the role of enterprises that are now facing a difficult situation. And we need to have a shift away from the dependency that we now have on oil and gas, to a more versatile business. It has to pay off with long value chains in terms of energy. Much attention has been paid to banks and their equity. There has to be a pragmatic view of it, while in the Central Party we are very clear that if the state has to go into the equity of the banks in different ways, then the state has to take care of it so that one can be on the side of the bank situation when we have overcome the crisis. Finally, public ownership policy is central. It is strong to experience that public-owned energy companies today make such a large demand for return on equity that one does not put entirely obvious investment projects in the development of river power plants in March, for example, that I have in my county, Buskerud. It is a responsibility for those who sit on the boards of public companies, now to tone down their demands for returns, to show social responsibility and to invest, not least in energy, which must be an obvious sensible measure. It is expected that everyone will contribute with their opportunities. Something else would be very little wise in the situation we're now up in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1565	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1568	Let me start by saying that I agree with Lundtegen on one point, and that concerns the fear of excessive loan-funded consumption. There is something that the Right has warned against for a long time, and that is why we have also been concerned with savings-stimulating measures. On the other hand, I am a little surprised that Lundteg argues so strongly against tax relief, especially those who have proposed too low and common wage incomes. A common argument against lower taxes is that it helps to increase savings. In that sense, there should be a measure that Lundtigen could support. Then I will challenge Lundtägen in connection with his contributions to the financial debate, where he showed some understanding of the fears of the bourgeois parties that increased taxes on wealth and inheritance would drain the companies for equity. Lundtigen pointed out in some ways the effects of the Government's tax increases could be mitigated. Is there still a position at the Centre Party, and will we continue to work to mitigate the effects of the harmful tax increases adopted by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1577	I am pleased with the question of personal tax. It is quite obvious that a number of people will receive lower incomes, and for them there is a lot of talk that the taxes should be reduced. At the same time, perhaps those who are not affected by the financial crisis and who have high, secure revenues, lower petrol prices and lower interest rates, thereby increasing the ability to pay the tax bill to which Jan Tore Sanner is invited here. I follow the reasoning of the representative Sanner – he has to take the consequences. In the case of property taxes and inheritance taxes, what we said in the financial debate is in the Central Party. I know that is a work that the Minister of Finance is following up, and it is going to send out a regulation on how this is to be implemented in practice. As I was talking about then, one of the grips is which capitalisation factor is to be used. The situation is different. A higher interest rate should be used than previously indicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1591	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1594	It's in many ways a very paradoxical situation The Storting is today, when we treat the effusion. On the one hand, we have a kind of big-time championship in which we understood the extent of the crisis at first and made good suggestions. On the other hand, we treat a new age that tells of such a wonderful year for Norway that it has never been possible to see her husband. Compared to the budget we adopted for the current year, we're almost not using oil money in the state budget, because mainland Norway is going so great. The myth that we live with, that we live on oil and gas in this country, is in a way rather shattered by this effusion, which tells of a continental economy capable of maintaining our entire vast level of well-being so to speak alone. So it's a happy story, it's a fairy tale of a fantastic economy in 2008, while we're sitting here discussing a crisis that we see coming over us, and as it becomes a bit of a strange debate about who really understood the size of first. I think we're now better off with a slightly different approach to this, towards the fact that it's a major crisis. None of us have understood this extent so quickly – almost fortunately – one could become very depressing if one did not get a little time to understand the extent of this crisis. The country now feels that there is a need for effort, and politicians who cooperate, rather than having such a debate, I think. I'd like to try to contribute to that. I don't want to argue that I have been a world champion in predicting the extent of this, but I still want to remind you that when I stood on this platform on the day the Minister of Finance put forward the state budget, I started by saying that as much as the uncertainty is in the Norwegian economy now, I don't think either of us should be too oblivious of what it is right to do, but be seeking to find good solutions, because there's a lot that we're not quite able to grasp the extent of. I believe the time afterwards has shown that there was a fairly good basis for saying that the uncertainty was great, and that no one should be very sure of what it was right to do. I don't think anyone's been sloppy all along, either. Not least I have to say that I believe the government has of course been unsure about the scope of this and has been caught up in crisis messages and increased the pace of handling. It's in itself understandable. Similarly, the opposition has done the exact same thing in many ways. One gets new news and changes positions, because this has a scale and goes at a speed that was almost impossible to completely understand. I will briefly express what through this harvest has been my and the Left's vision. The starting point was, and I said that already at the time the government budget was presented, that we agree with the tightness of the budget. In any case, under such uncertain circumstances, we had no basis to say that something else was right. I have always agreed that job no. 1 – I think I have said the jobs no. 1, 2 and 3 here from the pulpit sometimes -- is having so much ice in your stomach that we're sure that interest goes down enough before you start doing other things. The government has also done that, and I have given support to the Government all along. I have not indicated at any time that there is a need to start spending on the expenditure side of the government budget until we are sure that we have found a level of interest that stimulates demand in the economy in a good way. I have been critical of the Government throughout the whole fall at one point. I believe that as we began to get an overview of the extent of this crisis, it would have been right to keep up-to-date with the Storting on new forecasts and figures for unemployment and economic growth, etc. I understand very well that the uncertainty was great, and that one would obviously come up with the wrong numbers, numbers that would not be right then either, but I think, despite all, that one had come closer to the truth by e.g.. increasing unemployment forecasts and reducing growth forecasts, in the direction that everyone saw it going. It may also have provided a somewhat more realistic framework for the budgetary procedure itself. Since Stortinget has invited us to spend a very good time today, I want to use the opportunity to give some reflections I have done when I have followed the debate on everything about crisis management and economic policy. What has struck me – I will not be misunderstood when I reflect around this – is that it is almost independent of political position is a very governance optimism and belief in the ability of economic policy to so say to solve all problems. It's now like this, I think most of us have that experience, that good times are followed by bad times, and then, fortunately, good times again. There's something about that after day comes night, and, fortunately, after night comes day again. But there are many who in this course have been concerned that only we are doing the right things in economic policy, we can cancel out such things as that. It's a little daunting, because I think it can create some sort of expectations about what you can do through economic policy, which I think can be dangerous. And then I'm not saying that one shouldn't do much, and what one can, too much can one do, but one can't do everything. There will be a significant increase in unemployment in Norway, and there is no means of doing anything about it. It's beyond the scope of politics, and we have to admit it and talk about it. It's only when that reality is on the table that we can agree to make a lot of sense, which could help smooth out and reduce. I believe that anyone who loses his job is in a desperate situation and demands the attention of society, and it is necessary that we do what we can to avoid people getting into that situation. But we have to be true that in this situation we are not able to prevent many from losing their job. It is not least about the export industry, which has markets far beyond the scope of what we can think of in Norwegian policy, and that is a reality. Much we can do, all we can't do. That is why I would like to express my view that much of the debate is characterised by a very governance optimism around the economy and the ability of economic policy to solve all problems in such a situation. Then I want to give you a few reflections on what should happen now, more than possibly to continue this debate on what should have been done in the last days and weeks as one has taken over all the news. Because what I think is a point to get started is to see if we have the right tools to handle, for example. the financial industry at changing times. It's quite obvious that the banks have been very eager to borrow out, and they really want to borrow out a lot in good times -- maybe too much, and then they overreact, the opposite way, in bad times. There's a reason to find out if we have a code and embedded stabilisers in the code that's good enough to handle this. I will not argue that I am able to follow so much in what is happening in other countries, but I have with interest stopped up a little and looked at what is happening in Spain. This will be done by the other financial committee on an interesting trip in a few weeks, including: to look at these relationships. Spain is in a situation where they obviously have a more turbulent property market, a fall in housing prices and the type of problems they face, than perhaps any other country in Europe. At the same time, it appears that Spain has a banking system that is very solid and is well-responsive to this very turbulence. Spanish banks, as I understand it, have a slightly different code and have built some stabilizers that make that in terms of equity requirements, requirements for provisions, requirements for dealing with difficult times, is a somewhat more flexible, and that might also make that one, in the opposite case, in very good times, then can slow down to avoid going too far. It will be interesting to look at how it works, but from Norway it now looks like, among other things. Spain has legislation that seems to work very well in dealing with banks at a difficult time, and it is worth studying more closely. I also believe that you need to look at other aspects of how economic policy is governed, see if there are other instruments needed to ensure even more stabilisers on other aspects than the financial industry as well in the economy. It's time to learn more instead of being non-slip. So I'm not going to say so much about the expectations of this so-called crisis package, which in my mind might as well be the first revision of the budget. It says something about the fact that we are facing a special year, when the budget is to be revised as early as the month in which the budget begins to work. Because that's what this is about in the so-called crisis package. We are talking about amending the budget in order to create a more expansive budget than one has adopted in the last few days here in Stortinget. I also hope that the Minister of Finance will ensure that, as far as the Ministry of Finance is able, we get up-to-date forecasts of expectations when we get a new document for Stortinget. Because it's a paradox that we're still dealing with the national budget's expectations of unemployment and growth, which are the official figures of the Grand Duchy, and everyone knows they're far from the reality we're facing. There is a lot of debate about the content of such a crisis package. I think for economic policy is probably the size of such a package, the degree of increased expansion, the most interesting. I think that, in addition to an economic crisis, many around Norway will be able to experience a never-ending crisis of expectation. For the government has spent quite a lot of time inviting all of Norway to come up with good ideas about what to spend money for. I read for fun in Bergen’s Official Journal, from my own county of Hordaland, for a three-day period, about what construction projects were now expected to get money to carry out, and quickly summed it up to the order of 10-12 billion kroner. Hordaland is in economic sense, in most economic sizes, roughly 10 pst. by Norway. This means that the local government sector quickly responds to a demand for money in the order of DKK 100 to 120 billion, which they seem to take as a matter of course to receive at these times. Then all the state and the state have to figure out in terms of roads and railways, and the state sector in terms of construction, etc. I would suggest that if we sum up all of this – and strangely, it seems to be a kind of mood where it is quite obvious that we are now getting this money – we are in a hurry to face an expectation crisis that will also be handled. Because it's quite obvious that there's no room for such sizes, even if you're going to have a more expansive budget. LO goes very far, I think, by talking about 30 billion kroner. To be honest, I'm so sober with money that I think the NHO went a long way when they talked about 17 billion kroner. I have difficulty imagining that it is appropriate in such a context to come up with the sizes of which there is a certain expectation. Not least, there should be a spring paycheck. It becomes quite crucial how expansive such a package can be before wage-fixing. I think the Minister of Finance could do well, depending on the agreements she is able to deal with the social partners, perhaps to choose to apply the changes in the budget that are necessary also to other revised treatments, which will be after spring's payroll, in order to be sure that a person is in charge of the great framework of what is to be done and done properly. In terms of what one does on the expenditure side of the government budget to stimulate and create new markets for activity, and therefore new jobs, I don't think that's the basis for the biggest discussions. I think what you come up with from sensible projects, whether it's school construction, refurbishment, transportation – whatever it is now – will be mostly sensible projects. The limiting factor will be to be able to plan and have the projects ready to start activity. Well, that's where the challenge will be equal to all of us. I also have a expectation that the companies, and not least the export industry, will receive special attention. For most of them, there can be no new markets on the expenditure side of the government budget. They need to live with lower incomes and a level of cost that is such that they may need help through the so-called crisis package of the State budget in order to get relief. It is in this context that I believe taxation should be considered as relevant, because it can facilitate the cost situation for businesses in a situation where many will obviously have major revenue failures. It could quickly be about the ability to take care of people – and keep people – in a real way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1630	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1634	Without boasting too much of the representative Sponheim, I often think he – but not always – has a lot to say. Not least, we see it in the challenging situation in which the country is now. He also had some good estimates from the pulpit today. It is now moving towards a choice, and the possible government constellations on the civil side are, to say the least, very unclear. Now that we have a balancing debate where we see that the Progress Party is both adding over 21 billion kroner and, according to its own statements in the balancing debate last year, breaking the line of today's economic system and wrecking most of it, what thoughts does the Left Leader have if the Progress Party, against assumption, would come into position, most likely by using the Right – if it were to go that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1641	I understand that the position would like to have the joy of the dakapo on all my violent attacks on the Progress Party in different contexts over the last year in terms of policy, and the content of politics. I don't think I'm going to be in a lighter voice to that reality, because what I've said about this is firm, but I want to say that in meeting these challenges, what's happened now, and what's obviously going to be the situation next year, I and the Left are going to be very engrossed with the use of money. We don't care about money in the left, to say it like that. I have to say that I shake my head over all those who care about money, and of course I can't take responsibility for those who obviously spend too much money, in a way that, at my discretion, is going to hurt important sizes in the economy, businesses and the balance between the different sizes of the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1646	Lars Sponheim goes very far in saying, and also makes it very clear and completely open, that he essentially shares the government's approach angle to the order and the way we should deal with this. I think that's all right. It's all right to express respect that you mean the same thing. It is at least right to note that we believe about the same thing about how this should be done. It also makes it all right to work on. Sponheim deals with this with the board of directors. He says that there is an excessive belief from all parties in the ability to control this, while he himself notes that one might have to rule in a different way in relation to how markets should be regulated, that is, the banking system. I fully agree that it is one of the things that it is necessary to get into properly to avoid having to face a similar crisis later on. But let me ask a question: is Sponheim surprised at how unstable and how unruly the way we have organized capitalism in the world now has been?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1655	Yes, I am, and I'm startled at how these huge, fast changes can happen, and how much human psychology makes these things stronger, and that it's possible to go so far. It's no problem to look at what's happening, and shake your head over how highly civilized countries have been able to let it grow up entire banking systems beyond all regulation and beyond the scope of the law. So here's a lot. There's a young person there's a need to clean up – obviously – and that's what everybody sees in that crisis. That doesn't mean I'm taking some sort of settlement with capitalism and the market economy. I still have a great deal of faith in the cancers in using it. But it has to be controlled, and it has to be framed, and it has to be helped to work – and I think we might have to help it even more to deliver all the good it can.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1662	I think it was a reflected post that left's leader held. My question is about the price of capital – i.e. interest rate policy. Earlier this fall, Lars Sponheim said that it was the left line that one should have the lowest interest rate possible. After the assessment of the Centre Party, it is an overly rough opinion. It takes too little account of the historical experience that if one makes capital almost free of charge, it leads to a behaviour that goes under the characteristics that the leader of the Left now used, namely to fool with money. Does the Left agree with the view of the Centre that, in the current situation, we have taken a firm stand and that there should be a specific critical situation before one has to go into Norway's interest rate policy where it will pay off borrowing money?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1671	I have been concerned about the question of what is the natural level of interest over time, since I was a student in an agricultural economy at the Agricultural University many years ago. Among other things, I wrote a main subject where I tried to address these issues. What I've been able to figure out was that over time we would stabilize ourselves with a real interest rate after tax of 1-2-3 pst. – in that extent there. I think that's a reasonable level. If I've said the lowest possible interest rate, I guess I think that one at any time should approach such a level as quickly as possible. I think that makes sense. I guess that's about, as I understand it, your governor is now aiming at the decisions that were made yesterday. Then we get to keep the good virtues that we have to go back to ‘setting bread by food’, ‘working is always important’ – and all of this that I am sure of the representative Lundteg and I can agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1680	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1683	I agree with the representative Sponheim that this is a rather absurd situation, because the status for 2008 has been a jubilee in the range of jubilee years. When you stop that status against the Norwegian Bank's main board of directors' justification for the reduction in interest rates yesterday, it says something about how strongly it changes in the world economy, and how important it is to us. We knew that we were going out of an adventurous boom that we need 50 years back in time to find our husband for, and to much lower growth. We had hoped that we could go in for a soft landing, but now we know that it will be a much harder and tougher challenge than what we knew and thought just weeks and months ago. I am pleased that the Finance Committee and the Stortinget understand that I am using my speaking time in this post, because I want to present the status of the work on the financial crisis for the Stortinget before Christmas. I am not going to announce new measures today, but I would like to invite the opposition to come up with their assessments and their views and any concerns about what we should pay extra attention to in the further management of the financial crisis, for 2009 is going to be a demanding year. There is not one measure or one package where we can say that now we propose it, and then it goes over. It will be a demanding year that will require more action, new handling and high preparedness. I am very happy that we have had a good cooperation with Stortinget. It was noticed that we came so quickly with the first package to the banks, that the Storting was so quick to handle it. It gives confidence in the market. There is a lot of what crisis management is now about: doing the best you can to establish trust. Because that's not the money we need, it's the trust that we're largely lacking. We can do something in Norway, but we also depend on what kind of trust is now established in what a lot of countries are doing, in terms of the financial crisis. If I can allow myself to make a small appeal from all those who are actors in the discussion about the financial crisis, it is precisely to bear in mind that you are contributing to a debate that is about creating trust, or increasing mistrust. It's the most serious economic downturn we've had since World War II, which is now raging the world. It is not right to use that term for the situation in Norway so far, but of course we are also affected by the crisis that is international. We can do a lot, but we can't believe that we can offset the effects of a setback that is very serious in the international economy. There is a situation over several years with strong and partly loan-funded rises that have built up imbalances in the economy in very many countries. There are weak regulated financial markets, the development of new financial instruments, the under-estimation of risks in financial markets and the remuneration of managers in some of those institutions that have led them to have a very short-term and speculative perspective on what they have been doing. All of this helps to explain the causes of the crisis we have experienced. In an increasingly globalised economy, the corresponding international regulation of markets has not been balanced. It is on this basis that we have to understand professor and Nobel Prize winner in economics Stiglitz's words that the fall of Wall Street is for market fundamentalism what the fall of the Berlin Wall was for communism. It tells the world that capitalism and the market economy without adequate regulation by the authorities and proper regulation by the authorities provide instability. In the last year, it has been clear that growth is falling both internationally and in Norway. The economic outlook was greatly exacerbated when the turmoil in financial markets turned into a serious crisis in September this year. In a number of countries, the decline in housing and other property prices has led to the need to reduce debt both in financial institutions and in households. Uncertainty about the size and distribution of losses has led to a lack of confidence in international financial markets and to a high level of risk in the money and credit markets. Access to finance for banks and other private actors has become more difficult. Growth in the international economy is now decreasing very rapidly, and faster than the OECD, IMF and others expected just a few months ago. Both the OECD and the IMF made new forecasts in November for the development of the world economy, where the economic activity of the OECD region is now estimated to fall in 2009. Growth is expected to recover in 2010, but the uncertainty is very high, and the economic downturn can be deeper and longer than is now estimated. According to the IMF, i.e. the International Monetary Fund, economic recessions tend to follow financial crises, deeper and longer than other low economic cycles. The weak economic growth in developed countries now also means that those who for a long time seemed to have high economic growth, namely the emerging economies, especially in China, but also in India, have declining growth. As gross domestic product growth slows down, employment growth has fallen, and in some countries unemployment has begun to rise. In particular, in the United States, unemployment has grown very rapidly, but the labour market has also deteriorated in the euro area and in Japan. In a number of countries, authorities have put in place or launched plans for comprehensive measures to address the negative impact of the financial crisis on economic development. The rapid spread of the problems globally has underlined the need for cooperation and for action to be coordinated in some cases. At the G20 Summit on 15 November, it was noted that excessive risk-taking, inadequate regulation in individual countries and strong international infective effects were among the causes of the crisis. It also agreed to launch a process aimed at strengthening legislation, supervision and international cooperation on precisely these problems. The IMF has been given a key role in this work. It is also very important for Norway to be involved in the processes and to make proposals on how to regulate precisely in a sensible way, so that similar financial crises cannot happen again. A number of central banks have provided additional liquidity and authorities have gone in and rescued financial institutions to ensure further operations. The central banks have extended the maturity of loans to banks, reduced the requirements for collateral provision and increased the recipient group for central bank loans. The large central banks have also taken coordinated measures to provide liquidity and there have been coordinated interest reductions. Several countries have established different forms of stabilisation policy programmes towards the banking system. Provisional guarantee programmes have been put in place in which, within a given framework, the State guarantees new bank loans or new loans between banks. Arrangements for the provision of capital to banks have also been established. Emphasis is placed on banks paying for guarantees provided by the State, and restrictions can also be placed on lending growth, on directors’ salaries and on the remuneration of directors and on the dividend policy of participating banks. Participation rates vary considerably between banks and between countries. Governance rates have been drastically reduced both in developed countries and in emerging economies, to historically low levels in several countries. At the latest on Tuesday of this week, the US central bank lowered its interest rate to close to zero. The interest rate has never been so low in the United States before. The central banks also include: The euro area, Sweden and the United Kingdom have fallen sharply over the last few weeks to a level between 2 pst. and 2.5 pst. In recent months, authorities in several countries have announced that they will also mitigate the effects of the financial crisis through various fiscal measures, i.e. State budget measures, and more expansionary policies. But it is not true that most countries have adopted new packages. I'll come back to that a little bit. On 12 December, the Heads of State or Government of the EU agreed on a plan to coordinate fiscal policy action in the EU, with a target of equivalent action. 1.5 pst. of gross domestic product in EU countries. It is the Member States that must individually propose and adopt new budgets if the plan is to be followed up. The Community level shall account for only a limited part of the incentive, EUR 30 out of EUR 200 billion. It is currently difficult to give a precise description of the size and device of several of the packages so far proposed in the EU. Some packages may extend for several years. They may include previously proposed decisions and things that have already been mentioned. At the same time, we strive to get a full overview and information about the content of the details. Therefore, it is difficult to establish a complete status. But let me take examples from some countries: The situation in Sweden is much more serious than in Norway. They expect unemployment at twice the Norwegian level. The 2009 state budget is expansionary in Sweden. There is a weakening of the structural budget surplus at the base of 1 pst. of GDP from 2008. On 5 December the Government announced new measures to have an effect of 0,3 pst. of GDP in 2009. That is a concrete plan. Sweden is among those who have made clear decisions. The United Kingdom is also one of the countries that have made concrete decisions. On 24 November, they presented proposals for a fiscal incentive package which would weaken the budgetary balance by approx. 1 percentage point of GDP. The action package is intended to increase GDP by only 0.5 pst. in 2009, because the main measure in the United Kingdom is the reduction in VAT. In France, new proposals were announced on 4 December – also a fiscal package that will stimulate the economy, but they had a neutral budget in place, so that they still have budgetary incentives below the level of the Norwegian government budget for 2009. The same applies to Germany, which has advertised a limited package. But this package means that Germany, for 2009, overall, comes out roughly with a neutral impact on the economy. The Danish authorities have not submitted fiscal measures. On the contrary, they have said that they will await the further situation, and see 2010 as the right time, but they have a relatively expansive budget. So over to the situation in Norway. For Norway, too, it is clear that the economic image is weaker than that used in 2009. After five years of very strong growth, which I was in the middle of – I remember in 2007 the growth was over 6 pst. – we now know that it will be very low for 2009. In the national budget — and the work on the national budget was completed on 26 September — it was estimated that the GDP of mainland Norway will increase by just under 2pst. from 2008 to 2009. But this was after Lehman Brothers, we knew that the uncertainty was very great, and it is carefully described also in the national budget that the growth could be significantly lower than what we assumed at that time. Preliminary national accounts figures show that growth in the mainland economy has decreased markedly this year. The GDP of mainland Norway increased by 0.2 pst. from the second to the third quarter of this year, and available information indicates further deterioration in the fourth quarter. We see from so-called mood indicators both for businesses and people, that the expectations for next year are pessimistic almost all over the world. We also see that the traditional export industry is struggling with a world market that demands less. However, the decline in total industrial output is dampened by the continuing increase in activity in the parts of industries supplying to the petroleum industry. The growth of employment seems to have stopped beyond the fall, while the unemployment rate, measured by the Labour Force Survey of the Statistical Centre, has remained stable at around 2.5 p.m. by the labour force. Today, however, we have got new figures for registered unemployed from Nav, which shows a significant increase in unemployment. In one year, registered unemployment has now increased by over 11,000 people, and the level is now well below 50,000 people. In particular, people with a background from construction and the industry are now entering the job vacancies. Access to job vacancies is also on the way down at the employment offices. What must be done to improve this situation? Let me first assume that Norway is better off than most countries. It's not just because we have money on the book and don't have to worry about budget deficits compared to the measures we think are reasonable. Some other countries actually have to. But it is also because we have chosen a welfare state that makes most people in Norway not directly exposed to their own well-being for the strong fluctuations in the markets that we are now seeing, and the sharp decline in stock exchanges. It's people's savings that they were going to spend on kids' education and school money, which is lost for many American citizens, it's health insurance that's placed in trust funds or related to the job that evaporates too many, with the uncertainty that it means, it might be the pensions that are exposed. In Norway, we have paid free healthcare over the tax slip. We have free education systems paid over the tax bill. We have a popular pension that we have paid over the tax bill. It's part of our preparedness for as strong a fall as we now see in the markets. This means that market forces have less to do with us than they do with the inhabitants of many other countries. The fact that we have central banks, that we have large state ownership in many Norwegian companies and a large share of Oslo Børs, also has a bearing on how we can now stabilise the situation. The most important thing now — and it has been a good time — is to make money and credit markets function normally. It is the financial market and the financial institutions that are to facilitate the efficient and safe use of funds by enterprises and households. That's the market economy infrastructure we're talking about here. The banks pass on savings capital to investments and contribute to the carrying out of activities that are profitable under normal credit assessment. It goes without saying that if access to payment intermediation and credit is disrupted, it has a major impact on the whole community. The financial system in Norway and other countries has been subject to exceptional disturbances in recent months. The financial crisis has led to an increase in the risk margins in the money and credit markets, making banks’ and other business deposits more expensive. At the same time, it's become more difficult to get a loan. Many financial institutions and households have suffered losses and need to reduce their debt in order to adapt it to lower asset values and that the risk of loans now appears to be higher. On 12 October, Norway’s Bank and the Government presented measures to improve the liquidity and finance of banks, the so-called banking package. Norway’s Bank launched F-loans, or fixed-rate loans, with a two-year maturity specifically targeted at small banks. The size of the package was adopted on 24 October. The government's proposed exchange scheme has worked. The banks have now begun to borrow these sovereign debt in exchange for covered bonds. The banks may use the sovereign debt as collateral for loans, or they may sell them on the market. This is similar to a collateralised loan. But the banks don't borrow money, they switch to sovereign debt, and thus they actually borrow security and liquidity. If the banks sell the sovereign debt they are borrowing, the effect on them is quite similar to the effect of getting a loan from the government. However, the papers have to be sold in a market, and then liquidity is collected in the market. The 2008 and 2009 framework for such exchanges has been set at NOK 350 billion and the maturity is three years. Ever since this scheme was proposed, the Ministry of Finance has been working on changes to the terms of the exchange mechanism, so that several banks can participate. It is in line with the signals given by the Financial Committee in the configuration of the package. Let me mention some changes that have been made: The proposition stated that we would consider extending the scheme, so that the covered bonds could also be based on commercial loans and local government loans, as well as on housing loans. In those assessments it is concluded, and we have implemented such an extension. It has been hoped that banks will also be able to participate through their credit undertakings. Such a change has been made. It says, among other things: mentioned in the effusion. The scheme has been given a new track, where the State waives the requirement for security restocking during the duration of the swaps under certain assumptions. It is also clarified that banks may use debt securities issued in certain currencies where they have their basis in loans secured by Norwegian dwellings and commercial real estate. Uncertainty has been associated with the interpretation of the large exposures code in relation to covered bonds. That problem is now solved. This means that several banks can use the scheme. Four auctions have now been carried out in the exchange arrangement, which has added a total of NOK 42 billion to the banks. The interest rate has been between 4.70 pst. and 5.86 pst. So far, the entire volume has gone to swap with the longest maturity. Details of individual banks' participation are business secrets. They are not published, but there are currently signed framework agreements with seven banks under this scheme. In addition, a total of DKK 12 billion in long F-loans from the Bank of Norway is allocated to a total of 89 banks. Only a few people took the maximum amount of NOK 1 billion. The measures in the banking package seem to have had an effect. Money market interest rates have been reduced and the impositions beyond the expected interest rate have fallen. It is, of course, linked to the measures taken internationally, and it is linked to these measures. It's hard to quantify how the isolated effect of our package has been, but we can observe that the flow in this market is better than before. We have now set the calendar for the first half of 2009 and the volumes will be adapted to the demand of the banks. We have a lot to do, because we know powers from Stortinget. There is reason to believe that this scheme will be important for the financing of banks in the future. In addition to the banking package itself, the Government has contributed extra to the financing of business and municipalities in several ways. We have increased the equity of the Municipal Bank, and we have given increased frameworks to GIEK and Innovation Norway, which has been a topic earlier today. We closely follow the situation in the banks. We know that Norwegian banks have had satisfactory results in the first three quarters of this year. They have first and foremost marked the international financial crisis by a sharp increase in the cost of financing and the loss of securities. I am aware that some banks are now aiming at a higher core capital coverage to ensure access to finance to acceptable conditions. If banks are not provided with money on acceptable terms, there could also be more restraint in providing new loans. It will mark business and ordinary households in case. Therefore, it is very important to follow what is now the bank's credit practice. The growth of credit in Norway remains relatively high, but is decreasing. It is reasonable to assume that the turmoil in financial markets and the changing economic situation contribute to a smaller increase in both the demand for and the supply of credit than in the past. Households and businesses have become more cautious in their borrowings, while banks tighten their lending practices. The third quarter lending survey by the Bank of Norway shows that banks are tightening up their credit practices vis-à-vis businesses and households. The banks strongly justify the narrowing of the macroeconomic outlook and the generally low level of risk. The banks' own financial situation is also reported as a reason for tighter credit practices. The Ministry of Finance, together with the Bank of Norway and the Banking Authority, has a high level of preparedness with regard to the liquidity and funding possibilities of the banks. There is still a great deal of turmoil in the markets, but the government has been very ready to say that we are ready to take the necessary steps to ensure confidence in the Norwegian banking system. It has been important throughout the autumn to have close contact with industry and banking organisations, the Savings Bank Association and the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation. I have also made direct contact with some bank managers, simply to hear how they assess the business of their own bank. Because there's a lot of stories going on about companies that don't get loans, and it's hard to distinguish whether they don't get loans for bad projects, to which they shouldn't have been loaned, or whether they don't get loans for good projects, which they should definitely have done. I think the picture is a little bit compounded. The savings banks say they lend to good customers and to good projects. Other banks say that they are now starting to get bigger problems. So I have again invited the Financial Industry's Main Organisation and the Savings Bank Association – we have met many times during the autumn – to meet with me to get as good a view as possible of the bank's situation and lending practices. I want to have the best possible basis for assessing these issues and, where appropriate, further actions that may be necessary to the financial industry. This is the kind of action that I cannot discuss – what to say – the details of the public, it is very clear to the Finance Committee, because it is sensitive material and has a bearing on the market situation. But both the Storting and the Financial Committee may be aware that we are, of course, following closely the situation and the reports we are receiving, and that we are serious about being prepared to take the necessary measures to ensure trust in the Norwegian banking system. Throughout the harvest, it has been important to focus on doing the most important thing first in crisis management, doing the right thing at the right times and in proper proportions. We've had a very sharp eye for interest rate policy, i.e. monetary policy, to have room to work. That is what is the first line defence in contributing to the stabilisation of production and employment. And it works. The decrease in interest rates that we got yesterday at 1.75 percent points is the largest in over 20 years. This is a good response to bad news, for it is in the context of even more negative perceptions of how the world economy will develop — and therefore also how the Norwegian economy will develop — that this decline in interest rates is coming. If we were to switch it, if the effect on how it stimulates the Norwegian economy, would be converted into increased oil money consumption above the state budget, the rate would be 1.75 percentage points of interest. DKr 12 billion. If we add the percentage decrease that has already been in two rounds, we have now over two months with monetary policy instruments and interest rate reductions stimulated the economy in that way by nearly $20 billion. On top of that comes the package of measures already in the 2009 budget: 14 new oil billions compared to what we have spent this year. So, in total, there's an extra incentive from 2008 to 2009 of almost 35 billion kroner. Of course, it's not a question of saying that we have a defined space for falling interest rates, but it matters how expansive a policy you're pursuing, for how much space you have for a drop in interest rates. And we have kept proposing new measures on the expenditure side of the government budget, to be sure that the interest-rate instrument could be fully exploited. And it turned out yesterday that it does. Then we can focus on the next stage, and that is fiscal action. It is not that the budget that lies there has expired in the sense that there are proposals in the budget that need to be reversed, because we knew that growth in the Norwegian economy was going to be significantly lower in 2009 than it was in 2008, so it is more in the same direction. We did not present to the Stortinget proposals for a neutral budget, we submitted proposals for an expansive budget, with 14 new oil billions in addition to what we now need to assess of measures. I very much agree with what Lars Sponheim said about this, because we must not give the impression that we can afford out of a situation with a negative growth in the world market. We have been in the middle of the butter island for the last five years, as there has been a strong demand for Norwegian goods and a strong growth in the export industry. When that demand almost falls — or at least falls — it is clear that many export industries will notice it. Therefore, we need offensive measures across a wide range, but also with a significant focus on the possible transition – continuing education, training, training – that many in individual industries may want to go through in order to be ready for new growth and, hopefully, also a greener growth than we have had in later years. We have started working on this package, and we will return to Stortinget in the month change of January/February with the content of it. We have met with the Contact Committee between the Government and the social partners. They've made a lot of suggestions. The opposition parties are of course also welcome to make their proposals, and then we have to try to reconcile what we now believe is a good package for the situation we see in January, and with which we finally conclude in January. New forecasts and new estimates for the 2009 government budget will be presented in connection with such a package, but I underline again: it is on a very uncertain basis that we are now making forecasts. The challenge for 2009 is not to make the predictions, it is primarily to deal with the problems that are coming, so wisely and with so much knowledge and understanding and so much solidarity – I think I will say in the end – as possible, because this crisis is not going to hit the great majority of us. We're going to have real wage growth, we're going to benefit from interest rate decline. It is those who now feel uncertain about their job, perhaps in combination with having to move or sell their home, who are the ones who are taking the noise, and that is why we have to say that 2009 must be a year in the sign of solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1798	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1801	I thank the Council of State for a fairly balanced presentation of the causes of the financial crisis and also what is going on. It was very delicious and liberating to hear a state council without SV rhetoric. In fact, I think we are also approaching a consensus on the causes of the financial crisis. I agree with all that the Council of State said – inflated values, structural products or wonder packages, short-term gains, misplaced risks and misregulated markets. In addition, I also want to add artificially low interest rates, which Greenspan ran in the United States. But I want to challenge the Council of State whether she can add another explanation factor, including political review of the regulators, as was the case in the United States, in order to achieve social policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1810	It is not possible to discuss the financial crisis without using SV rhetoric, so it has now spread to many camps. When even the representative Tybring-Gjedde can sign Professor Stiglitz's words that the crisis on Wall Street is for market fundamentalism as the fall of the Berlin Wall was for communism, then it is almost Christmas for me. It is quite obvious, everyone sees, that a globalized economy, an aggressive capitalism without proper regulation, is an important reason why we have come in this crisis. There is a major international debate on how to manage to regulate markets much more rationally to prevent these kinds of bubbles from coming forward. Although it is possible to find some political leadership at some point in time, the Progress Party will not succeed in political governance that is the cause of this crisis. There is a lack of political governance, and an incredibly naive belief that markets regulate themselves, which is an important reason for this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1818	Let me say that I was very excited about what tone the Minister of Finance would give today. It is obvious that the Minister of Finance has stood up with the good foot. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance on a sober and good analysis and an inviting attitude. It requires respect, and that is the way I think we are going to meet together the great crisis we are now facing. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance takes the situation in the banking as seriously as she does. Yesterday, we could read a rather worrying analysis from the Prime Minister in today's Business, where he says he is «saved that profitable enterprises may come forward because the banking system is still not functioning properly». This is a serious analysis. At the same time, we find that both the LO and the head of the Finance Committee almost demand that banks now start to borrow more money. Then my question is: does the Minister of Finance agree with the analysis that LO and Sandal express, namely that now the banks have to start borrowing money? Or is it that we now have to look at the means to make it possible for banks to borrow more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1832	I guess I've actually been equally nuanced, and both legs are good at me, to say it like this. They need the jam to be in these times too, because it's very demanding when changes happen so quickly. I'm happy with the grips we've taken so far. I believe we have come in the right time, and with the right measures at the right time. But it's demanding, and there's going to be many challenges in 2009 too. I am very pleased that we can end up at Stortinget in the constructive tone that the representative Sanner is now taking. We're probably going to disagree on things, but we're going to have to cooperate, that's for sure. When it comes to bank lending to companies, I think I'll say, both parts. Now there are many examples of projects that have not received funding. Not everyone is likely to be profitable projects; it is difficult to assess according to what is in the newspapers. But we also know that some profitable projects do not receive funding. The banks must be able to cope with the balance between being solid and not being so strongly linked to businesses, in particular, that we cannot carry out the necessary projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1841	I also think that was a good statement from the Minister of Finance. At the same time, I note that the position now has a strong need to say that the budget, as it was presented, was necessary to bring interest down. As interest rates fell as strongly as they did yesterday, the time has come to introduce budgetary policy measures. I think it's a bit of a limp analysis – that the interest rate went down by 1.75 pst. Yesterday, it seems to me that the situation in the world economy and after each situation in the Norwegian economy is such that there is no pressure at all anymore. There is a downward trend that results in such a rash. Does the Minister for Finance agree or disagree with such an analysis?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1853	I don't entirely agree. It's because it's our plan that we've now had a full focus on making the banks work as well as possible. There we know that we need to closely monitor the situation in the future as well. We have submitted an expansive budget – we did not listen to the advice we received to present a tight budget, or a neutral budget. It is both monetary policy and financial policy that must now work together to limit the effects of this crisis, limiting the effects on unemployment. If we had put forward a more expansive policy at the top of an already expansive budget, we would have used the space you need to reduce interest rates. I can't say heads for heads, or how much we would have pushed, but it would have constrained that room. It has been important for us that Norway's Bank had the opportunity to follow in the interest rate reductions we have seen in other countries, with much bigger problems than us. If the interest rate difference becomes too high, it may have significant negative effects, especially for the long-term export industry. Right now the crown is weak, but it is not safe to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1858	I will use the last meeting with the Minister of Finance this year to wish the Minister of Finance a good green year, and remember that in all the problems we are facing, 2009 must be primarily a year that will be able to deliver in the great Copenhagen meeting for the autumn. We have to stay on the climate settlement table, we must not forget that it is an important job to do. We have to get the Kyoto mechanisms to work over the year, and not least we have succeeded in getting good at home. There is a possibility for the Minister of Finance already when the budget is to be revised. The left has set a target that half of the measures should go in a green direction. It could be an increment measure, or whatever it is. This can be a good contribution to the success of the Minister of Finance, who is also the Minister for Sustainable Development, as early as January, making sure that we move in a good, green direction in 2009. Does the Minister of Finance take the challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1865	Absolutely! This financial crisis and previous financial crises may have been dramatic while they have been on, but they have largely passed after two, three, four years. I dare not predict exactly, but what we certainly know is that the climate crisis does not pass. We're going to deal with it for decades to come. What distinguishes it from the financial crisis is that there is such a time lag between action and action – whether good or bad – until action is taken. That's what our children and grandchildren want to ask us first and foremost. They won't ask us how we solved the financial crisis, but how we managed to resolve the climate crisis. So we have a clear objective: we need measures that work in terms of unemployment, but we also need measures that work in the future and are profitable. I hope there can be many good green measures that can work quickly, because it will determine how effective we can manage to get a package for the climate problems as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1870	As the Minister of Finance pointed out, the new unemployment rate today showed that unemployment rose markedly, and has now passed 50 000 unemployed. What gives even more cause for concern is that the unemployment rate is rising faster and steeper than what one believed in advance, and that forecast was added. The number shown today is something other than what you believed yesterday. I then understand to the extent that the Minister of Finance is acceptable 50 000 unemployed, given the financial crisis. In any event, there is currently no need to launch any new fiscal measures. Then my question is, how high does the Minister of Finance think unemployment can rise before it is completely unacceptable? Is 100 000 unemployed also acceptable? Or is it unacceptable before one comes to that level?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1877	I think any unemployed person should be in the situation that he was offered something else to do. We have always focused on getting unemployment as low as possible. I am therefore not going into any discussion about what is acceptable or not, because as long as there are unemployed, I am going to fight unemployment. Now later, the representative Hagesett is as if we can afford to get out of all the unemployment that we are going to have to work with in 2009. We're not going to make it. But we can get significant measures to combat unemployment. That is what our package of measures is about. But we also need to be more focused on migration, on-the-job training and opportunities for people to go from one type of job to another. Fortunately, we have not met with uncritical oil billions on top of an extreme economic recession, as the Progress Party would have done. It makes us have a room for action to pursue countercyclical policies, and that's what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1884	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1887	When Professor Krugmann was in Oslo to receive the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics, he was asked if he saw any points of light in the world economy. His answer, having thought a little about it, was no. And then he added that he had become more pessimistic over the past few weeks, because there was worse in both China, India and Brazil. He didn't think it was going to turn around until there was a better balance between equity and debt. In other words, too many have borrowed too much over time, and financial institutions have made poor demands for collateral for the loans they have given. I think most people can agree with that analysis, although I must say that it was little uplifting that a man with his background did not see any points of light. This makes even greater demands on us as politicians to take action that can help us to get out of this crisis and to light up some optimistic lights. There has also been a debate on market regulation in the context of the extension of the financial crisis. Krugmann was in on it, too. He said that some of the problems have been partly crazy regulation, but also that in the United States there was a parallel financial system that was larger than the regulated one – an unregulated system. The right has never been against regulation – on the contrary. We're following that that we're going to have a strong state. That doesn't mean we're going to have a big state. We are committed to regulating the market in order to ensure competition, to ensure the functioning of the market and to ensuring consumers in the market. We also believe that there is a need for a new debate on international rules, because it is quite clear that once the market is liberalised and the economy is liberalised, policies should also follow. I think it may be a paradox that the only forum in which policy is following today is the European Union. And those who are most attached to the policy follow-up and play an active role are those who are most strongly opposed to Norwegian EU membership. I must also add that I am pleased that the G20 meeting held in Washington underlined that the market economy and globalisation are not the problem, but part of the solution. It would be a very serious situation if we now, at the top of a depression, had also got more protectionism. Protectionism would quickly lead us into a new depression and reinforce the crisis that is now affecting the world economy, which affects too many people by losing their jobs. I would therefore like to stress that the market economy and globalisation are fundamentally positive. It has helped to lift millions of people out of poverty. But it is quite clear that the economy needs to be regulated in order for the market to function. I'm not going to go into history and who has said what through September, October, November, because I think it impresses very few. When we know that things have changed so radically just in a few weeks, I think we'll be a little bit more humble considering that situation. But I still want to get into one problem issue. When the Minister of Finance pointed out that we in Norway are more rusty than some other countries, I do not disagree with that analysis. On the contrary, I think it is right, both because of the financial and because we have a relatively large public sector – we can agree on how large it should be, but the Nordic welfare model itself has a broad political base. But what is a problem is that this crisis will affect small and medium-sized enterprises in the competitive sector more strongly. Then I think it is a problem that the government has helped to weaken the competitiveness of businesses over three years, that private business taxes have been increased, and that investment has not been sufficient in future welfare and value creation in the good years we have behind us. I believe, as I said, that it is important that, in this crisis, we take action to make sure that we can get out of it. That means it's not about spending the most money. There I agree with Lars Sponheim – and I also understood that the Minister of Finance is. It's more of a question of how to spend the money. From the right, we are concerned that there should be a balance in the measures being taken. There is a clear need for measures in the construction sector and for the implementation of the necessary infrastructure measures. There are measures that will make sense in any case. Contribute to building the country and ensuring that we have good collective solutions and good road solutions are, however, sensible measures. In addition, it will be right to focus more on knowledge, research and innovation. I think making sure that we stimulate innovation and new businesses is important to create more optimism, including in business. Let me also add that I think the debate that has now been about seeing the financial crisis and the environmental crisis in the context has a lot to do with it. Clearly, in the crisis we are in now, we can help turn consumption in the right direction. I hope the government is prepared to have a dialogue about how we can do just that. On the right, we believe, as I said, that we should have measures to stimulate the public sector, but we also believe that there is scope for tax relief – especially for those with low and usual wage incomes – and measures that target businesses. It is clear that there are no crises that are the same, and the recession that the Right Legacy in 2001 – which I will not call a crisis – cannot be fully compared to the crisis we have now. But I still want to remind you that the Right has experience in governing in tough times, and that we used tools that helped to bring down interest rates and that contributed to increased activity, especially by putting a lot of money on knowledge and research, and that we lowered taxes. There are instruments that we believe would also be able to use now. Then I notice what the Council of State says about the banking system. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance is following it closely, and I respect her not being able to enter into a debate on the means to be used. But I want to say from the right that we know enough to conclude that action is needed. When the Prime Minister is able to go into today's business and express concern that profitable businesses can go bankrupt because the banking system is not working, there is a strong signal that new measures are needed. The right is prepared to have a dialogue on it, and we are of course prepared to be able to deal with it quickly in the Storting, if necessary. Finally, let me remind you of some wise words that Jens Stoltenberg uttered when I sat on the Energy and Environment Committee with him. It was: let's get together about what we can agree on, because there are enough questions that we disagree about, and that we can discuss! I do not think that the Right and SV can agree on all the measures in the crisis we are now going into, but we can agree on something. I believe that it would be a significant strength for the Storting, for the political system, to gather on some fiscal instruments in the new year. It would give a clear signal to the people, and to those who are now struggling with their jobs, that there is leadership and cooperation here. I think that would be a strength for the political system and also help us get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1920	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1923	I remember Jan Tore Sanner saying something like that too many people have borrowed too much money over a long time. If one goes that analysis, I would say that it must mean that the interest rate has been too low for too many places for too long, and that it has helped to create the value bubble and the property bubble that we are now seeing. I just want to remind Right that over a long time they have expressed their wish that the interest rate should be low and that it has been an independent measure. When we then see that that is actually something that has contributed, it has been my reasoning to say that the right side clearly has part of the responsibility for the crisis itself – not only on the regulatory side, but also on the interest rate policy side. But if we're going to go further and be even more constructive, I'm going to challenge Jan Tore Sanner with a question: how can you, in today's situation, with the way we have independent central banks, make sure that we don't end up in a similar position again, with too low interest rates over too long?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1932	I think most people will agree that in some countries, and perhaps especially in the United States, interest rates were kept too low for too long. The former governor of Greenspan has also taken self-criticism on that, and I'm not going to try him out on that analysis. With regard to our criticism of the fiscal policy of the red-green government in 2006, 2007 and in part in 2008, it stands firm. We believe that it was wrong to pursue such an expansionary fiscal policy at the top of a boom. Then you should have kept something more. I think we have to recognise that there is a limit to how we can control interest rate developments, even if we can influence it through financial policy. What should have been done was to promote more savings-stimulating measures, making savings more profitable. Either it's for retirement or it's for housing or otherwise, I think that as politicians we have a powerful tool in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1939	It is touching to hear the right side talk about action packages. I would like to remind you that when the last right-hand seat of the government, there were 100 000 unemployed in this country. The measures they put in place were cut in the unemployment penalty, cut in Innovation Norway and cut in nutrient-oriented district implements. The taxes on dividends introduced, they would eliminate the net pay scheme, impose taxes on businesses that led them to move out of the country, and they did not follow up the frameworks of the national transport plan. So this right over here has shown what they really stand for. My question to the representative Sanner will then be: Is this action that he thinks is accurate also in the situation we are currently in?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1946	This, I think, was a kind of strange form of history writing. It is quite right that unemployment increased in the first few years of our government. It was after 9/11 and it was after the dot com bubble cracked. We went into a recession, and then the time off went up. But we led a responsible economic policy, which helped bring interest down. We were committed to building infrastructure and focusing on knowledge and research, and it helped to reverse pessimism for optimism and progress. So yes, the Right Policy works. We have experience in driving in tough times. I think that Klungland too could have enjoyed listening to something more also to the opposition parties, which have something to contribute to this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1953	I'm taking a new line, because I feel like Jan Tore Sanner didn't answer what was my main challenge. If one of the main reasons for the financial crisis is that too many people have had too low interest rates over a long time in too many countries – it is only in the United States that this is related, because of the need for export industry and the need to have some balance between the countries for these things – then the question is again: What kind of thoughts do the Right have? If you don't have any special thoughts about how to avoid getting back to where we are with regard to interest rate policy, can you think of any other thing? Does the Right have any thoughts about how to avoid falling into this crisis again, avoiding too low interest rates over too long for many places?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1960	Right is not a member of any political governance of the central bank, if that's what's at stake. We're going to have a free and independent central bank. And there must be an interaction between financial policy and monetary policy. Monetary policy is in many ways also a response to the fiscal policy pursued. If the fiscal instruments are not used correctly, then monetary policy will come into force, and interest rates will soon be lower. Then it's clear that you need to have a discussion about what requirements banks make to collateral for the loans you're granting. I am absolutely convinced that this crisis we are now experiencing is what many will learn from. In particular, those who have lost money within the banking system will be concerned not to do so again in the same way as it has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1967	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1970	First, I would like to add some comments to the post that the representative Holmås had, where he commented on my previous statements here in the storeroom that pertained to the United States. The background to the play that I made at the time was that more and more representatives in this room are going up on the pulpit and skin-staining the United States. They criticize the United States without knowing the country, and make a number of claims about the country. I think it's a shame that we in this room operate and characterize the United States, which is our foremost ally, in that way. It's actually the country in the world that fights for the freedoms that we all greatly appreciate, that applies, among other things. freedom of expression, secular rules of law and democracy. We should actually sometimes boast of the United States. It is a country with 300 million people who have a gigantic democracy and who have had tremendous economic success. Of course, many people are also struggling in the United States, but the United States is actually a country we should admire instead of just criticizing. That was my starting point. We're very often self-sufficient up here in the north, and we're very self-satisfied. The United States is a country that we have a lot to learn from. I myself have lived in the United States for seven years, and know the United States quite much better than the representative Holmås. I've lived in several cities in the United States. I've seen how close family ties are in the United States, and how strong and tight they are. I've seen how proud they are of their country, how they boast of their country, how they care about these values and they account for the values they believe in. It is not like in Norway, where we are often cultural relativists and rake down on our own country. That's at least what I'm thinking. I've lived in the United States and I know well about the United States. This financial crisis has become a paradox, not least for Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, who initially has a party program in which she wants to reduce economic growth and actually wants to tame market forces, and is a little negative to capitalism as a whole. Then she experiences a financial crisis that does exactly what SV's party program really wants, it takes – what the council said – these terrible market forces, which are really just you and me. Now she's got to this. Now the growth is being reduced, now the consumption is going down, and now the Council of State is doing what she can. She says that people should just keep having what they had before, not more than they had before -- she had to clarify that, of course -- but they're going to do just as they did before. So this is not in line with SV's party program. But it is quite interesting to see what development the Council of State has had in the Council of State from the time she was only SV leader. Then the rhetoric was different, but the politics and realities also occupy Kristin Halvorsen, and I'm glad that. But then it is also a little hollow when she at the same time tries to criticize those who defend the market, those who defend competition, those who believe in the market. It gets a little hollow when she herself tries to maintain this market she doesn't like, but she must as well. There are many paradoxes in that game. Kristin Halvorsen appeared very worthy on the pulpit here today, and I boast of her for it, but she has had other plays that are not quite so worthy. I hope she learned from the positive feedback she received from all the parties after her posts here today. So a little bit to what's the cause of the financial crisis, as the Council of State was in it. I share those views – but not the rhetoric about the fall of the Berlin Wall and capitalism etc. I don't share it. But I share the description of the causes of the financial crisis, and I've also been standing here on the pulpit and saying exactly the things that were said. In addition, I said that there was an artificially low interest rate – which also represented Holmås – that Greenspan kept a very low interest rate, which had infectious effects. But there was also political interference in the regulator in the United States. I'm standing here with a leader from The Wall Street Journal -- if you don't want to believe me, you might believe a little bit more in The Wall Street Journal -- that says just this. In fact, it says about named politicians who were on Freddie Macs and Fannie Mae's payroll to get them to go in for less regulation. I think that, among other things, contributed to the resignation of Newt Gingrich. It was both Republicans and Democrats. But they tried the regulators in the United States. It was a political desire among a majority in the United States, both Democrats and Republicans – and especially Democrats – to lend housing to disadvantaged people. It was a social policy objective. This may be a good social policy objective, but it is also a risk when manipulating the market. For this reason, fiscal policy should be used to the greatest extent to achieve policy objectives and not to override market supply and demand, because it will have ring-fenced effects and have consequences that are not wanted in the long term. The promotion team is concerned not to push the baby out with the bath water when you are now criticising and trying to come up with better regulations that need to be global and that cover wider than today. Although this is a crisis, we must not push the whole system onto the scrapheap. Nor should we use a rhetoric that is heard as if it were what you intend to do. I want to repeat what the representative Sanner said, that the market economy has brought hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. It applies in China, India, Vietnam, South America and around. It is actually the market economy that has created it. If we look at what clothes we wear here today, we have clothes from all over the world. So it's a result of the global market economy that has made it possible for us to do it that way. We must not go back to protectionism – I agree with Mr Sanner in – and do not repeat what happened in the 1930s. A small country like Norway will lose most of its mind. We have a lot to do with today's global market economy. But then there's one more thing that the market economy contributes to, and it's also very important. It contributes to political freedoms and the dissemination of power. It does not happen in other systems that have a planned economy or that have a fully organised economy. That's where the power gets very concentrated. The fact that you have a market economy also spreads power, and that makes ownership spread – very, very important – and that gives you political freedoms. A well-functioning democracy needs to have a market economy to function. We should not stand on this platform and criticise the market economy when we live well with it. We're totally dependent on it, and we've built our wealth on market economy. But to have a financial system, we need a global system where regulations apply to everyone. So it's not that the Progress Party is against regulation. We want neutral rules. We don't want monopolistic situations. We want to have neutral rules that apply to everyone. We want risks to follow those who take the risk and that you cannot transfer risks to others. We want to have that kind of rules. We are a member of the Competition Authority. We're a member of the Credit Authority. We are followers of the kind of regulation, but not regulations that favor one particular enterprise or one particular grouping against another. It creates market distortions. That is why we want market forces to play the best possible role, and we need to be aware that we are going to have competition supervision and a credit supervision that looks at business and that looks at the financial part of the economy. I really want to end by joining what the evening post wrote in its leader today. It is rare the evening post believes very much in its leaders, but this time they come with a call to all of us, including themselves, I suppose: ‘Only by sincere and impeccable self-investigation can we have the hope of acquiring collective knowledge of the functioning of the most important financial and credit markets in a world where trade is global — and not least how best to regulate them.’ That's what the Progress Party ends up to. That is why we also agree with the comment that we had debated a few days ago here in the Chamber, where we wanted a broad range to be set up to look at the cause of the financial crisis and how we can get a regulation that works in Norway, but that can also be European and possibly global.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e1999	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 17. [[Fotation, see page 1696]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e2055	Let me briefly explain why the four opposition parties today have promoted the proposal under consideration. One is that we've had quite a few rounds of discussions about the changes to the Law on the Information Society's Fund, which is to give room for a new Santa Claus directive, but which the parties that promote the proposal believe violates the Basic Law. The instruction is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January next year, and the application by KA, the Church employers’ and stakeholders’ organisation, has now been submitted. At the time when the committee discussed the matter normally, it was not clear whether a case was to be brought against the State. That's it now. Sterilization has therefore been submitted. Then, during the debate both in Odelstinget and in Lagtinget, emphasis was placed on asking the state councils – it is in this case up to several state councils that may not have completely allocated responsibility between themselves – what they would do if a case was raised against the state. What would that mean for the entry into force of the Santa Claus directive? That question was not answered during the treatment in Odelstinget, nor in Lagtinget. That is why written questions have been asked to the state councils about exactly the same thing. The answer now available is that nothing will be done to postpone the implementation of the Santa Claus directive, even if a request has been made. I'm not going to go back to the whole discussion about the Information Service's fund and the Santa Claus directive. It could have been tempting, but I won't. Still, I just want to underline a couple of important things. When the committee consulted on the matter, we had legal expertise from the Justice Department's law department, at Inge Lorange Backer, we had inside Frode Innjord, and we also had Professor Dr.jur. Eivind Smith. Of the points of view they made, of course from different points of view, because they had different opinions on the matter, it was particularly noteworthy to note the view of the Law Department, that the opposite view of what the Law Department came up to is also an expression of sound legal judgement. In other words, it is not obvious that the Government here is on a safe basis in relation to the Constitution. From the Right, we believe that the Government is obviously on an insecure basis in the case of the Constitution. So the head of the law department, Inge Lorange Backer, made it clear that it is a sound legal judgement to believe the opposite of what the law department believes. I would also like to point out to the Government that in a matter like this, which has major consequences, and where you now know that a request has been made, however, to plan to implement the instruction from 1.1.2009, is a rather unwise decision. There are several reasons for this. Of course, for those matters that apply from 1.1.2009, where land is redeemed or where rent is regulated down, there will be considerable consequences if all this has to be done again after the legal system has said it. Therefore, it is reasonable and wise to wait until a decision has been made in the courts on how the validity of the Santa Claus directive is in relation to the Basic Law § 106. It is also not urgent to implement the Santa Claus directive from 1 January 2009. It is a purely political decision, but there is nothing to suggest that it is not possible to wait. Rather the contrary, the government should take the time to wait in this matter. It is an important and major matter of principle, which is of great importance to the Information Society's fund, but it also has great importance for the transfer to the Church, because the Information Society's fund per. EUR 200-250 million is currently being financed. SEK of the Church's activities specifically aimed at the work of children and young people. Clearly, the disappearance of these funds will have major consequences. After the opinion of the Right and the three other opposition parties, the most sensible decision to take is to postpone the entry into force of the Landing Instructions of 14 September 2007 with the amendments made this year. It makes sense because it will save society from unnecessary processes of reversal if it turns out that the courts agree that the Santa Claus directive is contrary to the Basic Law § 106. It would also make sense because it is wise to clarify this type of legal dispute early. I have no doubt that the matter that has now been raised has been raised on a reasonable basis. There has been great doubt. Government parties have also expressed doubts as to whether the vision they represent is correct. It is therefore reasonable to wait until the court has ruled on the present case. With that, I will address the proposal that has been made earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e2081	The representative, Ms Soreide, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e2084	I can sign on to all the previous speaker underlined. In addition, I would like to say that when the Stortinget discussed the relationship with the Constitution and the Santa Claus directive in its time, it became quite clear from several representatives of the government parties that it was not possible to have a clear response to this. The uncertainty is that you can't know what's going to happen in the legal system. Therefore, we believe from the Christian People's Party that it would be wise to lead were and waited until the case has been through the judicial system, and we have tried this and we know what we have to deal with. I believe that the responsibility to avoid having to clean up landowners, owners and the state themselves afterwards if this proves to be contrary to the Constitution § 106, should outweigh the responsibility of the government parties to comply with the Soria Moria declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e2092	I just want to inform you that the government parties are going to vote against the proposal, and ask that this be said in connection with voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e2097	When Odelstinget dealt with the legislative amendment proposed by the Government to the Law on the Information Society's Fund on 23 October, and when the Law was dealt with the same matter on 3 November, the present state councils were asked up to several times how the Government was going to deal with the question raised in this proposal. Both the relevant state councils – the church councils of Giske in Odelstinget and the Minister of Justice Storberget in Lagtinget – refused to answer the question, mainly on the grounds that there was a hypothetical question as there was no lawsuit, and it was not known whether there would be a legal case. Since then, the Minister of Renewal of two almost equivalent written questions has given an answer that is completely unfounded and that only indicates that the instructions were adopted on and after that, and the amendment of the law was adopted on and after that, and the instructions enter into force from 1 January. That, I think, is the opposite of showing respect for the Storting. I think it is very close to showing the opposite, namely contempt for the Storting. The government has in this case been warned time after time, and, as I said during the Lamentations debate, it has chosen with open eyes to run towards the red light. That means it's gotten itself a very large height of fall. If it turns out that the outcome of a legal case is that the State is losing, and the Supreme Court – I take it for granted that this case is going to end in the Supreme Court, because it is as principle as some case may be – would state that the amendment of the law is contrary to the Constitution, and therefore also that the Santa Claus directive is contrary to the Basic Law, an additional problem has been created on the neck if a significant part of the privatisation process has been initiated in the meantime. It's about privatising up to 20 pst. of a fund which is currently the property of the community and which is the only fund in Norway which is incorporated. Then you will have the situation described by the Vice President of Stortinge, Carl I. Hagen, very accurately during the Odelstingen debate on 23 October, namely that a significant part of public property has been realised for randomly selected individuals, and that could be a situation in which the Supreme Court determines that these sales were actually illegal. I allowed myself during the Lamentations debate to show that it is not just about the relationship with the Basic Law § 106 and the provision of what is now called the Information Society's fund, which was then called the "spirit of beneficent Goods". In fact, it is also another constitutional paragraph that is equally fundamental, namely Section 19, which requires the King, and that is, the Government, to manage the property of the State in a sound manner. What we're in danger of doing here is managing the state's properties in a clearly irresponsible way. It will also have a distinct link to the provisions of the Liability Act on the liability of the Governments if they participate or refrain from attempting to prevent such irresponsible disposal of the property of the State. I find it remarkable that none of the government councils concerned have found any reason to meet in Stortinget, despite the fact that it is probably known in the government quarter that this matter is on the Stortingen agenda and will be dealt with as the last matter of today's meeting. It also tells us what interest this government has in the legislative assembly in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e2112	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1 on the supplementary agenda. [[See page 1703]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e2120	The size shall be sufficient to cover the cases:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e2130	Before referring to the suspension, the President shall draw attention to a correction which must be made to the draft decision of the vote: the text of entry IV into force on page 8, second column at the bottom, shall be deleted and replaced by the following: C Entry into force The rules under A and B shall enter into force on 1 October 2009. The Presidency had cancelled: A The Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e2278	During the debate, Mr Giltun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e4353	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 2 December 2008: ‘The government is asking for a 20 per cent tax deduction from personal, permanent investments in companies up to 500000 kroner’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e4373	There is a vote on the proposal of Mr Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 15 December 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to re-assess whether a system of higher and tested children’s allowances related to redundancy benefits is more appropriate than a standardised child supplement to combat child poverty and to promote a separate case to the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e4392	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 15 December 2008: ‘The Council asks the Government to investigate and propose the establishment of a new administrative structure with only two elected levels, state and municipality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e4411	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 15 December 2008: ‘The Government is asking the Government to wind up today’s framework funding system and to replace it with a new system of direct state price financing for basic welfare services such as health, care, primary, secondary and social services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e4429	There is a vote on the proposal by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, transmitted from the meeting of Odelstinget on 15 December 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case clarifying the financing arrangements for all approved vocational education and training.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e4450	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 15 December 2008: ‘The decision requests the Government to open procedures for the transfer of tasks from country to county municipalities and to county councils in cooperation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e4469	There is a vote on the proposal of the representative of the Grand Duchy of Tørresdal, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 15 December 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner when the regional research funds are to be located.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e4488	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 15 December 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider returning to the Revised National Budget for 2009 with a proposal that the restriction on the compensation of victims is per. victim/sacrifice.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e4567	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's Proposal No 1, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 2, from the Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 3 and 4, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 5, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e4597	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e5110	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 budget shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e5209	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests that, in the context of its New Year’s package of measures, the Government increase the depreciation rate for machinery and equipment, in balancing group d, from 20 to 25 pst. with effect from 2009 as a whole.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e7159	We shall vote in favour of the matter, which is included in the supplementary agenda. These are representatives from Anders Anundsen, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, Dagrun Eriksen and Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-18.ana.ud1000e7179	Then we have come to the end of this meeting, and it only remains for the President to wish Christmas and Happy New Year! This semester ends quite dramatically – I am thinking about the financial crisis and the meltdown of the economy around the world. It can therefore be a good idea for everyone to cool down a bit during Christmas and meet again with fresh courage. The President is convinced that the Stortinget will also deal with this crisis in an exceptionally good way. With the words: Merry Christmas and Happy New Year! Well home, everyone!
