ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e64	The called alternate for Oslo, Audun Rødningsby, has taken the seat. From the meeting of the alternate of the Eastfold County, Per Egil Evensen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinge from the time of 5 June and until further notice, under the leave of the representative Vigdis Giltun, for welfare reasons. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Erlend Wiborg, is proposed to meet during the leave period. - It is deemed to have been adopted. Erlend Wiborg is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e95	At the request of the Minister of Health and Welfare, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Saxi, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e106	Our health care is among the best in the world. Norway is one of the countries in the world that spends the most money on healthcare, and is one of the world’s highest average age countries. A lot is very good, but we're also facing some challenges. Disease and age composition among the Norwegian population are changing. There has been a sharp increase in the prevalence of cancer in the post-war period, and the development of improved treatment methods has contributed to increased survival and significantly improved quality of life for cancer patients. New technologies, new treatments and new drugs are under constant development and contribute to increasing life expectancy, and more people are able to live longer with chronic diseases or disabilities. That's good. But people are only temporarily enrolled in the specialist health service. Figures show that, on average, there are ten years between hospitalisations requiring immediate help. Therefore, we need to focus more on providing people with good and sound health services where they live, stronger primary health services and decentralised specialist health services. Health services in municipalities are the foundation of our health services, but they have been too small in importance. We therefore need to look at both how we organise and what functions in the provision of health should be at the different levels. In some areas, medicine is so specialised that it is necessary to centralise treatment provision to a small number of units in order to ensure the medical quality of the supply. Cancer surgery, neurosurgery, and cardiac and cardiac surgery are examples of this. However, in a number of areas it would also be appropriate to decentralise specialist services to local hospitals and to primary health services. Technological developments have also contributed greatly to the possibility of a number of functions being decentralised into local hospitals and primary health services, for example. by telemedicine. Example of a service that can be decentralised is dialysis in case of renal insufficiency, which can be performed by specially trained personnel in the patient’s municipality of residence. It is important that the task-sharing between hospitals be carried out simultaneously to ensure that the smaller hospital units are provided with new tasks in advance or at the same time as other tasks disappear. In this way, professional recruitment continues to be ensured and the public's insecurity with regard to the question of the disappearance of specialist services is prevented. Similarly, SV emphasises the importance of better interaction as an important tool for strengthening the treatment provision of the individual patient as all the hearing bodies involved in the Committee, as the Minister of Health said. In order to strengthen the provision of habilitation and rehabilitation services, it is important that local hospitals are more able to perform these tasks in interaction with patients’ municipalities. We are pleased that the government is looking at the funding system in order to achieve a better interaction to follow the course of patients. During the period 2002-2006, the growth of medical services in specialised health services was 13.6 p.m., while for primary health services it was 3.1 p.m. This makes a problem of resource allocation between the primary health service and the specialist health service visible. Therefore, if more than one patient is to receive local treatment, it is necessary to carry out a resource shift from the specialist health service to the primary health service. Then to the representative proposal of the Progress Party. The representative proposal came in response to the unanimous conclusion of the Magnussen Committee that there is a distortion of 781 million. kr for the benefit of Health South-East. We take this very seriously, and we understand very well the local and regional involvement in this matter. We also understand that people are impatient in the matter, and SV looks forward to a thorough discussion on how to distribute resources among regional health businesses. We are committed to providing equivalent health care across the country and a fair distribution of resources. The government now has a review of the consultation opinions, and the matter will be dealt with in the Grand Duchy in the context of the 2009 budget. On this basis, the majority of the Committee will not meet the proposals of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e134	This year, new steps have been taken towards predictability and better management of the hospital and health business economy. I want to mention four crucial points here. Over many years, there has been a problem with resources for maintenance and investment, and stability in the economy. This year, what is called depreciation, which just ensures funds for this, is increased from the previous 60 pst. to 80 pst. That is to say, there are 5.6 billion dollars in the budget for these purposes. We have also gone through the revised budget and taken action to clean up pension costs. In accordance with new accounting policies, etc. there has been a need to add new funds, and it is, as you know, added DKK 3.5 billion to it in the revised budget. At the same time, health businesses, including the private and non-profit hospitals which have cooperation agreements with health businesses and with the public, have been given predictability in relation to this in the future. I am aware that there is still a problem there in relation to the private and non-profit hospitals in 2007, but the main thing, as they also report, is that they now see the light in the tunnel and see a solution to the problem of pension costs, which they have rolled in front of them. Here I have to admit that during the hearing we had about the Minister's statement, it was a bit funny that several of the large organisations looked like the crucial point of following the accounting law within health companies or not. I think it's going to be a strange approach, because some of the most crucial thing for these organizations and their employees is just predictability, securing pensions. Another point on which they have been critical for many years is the means of maintenance and investment to avoid deterioration in the working environment and in the buildings in which they work. I think there are healthy steps taken with regard to depreciation of pension costs, which has previously led to these accounting deficits we have seen in health companies. I also believe that the grip that the Minister spoke about in his statement, which has been followed up in the position, in bringing together highly specialised health technology treatment in the country in fewer places, is important. We see that it is now being implemented with great force through the capital process in Health South-East and in the Oslo area, and as announced by the Council of State, the same thinking and the same work are also being carried out throughout the country. It will give more opportunity to have the best technology where we're going to have the most difficult treatments. It allows us to have the best expertise and advice on the best forms of treatment, and thus also safer and better treatment for patients who are in a difficult situation with severe diseases. The fourth step I would like to mention, which will provide better interaction, stronger power in the management of health businesses and cross-health cooperation at all levels, is the implementation of ICT in health care, taking the potential into account. We're good. Many solutions have been created in Norway, but they have not managed to interact in a good way. Through the plan now presented, Interaction 2.0, where the Minister warns a stronger ownership management, a stronger national governance of the implementation of ICT in healthcare, I hope we will see great progress in that field in terms of exploiting the potential. It is gratifying that it is announced that until the autumn, a change in the law will be promoted in order to make use of patient information, ICT, across health businesses and all levels of health care in a different way from what is happening today. In fact, this interaction plan, which came a short time ago, states that necessary legislative changes are to be proposed to enable information to be made available to healthcare professionals in and between health establishments, in and between private hospitals, between private hospitals and health enterprises, in and between municipalities, between municipalities and health enterprises, and private hospitals and permanent staff. Such a change in legislation will cover many of the problems that have been identified over and over again when visiting healthcare companies and other health institutions around the country, that the ICT tool is not being used for proper interaction, and that two thirds of what can be disseminated through ICT, are also disseminated in duplication through paper, creating a very high level of extra work, high costs and a high level of resource use. The new ICT interaction will also ensure better privacy, because there are far better opportunities to ensure strong privacy through access control, etc. in a standardised ICT system than through these paper versions floating around in taxis and on watchrooms. It is interesting to read the position of the Minister’s presentation and the proposed representative who has been promoted. I think all parties, except the Advance Party, have very interesting comments on which way to clean up the health economy. We have written these comments for each of us, which we agreed on in the committee, and I want to say that there is a lot of what is written in the comments of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right that I think are excellently written. For example, the Right points out that we are at the top of the world in terms of resource use in public health, but OECD Health Consumer Powerhouse ranks us in 16th place in terms of quality and resource use. In their comments, the Right uses this to point out that there are no questions about the level of funding that is crucial in the Norwegian health system, but how resources are used. Both the Right and the other parties, including the government parties, go into how the interaction between primary health services and health businesses should prevent and prevent the excessive flood of patients we have into our hospitals today. The medical team in a report said that they estimate that about 30-40 pst. Of those sent to hospital today, should not have been sent there and that better solutions could be found if better cooperation models were available in the first line service. All parties, other than the Progress Party, will take that path first and foremost, rather than proposing large additional appropriations for the current financial year. This reverse operation is going to be able to have a lot of terms, and I'll mention a couple of things. Firstly, it is important to look at the funding system of the entire patient cycle in order to place funds where they should be available to prevent flooding against hospitals. This can be done by using DRG credits in relation to specialist health services in cooperation with the first line, for example: in nursing homes and in rehabilitation measures. It is also important to look at earmarked grants in order to implement, for example: all the good measures contained in the Government’s Diabetes Plan, the COLS Plan, the Asthmatic Plan, etc. There are action plans for physical activity and diet, i.e. measures that could prevent by improving local settings for large chroniclers and lifestyle groups, which could then avoid entering acute situations where they need to be sent to hospitals. A large part of them up towards 70 pst. coming to Norwegian hospitals under the category ‘Immediate help patients’ are not those with heart attacks or strokes, but patients with acute conditions of different types of lifestyle diseases. Here we can do a reverse operation. We have the tools for this partly in the action plans that have been presented, and partly in the strong pressure that is now from the Storting to choose that strategy. There are many other tools that are mentioned, including: in the additional heading that is associated with the revised budget now. The Ministry mentions the involvement of the local medical centre or district medical centre - which was also attended by the representative Saxi - as one of the measures to implement good patient treatment at the right level and to avoid this flooding towards hospitals. There is a lot that can be said about how we're going to interact throughout the treatment process. I mean, among other things: the need to receive own rates for group rehabilitation, not only by individuals, so as to improve the financing of rehabilitation in own enterprises from the first day. We have been involved by the Workers' Party in some of the weaknesses in the financing of rehabilitation, which we believe today lead to harmful effects on what the Storing has asked for, namely an uplift for rehabilitation in the coming years, which is also crucial for not too many to return to hospital. We hope and want health businesses to give priority to this path in the coming years and not to put the offer in the first line when the economy is tight.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e166	The Minister of Health and Health made his statement on the hospital economy in Stortinget on 26 February this year. In this statement, the Council of State placed great emphasis on telling us what the situation in the overall Norwegian health service looks like on the part of the Council of State - and possibly also on part of the ministry - of its side. One received the usual estimate that there has never been more money allocated to hospitals than that government has done for the current period, that there has been a cooperation agreement with the KS on better coordination between the specialist health service and the primary health service, that there has been a significant increase in the number of hospital staff, etc. In other words, there was very little new in this presentation. The size of the hospital budget is known. It's actually the Storting that grants the money, not the Government. The size is also familiar with the pension challenges. The Council of State stated in its statement that, in the context of the revision, a long-term solution would be presented to them. This is actually not done, all the time that has been done in the revised national budget, just covers some of the extra costs, and you don't say anything about how to solve these challenges in the long term. This will have to be brought back to the budget for 2009. The size is also known about the situation related to the financial management in Health South-East. It's not many years since this region was developed as the big example of how to actually control the economy, how to balance. Now this region appears to be the one with the greatest challenges of balancing just now. There is reason to ask the question: When was it really narrow in this region, what was the background for it, and what is the result of the lack of governance in this region? It is incredibly good that happens in the Norwegian health care system. Most people get good help and treatment within a reasonable time. Many and very good services are provided to the Norwegian population, and health care workers do their utmost to help those in need. I also believe that a unanimous enlargement can join the vast majority of the Council of State said in its presentation. That's what the Council of State didn't say, what she didn't come into - or rather just so much affected - in her statement, which is actually the problem. How will one be able to reverse economic developments and increase in waiting times, so that the waiting time again begins to decline? How are we going to be able to create even better and safer jobs with significantly lower sick leave, where one does not have to deal - most of the time at least - with steady savings and cutting proposals? As late as the last week, we've seen very serious cases of how mating and changes now turn out. We've seen a look-up that tells of a woman who was born in the corridor at St. Olav, we've seen a notice that a person with an ankle fracture - it was well in Bergen - had to wait several days before he was operated on, and of course we've all got the general strike that's been on the Rjukan. These are just a few examples from last week. So are these unique examples? No, I'm sorry! On March 8, the current year, the newspaper produced a list of cutting proposals to achieve the demand for an efficiency of DKK 1.5 billion. Of course, there were a number of proposals, and very close to all have been adopted, but many have been adopted. This list is probably worth looking at. It says Ullevål University Hospital, the Rikshospitalet, Haukeland University Hospital, Akershu University Hospital and the University Hospital North Norway - a number of different savings measures. In addition, we have seen headlines such as ‘Not able to afford the Molde Hospital’ - in the long-term budget - and headlines that St. Olav does not tolerate any more cuts. What about the psychiatry? Is the psychiatry at least protected? No, you can unfortunately see that even at a time when we have an escalating plan for the psychiatry, there are a number of suggestions to cut down also within that field. The representative of Boehler was in his contribution to earmarking some of the funds related to, among others. Diabetes plan. I really hope that the government will follow up what the representative of Bohemia said about earmarked funds. In the case of precisely diabetes, the Stortinget adopted a diabetes plan one year ago. But when the Government came up with its first budget after that plan was adopted, the Government did not propose any funds to follow up that plan. Fortunately, Stortinget intervened and received some money, but the government had not chosen to follow this up. I'm also going to have to deal with what's involved in the distribution of funds in the health care system. The main element of Norwegian health care is that every citizen, wherever you live, social status, etc., should be equally worth it and have almost equal rights to receive treatment. Therefore, it is also important to follow up on the appropriations. We have now had two samples that have looked at the situation related to appropriations in the specialist health service. Both have concluded that if you look at the structure that is, Health South-East has received more money compared to the others. It would not be appropriate to correct this imbalance by reducing the appropriations allocated to Health South-East. The challenges in this region are now so great that if they are also required to reduce further, it will be directly irresponsible. It is therefore necessary to correct the imbalance by adding fresh funds to the other health regions. The Council of State has previously announced, and the working case rapporteur, Saxi, was also concerned that this will be brought back into the 2009 state budget. With respect to reporting, one should already have been able to rectify some of the biases that have occurred in the past. It should have been possible in a country like Norway, with the economy that it has, to ensure that at least a fairer distribution of the health crowns has been made, to ensure that a person in Finnmark or in the West is as valuable as a person in the South East in terms of health crowns. We look forward, of course, to getting that case on the table in the 2009 budget, but I am disappointed that these funds have not already been put in place - at least some of them. We have a lot of challenges, but of course, a lot is also good. We have great employees who work and work every day to help our patients. But we also have drug-related challenges. We have seen that several private drug institutions here in the East have not renewed their agreements. I can mention Fossanåsen, who has not been offered an agreement, the ValdresKlinikken Foundation etc. On the rehabilitation side, we've seen that you actually don't follow up, despite all the parties saying that rehabilitation has to be the next big bet area. We have repeatedly stated that these private contract specialists must at least come within the system of free hospital choice, but the government has not done anything about it yet. The Advance Party has announced that, in the context of the revision of the budget, it will do something both in terms of rehabilitation and psychiatry, and not least in terms of misalignment and extra resources for hospitals. The councils and this government have now ruled for three years for the autumn. That is, the state council has been the top authority for the hospitals for three years. Unfortunately, one has not managed to reach a goal. The problems in the sector are significant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e196	One of the most frequently heard phrases in Norwegian today is the sentence: Norway is the richest country in the world. If you're a little bit more modest, you say Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. The problem is that Norway is becoming a clearer and clearer example of a general legality, namely that the greater the wealth in a society, the greater the problems of managing wealth in a sensible way. We have a resource use in health that's at the top of the world. If you ignore the United States, which has a completely different organisation and a completely different way of financing healthcare, Norway is the country that sovereignly spends the most money in relation to population size for health purposes. But the results we get back are not proportionate to the use of money. International comparisons - here I refer to two burning fresh surveys that assess the relationship between resource use and measurable health effects - show that Norway is at 16th and 18th place, respectively, and that we are heading downwards on these types of comparisons. The main problem is not that health businesses lack 1 billion, 2 billion or some other randomly chosen figure, but that they do not manage the $85 billion they have, in a way that produces results that are proportionate to the use of resources. Right supports the Council of State’s strategy of improving and clarifying the functional distribution of specialist health services in order to improve interaction between primary health services and specialist health services, and of developing local hospitals in a way that ensures that they perform the right functions with a reasonable use of resources. In addition, the right considers that we need to strengthen primary health services very strongly. We also need to organise the care component in a better way than today, to ensure that users receive a better offer at a lower level of specialisation than is the case today. There are twice as many older people with pneumonia who are hospitalized in Oslo, if you compare them with Stockholm. We have more infirmities in relation to population size in Norway than the average in Europe. Nevertheless, in parts of the Norwegian hospital system, we have a permanent corridor patient problem. One of the main reasons for this is that very many patients are excluded from primary health care, without having anything to do with it - or otherwise expressed: without adequate provision of the specialist healthcare service. This also gives us an irresponsible use of resources when it comes to the transport of patients back and forth between, for example. Hospitals and hospitals - not to the delight of patients, nor to the delight of others. We need to improve patient procedures in our hospitals. Hospitals are organised in vertical units, while patients move across these divisions. Studies indicate that nurses in Norwegian hospitals use up to one third of their working time to search for information, search for equipment, and search for medication. Too small a proportion of the working time of healthcare professionals goes to patient treatment, an excessive proportion of them agree to perform other functions. We need to give private actors a far greater leeway in challenging and complementing public health services. Reduced private use under this government has given increased waiting times and increased queues - 20,000 more per. average health queue years during this period. We need greater transparency about the quality of services. Public reports that compare quality across hospitals and departments are the condition that the principle of free hospital choice can come from the paper and out in reality. We need to separate the order role from the delivery roles of today's regional health companies. One of the biggest problems is that we've never managed to distinguish between these two roles. We should consider setting up regional health businesses in their present form, as there are more and more indications that they are inappropriate and unable to meet the tasks assigned to them. We should review and modify the ISF funding in order to ensure a much better patient trajectory than we have today, to ensure a more appropriate priority than we have today, and to do so in such a way that it realises the so-called LEON principle, that is. that all should be treated at the lowest effective level of treatment, instead of being kicked up in the specialisation system without any need to do so. Then I have some current challenges to the Council of State. Cooperation management started on the basis of NOU 2003: 1, Need-based financing of the specialist health service, efforts to correct the distortion of allocations to regional health establishments. A new review, by the Magnussen Committee, shows that Health West, Health North and Health Mid-Norway still receive too little of the total appropriations for the specialist health service. Yesterday's papers read that the spokesman of the Centre Party, Rune J. Kjellaaen, almost poses cabinet questions to his own government and wants it to strangle the appropriations to Health South-East. So the approach of the centre party is not to ensure that the other health businesses get what they need, but to ensure that health south-east gets less than they have. It's a funny approach, and it's a little important to find out what the government's policy is. If this is the government's policy, we must be informed. In the revised national budget, the right-hand side proposes to cover the 781 million. kr, as the Magnussen Committee says, lack of a fair allocation to the other three regional health establishments. I record that many red-green politicians today have a very high cigarette lead, but without having to draw any consequences in terms of trading. If you adopt the Right-wing proposal, the main thing will be corrected in the current year's budget - in 2008. My question is: does the Council of State think that this will be a good contribution towards solving the problem of bias, and in that case, should not the Government say about it? Or does she think that the most important thing is to wait until next year and make sure that health south-east gets as much as possible? The second challenge concerns the increased queues and the increased waiting time. In drug treatment, waiting time has increased by 20 days in the last six months. Health South-East cuts out 69 treatment sites in private drug institutions. What is the reason, at the discretion of the Council of State, for the increase in queues and waiting time, at a time when the Council of State boasts that the appropriations are historically high? And then finally to the same episode that the representative Nesvik was in, at the maternity ward at St. Olav's hospital. It is clear from the address newspaper of June 2 that a woman experienced the birth of her premature child during transportation in the hospital to a maternity ward. The woman had been in active birth for a period of several hours without being offered a free birthplace. Poor manning led to poor follow-up of the patient. According to the head of the clinic at the maternity ward, the incident is due to the death of a maternity ward and the closure of a maternity ward at the hospital. After the change was implemented, 107 non-conformities were recorded only at this one hospital. Does the Council of State feel that such austerity policy is sound? Can austerity policies be pursued in a way that simply poses a risk to life and health for women who are born and the children whom they are going to put into the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e232	We can hear music outside here now, but unfortunately it's probably not for the hospital reform a player plays. The time has come to take fundamental action in relation to the hospital reform. The Christian People's Party believes one needs much stronger governance with the contents of health policy, both from the Stortinget and from the Government's side. It must be alarming for the Government to see that today's system does not create the necessary trust in the people. Sickhouses don't just run under record high economic deficits. They also lack political leadership. I feel more and more that the Minister of Health has almost abdicated under the standard response: I have confidence in health care providers. Sickhouses have cut billions of dollars in the budget, and local hospitals have been laid down. Mandal hospitals are an example of this. One removes local hospital functions and bedposts. At Florø Hospital, the bed post is closed. This is contrary to the Government's promise. But the Minister of Health still has confidence. The question is how long people will have confidence in such a policy. Today's polls should be a good enough answer and a crossroads of thought for the Government. However, the main problem in hospitals is a fundraiser that has taken all the time off under a price system that sees the crowns and ear lead professional priorities. It's almost just about money and what pays. The Christian People's Party believes that there has been a unilateral emphasis on income management rather than cost management. That is why hospital funding needs to be redeployed. Reports show that, with the least needs, they have cut their waiting time more than they need. We hear stories that newborn children are being moved between hospitals - not according to what's best for the children or the family, but according to what the hospital thinks about money. We read in the newspapers that so-called profitable operations are prioritised. At a very low level, the Health Directorate can report that the economy over quality is governing the priorities being set. It has to be concluded that a priority should be given to profitable operations rather than to giving priority to the most ill patients. We can't have it like that anymore. We need a funding system that is more coherent across health services levels. We need less price and less money, and a greater focus on the patient, on quality and stability of services. As it is today, many patients experience themselves as throwing balls between different levels of the system. The government should design a new and better funding system for the comprehensive health service. We need a more coherent healthcare service from prevention and primary healthcare to specialist provision and rehabilitation. As many people, both Harald T. Nesvik and Inge Wohnning, have been involved, there is also an economic impact between health professionals. I agree that it's urgent to find a solution to this, and I wonder if the government in the revised national budget does not tell with a single word what process, time horizon or plan you have to follow up the Magnussen selection. The hospital reform has had an impact. There is too much store and too little policy. Reform must be rehabilitated. The Christian People's Party will provide the hospital reform with a proper provision of rehabilitation. We must not let the logic of the market strangle the basic values and the human vision on which the whole hospital is based: human dignity, care and love for the next.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e251	Nearly three and a half months have passed since the Council of State made its statement here in the Stortingen on the economic situation of health businesses. And it's been about six months since the Stortinge decided on the budget for the specialist health service, which is currently DKK 85-86 billion, while in 2002 it had a budget of DKK 35 billion. As explained by the Council of State, there has been a sharp increase in the number of annual work in the specialist health service - 2.7 pst. from 2002 to 2006. It is not difficult to explain why resource use is increasing in health. We live longer and longer. We live longer with disease. Technological developments have led to treatment with simpler interventions, and thus far more with lower health and older age can also be subject to lower-risk interventions. And isn't this a development we want? A long life with good quality of life? As citizens of a rich country, we have very high expectations for health care, both for our hospitals and for municipal health services. We expect them to be there when disease strikes. We are, as the budgetary situation also shows, willing to use large resources to meet these expectations. In this perspective, it is therefore essential that priority rules become the management tool of health enterprises. There is a lot - and that has been said - about how the hospital sector is organised. Political parties are probably part of programme processes where this is also an important topic. That's the same thing for the Center Party. Tomorrow we shall have a large internal seminar in which to discuss the whole of this sector. The case rapporteur, Kirsti Saxi, has a good approach to how the development of the specialist health service should be. She stresses the division of tasks, the need for centralisation in some areas, and the importance of decentralisation in other areas where it is important that the offer is close to the patient. The essential thing is that the services provided are of the highest quality. We don't know much about that yet, but the government has invested in systems to help one follow the patient through the Norwegian patient registry, and there's a lot to do to follow up this. In fact, agreements with the Municipal Councils in connection with interaction are very important. One has a common responsibility for patients, whether it's dying patients or people to be rehabilitated etc. It is very important that agreements be reached with the specialist health services and the community care services around. Agreements are concluded with local hospitals. It's very good, it's important and it works very well in many places. Then I have a few words about the Magnussen Committee and Inge Wage, which says I want to strangle Health South-East. I would like to encourage Inge Wohnning to read what I have said related to this. Then maybe he'll see that's not what I'm saying -- I'm saying something about where I think growth should actually be in regional health companies when it comes to allocating resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e268	On 26 February, the Council of State on the economic situation of health businesses in the country was, as many have said, a good history. We got to the right a little bit about large numbers as well -- we got to the right about the deficit in 2007. But there were very few solutions that were launched, or ideas on how to solve the major economic challenges ahead of the specialist services. One of the main issues, which has been the focus since the establishment of the health enterprise reform in 2002, is that the distribution of government transfers has been uneven across regions. There have been questions, and there have been down selections. It was a selection called the Hagen selection, and not least we have the Magnussen selection, which appeared to be setting this year and showed this bias that has gone down on Health West, Health Mid-Norway and Health North - i.e. half of Health-Norway. In February, the division of the discs and the Magnussen selection was largely mentioned. I think the Council of State made some sort of promise that she would come back as soon as possible--in an appropriate way, I believe it was said. That's a nice political way to say it. But as the representative of the Schjellaa and others have said, it is three and a half months ago. And "as soon as possible" - yes, it hasn't happened yet. I thought there was going to be something in the revised national budget, but there wasn't anything there -- nothing is mentioned. I have to admit that I was very disappointed in that, but I still believe that there are many more who are much more disappointed. Half of Sjukehus-Noreg, i.e. these three regions that I'm calling, must be very disappointed. That there is an unfair distribution of state transfers is particularly de motivating for those added to these transactions. Not least I think one should be aware that it would be very bitter to have to swallow cuts and cuts that might have been avoided if the distribution were correct. In its alternative proposal for the revised national budget, the left will start the creation of the biased distribution. We'll allow 390 million. kr, and in addition, we would like to suggest that the rest of the distribution of the bills should be corrected in the context of the 2009 state budget. The fact that the hospital sector must tolerate change in the light of medical-technological developments, the ageing process, etc., also means, of course, the Left, but we do not believe structural changes and major reorganisations are the only answer. In recent times, it has shown the effectiveness of hospitals in Finland. I admit that I do not know Finnish hospitals, but I still believe that better internal organisation in Norwegian hospitals has a significant potential. We have heard that reporting, searching for documents - as others have also said - and many meetings take between a third and half of the time from doctors, nurses and other health professionals. The last thing I heard was that a person spends a lot of time looking for the patients, and a serious suggestion was to put a tracking chip on the patients. There's probably something to pick up here. When we know that we spend $85 billion on the hospital sector, and that $60 billion goes to wages, we can easily understand that there's something to pick up if we can get a better organization. Finally, I'm just going to say that there's a great potential in what many people have had - and I know that the government is involved - simply interaction. We need better interaction between the primary health level and the level of specialist health and better efforts in rehabilitation and prevention. I have myself found that a proposal that we launched, on simple janitorial services, will save the Norwegian health community too much money. I think we have to follow them much stronger.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e283	I don't think there can be any doubt that Norway has one of the world's best health services. I record that someone is more interested in blackmailing than what is right, but it is a fact that in Norway we treat more patients than ever, and we can treat more and more. It is also true that Norway is of a special class in terms of health expectations. Perhaps we have, as Tage Erlander said at another time and on another matter, the discontent of rising expectations. Technology helps us to treat more and more in a more gentle way. Let me just use an example. Fortunately, today there is virtually no age limit to help people who have heart attacks. It's good to know that we can help more and more in an even better way. This makes more people stand in line. I think it's no problem that people are in line, because it's primarily an expression that we have a technology that luckily goes so fast that we can process more and more. And the waiting times? Yeah, they go up and down a little bit, but they're relatively stable. Sense if much is good -- for I think it is -- it's seaworthy so that in several areas it should and should be even better. I would like to comment on two of the examples that have been raised in the debate, for example. the situation in which a woman had to be born at the hall of St. Olav's hospital. I don't think that's acceptable. It's too bad control. It's too bad organization. Women must be sure that they receive food under safe conditions - whether it is at St. Olav's hospital or where it is now, at all times of the day and no matter what time it is in the year. I have taken that up with Health Mid-Norway, and I expect that it will be cleaned up and that it will not happen again. When it comes to the question of the man who was filmed in a bed in Haukeland Hospital, who had been lying for five days waiting to be operated on in an ankle, I say, "Then it's too poorly organized." It is not possible to deter that kind of example of money. I think that if it had been x number of heads, we could still have experienced the same thing. Then it's too poorly organized, and then it has to be taken care of. So we have - if the Storting joins the Government's proposal on pensions in the revised national budget - a sector that will receive $10.6 billion in one year's time! What other sector in this country can compete with it? No one. Then a question might be, is the answer then more money, or is the answer to see what we get for that money? Do we need to look at the funding system through transformations and reorganisations? I think there have been many constructive proposals, including: from the Right Party and the Christian Party. Yes, there are adverse events in today’s health care system. It probably did when both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party had the Council of State in the Ministry of Health, unfortunately. What is a big challenge, as Inge Wohnung points out, is to ensure that patients are treated in the right place at the right time. Today, too many patients are being treated in hospitals - the representative of Bohemia and others have been involved in it - who should have been treated at a different level. Interaction is one of our greatest challenges in the future. We simply need to improve the quality of our healthcare, while at the same time providing a more decentralised healthcare service. It's also about quality. Unfortunately, we in Norway, despite the fact that we spend so much historical money on this health care system, are located somewhat by comparable countries, for example. in the case of survival following some cancer operations, and in the case of stroke. Too many hospitals carry out too few operations to make them good enough. Imagine that in a country like Norway, there may be major discussions about performing the most demanding operations in the brain, neurosurgery, in one or two hospitals in the West! We all remember the big demonstrations that were, all newspaper posts and all the commitment that was. That's good with commitment. But if it's the case that we're not willing to let action follow words and goals, namely, having the best quality, then it wouldn't be that much to wonder about -- if it was right that neurosurgery should be treated in a place in the West. I record that there were also more people in this room who thought that this had to happen in two places, for example. This government believes that for quality reasons, we need to centralize more of cancer surgery. There are hospitals in this country that have one cancer operation this year. It doesn't have a goal. That is why we have put forward ideas and proposals on this in the revised national budget, and I am looking forward to what the Storting should think about it. We also propose, as we know, quite extensive changes to our emergency services, where we have received very clear indications from the State Health Authority that many of them are too poorly organised. Therefore, we propose to divide the hospitals that have emergency facilities into two. Some people have to deal with them with the most serious incidents, trauma teams, etc., and then we have to have hospitals with what we call adapted emergency services and emergency services. That's for people to get the best quality in the most acute situations. We also propose, where it is practicable and desirable, to combine emergency reception and medical care - also for quality reasons, so that a faster explanation can be found: What do patients need? Do they need to get into the hospital, or do they need urgent treatment and then get home again? This government's policy is to ensure equivalent services for all patients in all parts of the country. Together with great employees, who every day do their utmost to help people in a labour-intensive sector, and in a sector where there are constant changes, we want to further develop these services for the benefit of patients in close contact with users' organisations and employees' organisations. I hear that there are critical voices, I have heard it also here today, of the government of this demanding sector. I think it is important to have a debate on that. There's no reform or any system that's absolutely perfect-- neither this. This government has taken it seriously several times, and we believe that it is still potential for improvement. That's why I'm listening to the recordings that came here in today's debate, and also in the media earlier. That's one of the reasons why we've got multiple elected members of the government. That's one of the reasons we suggested to the Storting, and the Storting decided to join Health South and Health East to get back more quality for the patients. That's one of the reasons why one of the first things we did was to tackle the economy in this sector, which was absolutely necessary. When we got in, Health Mid-Norway was completely out to drive. They had a deficit of over 500 million two years ago. kr. Today, Health Mid-Norway can show a profit of 70 million. kr per. Now. That doesn't mean it's not demanding. That doesn't mean it hasn't been tough, but that means it's possible. It's actually, as the government sees it, absolutely crucial that in this field, as in all other areas, the economy is orderly to make it a right priority, to be able to provide patients with the best services. Then it doesn't just help to give more money to a system that doesn't always work as well as we all would like. Equivalence in offers also presupposes that we can get the fairest possible distribution of the money, seafaringly. One contribution to that is this sample, which several have been involved in, and which the Government put down, namely the Magnussen selection. As you know, that option has been out of wide consultation for three months, until 11 April this year, and many have submitted their opinions. I think we all record here that there are many strong opinions from different parts of the country that, as I experience it, follow the county boundaries more closely than they follow political boundaries. That is what I think I deserve a serious treatment, as it was also done from the previous government when the Hagen committee's setting was for treatment. Both when the Right had the Minister, and not least when Dagfinn Høybrätten was a minister, it was a very thorough treatment of the Hagen committee's position. That's what the government also adds in terms of the Magnussen selection. As I have explained earlier this spring, the regional health companies together for 2007 have not delivered financial results in line with the adoption of the Stortinget, and in line with the governance requirements set. Then I am not satisfied with the fact that they have delivered a total negative deviation of less than NOK 1.5 billion. That is why we have strengthened the follow-up of our health businesses. I also expect that several people have registered that we have replaced a quite significant part of the boards from January this year. There have also been consequences for someone at a different level. We have also decided to set up a selection of posts in all local health establishments, i.e. in hospitals. One of the biggest challenges in hospitals in keeping the economy in order is to have control of the growth of staff. That's why we've had to go to such a detailed step that we've actually done in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e315	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e319	I'll go into what's related to the bias distribution. For a long time now, we have seen a debate, both internally in the individual parties, in which the Council of State itself was involved, and not least in the media, on when and how to correct the distortion. In some debates and in some interviews that I have noticed, the Council of State has said that this will be addressed in the 2009 budget. They have not taken a stand or said anything about how these things should be done. We see that in the Health South-East region in particular, there are the main economic challenges. That is, you'll have a very big problem here if you reduce the allocation to give to the others. Can the Council of State here and now make clear that, yes, it will be included in the budget for 2009, and yes, will it do so by adding new, fresh funds and not reducing the appropriations to Health South-East?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e328	This government is committed to providing equivalent healthcare throughout the country, regardless of background, the size of the wallet, etc. Then we have to have a financing system that supports it. The revised national budget is a revision of the budget. The Magnussen Committee is proposing quite significant changes. It's as well-known as a unanimous setting. There's an enormous commitment around this case. I believe that this matter - as the setting from the Hagen Committee - deserves a very good, thorough and serious treatment. The government is suggesting that we come back with our proposal in the state budget for the autumn. Then we're also going to make sure that anyone who thinks anything about this, and there are many, is allowed to express their opinion. I would otherwise like to remind you that the Hagen Committee, for which the previous government was responsible, proposed that there should be a transitional arrangement of five years. It was here in the house later negotiated down to four using the Progress Party, but our government decided that this would happen in three years, by adding money that the Stortinge decided in 2006-2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e337	"It's not a problem that people are in line," said the Council of State. She has said that repeatedly before as well. She even gets it almost to sound like a good thing that people are in line - the more, the better, because that means that the offer is getting bigger and bigger. There are at least two problems with this position. One problem is that it is not true. During the hearings on this matter in the committee I allowed myself to point out that the statistics show that there are fewer patients referred to the specialist healthcare service year after year. So the explanation given by the Council of State is simply not correct. The second problem is that the result of the increasing queues is that more and more people buy themselves out of the queue by paying 100 pst. It's self. It occurs in the best circles. Nor does the Council of State see it as a problem that the increase in the purchase of private health insurance has been dramatic during this government, i.e. That the cold syndrome leads us to just get the two-part health system that the Council of State says you don't want? Someone's traveling in first class. The others have to travel in a different class.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e344	Firstly, the representative's salary probably does not represent me correctly on all points. As far as the queue is concerned, the representative knows that I have said very many times that I believe there is no problem in itself that people enter the queue. I mean -- and we can only look at medical technology -- that we can treat more and more patients. Let me use another example. Before people were born deaf, they often had to remain deaf. Today, as the representative knows, we can operate a little thing behind the ear, and people can get a whole different life and hear. This is an example of how it is good to get in line for treatment. But you're supposed to be in that line as soon as possible. Then it is very good that we can show that the waiting times are relatively stable. I also want to remind you, and this representative knows very well, that 66 pst. of all patients in Norwegian hospitals come in for immediate help. The people who are left have to wait for something, but that time is also stable. In the case of private health services, this government believes that it is an important complement to public health services. That is why we have also had agreements with them for many years. 90 pst. by our team members are also known as private doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e355	The councils were busy telling history for their reign. It might be tempting to ask what she thought about the developments in Health South-East when it relates to the situation under the Bondevik II government in relation to the economic situation we see today, with a deficit of NOK 1.5 billion. In Question Time on 30 April, I was delighted to ask the Prime Minister what he meant about the medical hotel. Then the Prime Minister said that it was not appropriate to go into this with political over-control. He said that this was health care professionals saying the matter, and that one would not go in and rule there. Luckily, I will say, during the week afterwards, the Council of State intervened with political direction. I think that's positive. I think there is a need for far greater political governance. I would like to ask the State Council the following questions: Is this a new signal? Is this specific case an example of more political governance now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e362	It is clear that this sector has been politically overthrown. But as you know, the Boards are their own legal entities and have to make their judgements. As far as the medical hotel is concerned, I believe everyone saw that there was a case where a solution had to be found. It was wrong almost no matter what you did in that case, which had a very unfortunate history. In Norwegian health care, we do not want any major projects to be started without a permit and the necessary authorisation. So Health South-East, together with the Cancer Association, came up with a model that was in the best interests of cancer patients, a model that many in other parts of the country can also benefit from, because it's about something more than a hotel, a treatment offer for learning and mastering. I would therefore like to say in general about Health South-East: there is no doubt that they are in a difficult situation. There is also no doubt that I am not satisfied with the economic development of this health region. That's why we're following this very closely. Then we should also remember that they are now in the middle of one of Norway's largest reorganisations, with 110 employees after the merger, and with this region there are major changes in the path that will benefit the whole country, not least by the fact that we will eventually get more specialists out into the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e371	Hospital management is not easy. A former prime minister in England, Tony Blair, said it was harder to control the English hospitals than it was to deal with the Iraq crisis. It's hard, and we all know that. The Council of State said that she has made strong efforts to improve governance by replacing board members at record speed. I'm not sure there's a solution. There must be some good processes. Governments also say several times that the processes of adding, bringing with professionals at local level, bringing with people in the municipalities, the whole population, are important. We hear -- at least I'm doing it -- all the time about bad processes. We heard about it in the capital process. We heard about it in Health Førde. Trust on a low target. Are these just skin processes, or how my councillors that we should get more trust in these processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e380	Firstly, I fully agree with Mr Ludvigsen's representative that good processes are essential for achieving good results. Unfortunately, we have had some examples that there have not been good enough processes, either with employees, with users or with the local environment. That's why I'm stressing it very much to the health companies. In the case of Health South-East in particular, and the demanding situation they face in connection with the capital process, I have the impression that it is quite good processes - at least that's the signal I get from the main organisations when I meet them. Then there are seared shades in solutions. Some people think it should have been a little slower, and others think that now it should have been really decided, so they know what they have to do with. But we still feel that they feel involved. It also applies to user organisations, and is crucial for a successful outcome in such a difficult transition as this is. But it also applies to small conversions - so it applies to both large and small - so we follow it very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e387	Governments have shown a number of engagements with the drug field. I think that's very commendable. Now we see that in the Health South-East area, in connection with the conclusion of agreements on drug treatment sites - we are not talking about LAR treatment, but drug treatment sites - have not agreed with Fossanåsen and have reduced the Bue Foundation and ValdresKlinikken. This is an area where there are actually long waiting lists. The waiting time has also increased significantly, as we heard in the representative of Inge Wohnning's posts. What will the Council of State do in a matter like this? Russ and psychiatry have been taken out as the two main areas where a real solution is really going to be put in place. This applies to people who have been under treatment for many, many years. Will the Council of State take an initiative towards Health South-East to ensure that we now use the places that are actually available, so that the queues can go down and more drug users can get help with their abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e394	There is no doubt - I fully agree with Mr Nesvik - that the Ru area is an area in which we are not at all in the target. There's a lot of work done. This is true in many places in the country. But I have to add something. I understand that the Advance Party is an avid follower of tenders, at least in a good number of other areas, and in the case of tenders, a few will no, and some will get yes. What is then the case is what is called competition under conditions in this sector. But in the case of the tendering procedure that has been in Health South-East, i.e. Old Health East, it's like they spend more money this year than they did last year. 60 pst. of what they use, concerns the purchase of private services. What they've been busy about - which I think is right, without me taking a position on all those who have received or have not received - is that we in the care area, as in other areas, must be of quality. People who are drug addicts do not always get good quality in their treatment services. They have received a good bed, and they have received good care and good food - and it is also important - but they have not received enough help to get out of the problem they have. Therefore, it is essential that we also receive good quality offers for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e401	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e405	First of all, I would like to address the proposals to the Progress Party. That is, as we hear in the debate today, many different understandings of the state of the Norwegian health care system. We are under the same sky, but it is beyond doubt that the horizon is very different. It has been and is such that Norwegian health services do excellent work in many areas. I think there's a lot of consensus about that in this room. But will we continue to glorify what works well, when we all know that there are major unresolved problems? One of the tasks that needs to be solved is that the queues in Norway - almost independently of diagnosis - have increased during today's government. It's in psychiatric care. It's about drug problems. But also in surgery and somatics, waiting time and queues increase. Then it's sad that we have a government council that says that she has no problem with people waiting in line. I think the 220 000 standing in line have a slightly different sense of reality. Here it is only necessary to establish that the government's policy is going wrong. Only in the last year has the number of patients in queue in Norway increased by over 20,000. It is amazing to learn that in Norway we have a government that does not give priority to treating as many patients as possible, but rather prioritises dealing with too low a financial framework. The current ISF scheme suggests that hospitals are losing money on operating. It goes without saying that the result will be less effective and less patient treatment. Then you can wonder who this is going on. Are those who have well-paid jobs standing in a condition of health or their families? No, as I see it, everyone in well-paid jobs has both advice and the opportunity to buy themselves out of the queue, either by contacting hospitals directly or through health insurance. But can ordinary people with normal purchasing power carry this out? In most cases, the answer is no. In other words, today's government implements a policy that promotes class distinctions in Norway - a class distinction based on the individual's ability to pay for the treatment of his or her own health. This is a consequence of the government's policy. In its presentation, the Minister of Health and Welfare addressed very little of the solutions that you are looking at, from the Government’s point of view. We have to get solutions for the 220 000 that are in line. We have to solve the problems of several thousand drug addicts in line. It is also a paradox that the need for rehabilitation is increasing while the Government is pursuing a policy which means that every six rehabilitation beds in private institutions were not included in contracts with health enterprises. We have underfunded pension challenges. We have major challenges in developing effective cooperation between primary health services and specialist health services. We have to correct the bias, but it has to be done in such a way that the patients who are subject to Health South-East do not get in trouble. That's why we have to bring in fresh funds. Hospitals are continuing to carry out new tasks, without necessarily providing funds to solve the new tasks. Technological and medical developments warrant this. The funding model being used today has little predictability in itself, in the opinion of the Progress Party. Political decisions taken in mid-December shall be implemented from 1 January of the following year. It should be clear that such a system does not stand for long-term and good economic governance. In addition, where a number of tasks under hospital budgets are not fully funded, such as: care and rehabilitation, to which health businesses have been assigned, it goes without saying that predictability is being removed. It is high time to put in place a hospital proposition, in line with the municipal proposition, which would contribute to a greater degree of long-termity and economic space for the individual enterprise. At the end - eight out of ten hospital directors support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e424	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e429	I have listened with interest to the debate and to the intervention of the Council of State. I would like to say without delay that I agree with her that much is very good in Norwegian healthcare, and we have a lot to be proud of, both government and big business. But it is now such that our job as politicians is primarily to correct what is not going so well. What worries me after this debate is that the hospital reform that was carried out in 2002 is becoming quite friendless in Stortinget. It's actually just the Council of State and her own party that really stands behind the reform as it's now evolved. That is what I think the Council of State should be offensively signaling that a new approach should be taken to reform the reform. The Christian People's Party will not go in to scrape it or throw wrecks at it, but we want to reform it, and I want to challenge the Council of State on something she herself took up. Interaction, says the Council of State. Will the Council of State support a new funding system that creates a more holistic and coherent treatment chain between the different stages, from prevention to rehabilitation, which also intervenes in the municipal sector? It takes a hard investigation to do that. Will the Council of State take the initiative? Quality, the Council of State said. The Council of State will listen to the criticism as, among other things, are professional reports of the effect of the high level of price financing on hospitals? This is a debate we have had in many rounds, and it is not necessary to re-open old debates, but I ask: will the Council of State take it inward and place less emphasis on the price of a piece and more emphasis on professional quality and priority? It's a grip that's relatively easy to make. "Government," said the Council of State. Then my question is: will the Council of State continue to develop more and better policy-making tools in this sector? I think it's necessary. I recognise that the Government has tried, but I don't think putting political Commissioners into health company boards has been particularly successful. On the other hand, the presentation of a health policy document to the Stortinget, as a governance basis, is a step forward. Equivalence, the Council of State said. Then we come to the question of what the Council of State and the Government intend to do with the distribution of bias. For the post held by the Council of State and the answers she has just given to the Storting leave a big question, namely whether the Government really recognises that there is a division of inequalities between health businesses. The whole of Norway is calling for that answer. Of course, we give the government the right to come to Stortinget with an elaborate proposal, but we want to know: Does the government recognize that it is a problem, and does the government intend to do anything about it? Party Secretary Martin Kolberg said to Mr Stavanger Aftenblad on 24 May this year that this bias should have been removed before the elections. The question is whether the Council of State can confirm that Party Secretary Kolberg is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e446	I want to follow up on a little of what several representatives have mentioned regarding the distribution of bias. In a press release in Avisa Nordland on Tuesday 3 June, it is reported that nine county councillors and county rapporteurs, including the former Council of State, now head of county council in Nordland, Odd Eriksen, have sent a letter to the Minister, in which they rage against the division of inequalities between health businesses. In the letter they claim that there will be a very serious abuse of power against almost half of the nation's population if it is not cleared up in this. In their letter, they consider it impossible to cut in Health South-East – which is also agreed by the Christian People's Party – but they are asking that the health business framework be increased by DKK 1.4 billion already in the 2009 budget, and that the increased appropriations be allocated to the three health businesses that have fallen poorly. In the Christian People's Party, we expect that when the signals from the government's own weapons donors in the health regions are so clear, this will be resolved in the next budget, for 2009. So a little bit about the situation of the local hospitals. There is considerable concern about the debate on the future of local hospitals, and it is also very much about economics. No local hospital should be closed, but what should local hospitals do in the future? This is where most of it floats for the time being. It is built down without control, and thus the nearest local hospital has considerably more patients. I refer you to the Helgelands Hospital Sandnessjøen, which has now come into a situation where they have the corridors covered and the bad economy. They don't have the economy to deal with so many. I refer to the debate on maternity care, on surgical emergency preparedness and on any specialisation in relation to task allocation and the relationship between the first line service and the second line service. Today, most of the economy is governed, and the debate on quality in the treatment has largely taken place. Let it be clear: local hospitals are to be maintained and they are to address the acute needs of the neighbourhoods for hospital services. It means, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, a good supply of food and acute surgical and medical preparedness. Furthermore, there is an alarming need for geriatric competence to meet the major challenges we face in the care of the elderly. The Christian People's Party now assumes that work is speeding up the contents of the local hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e466	There is a lot of positive happening in Norwegian hospitals. At the same time, we face many challenges. A lot can get better, but everything can't be solved with money alone. But one major challenge that we are facing, both can and should be solved by fresh means, and it will be done as soon as possible. I then aim for the serious imbalance we have had for far too many years between health regions. Health reform should ensure equivalent health provision across the country, which the Minister of Health has also established here today. We're talking about a matter that goes right into the heart of moral and ethical equality. It will be immoral of government and magnificence not to correct it as soon as possible. It scares me that prominent politicians from the Workers' Party dare to doubt whether the three health regions - Health West, Health Mid-Norway and Health North - are getting too little money, despite the fact that two samples of the country's leading professionals in the field have determined that the distribution of inequalities is a reality. What is the competence of the Workers' Party's representatives Jan Bøhler and Signe Eye that enable them to rise above the country's leading professionals in the field, and on what basis? From my point of view, such an appearance is both immoral and highly unprofessional. Right does not want to take from Health South-East. Right will clean up the bias by fresh means. Already in the context of the revision, we will continue the work we started in the Cooperation Government. Between Health Mid-Norway and More and Romesdal there is now a hospital hazard in too many acts that are unworthy of the health sector. It's all in the hands of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, who, at the brink of the last election campaign, came in helicopter to Møre and Romesdal and promised to speed up the realization of new Molde hospitals and new children's ward in Ålesund if the companies had the power to balance. The companies are in balance, but both Prime Minister and Minister of Health shift responsibility to Health Mid-Norway, which has major challenges with St. Olav's hospital. According to the estimates of the Magnussen Committee, the distribution of the records amounts to a significant amount of insufficient funds for Health Mid-Norway, calculated from 2002 to 2008. We are now experiencing a war of exhaustion between the Government, the board of Health Mid-Norway and the hospitals in Molde and Ålesund. I want to ask the government council and the government parties to gather, take responsibility and clean up the unworthy game that we believe the Prime Minister has started between the board in Health Mid-Norway and the two hospitals in Moor and Romesdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e481	‘Home location does not decide in policy’, said Sylvia Brustad, Minister of Health and Welfare, to Stavanger Aftenblad, June 3rd this year, when she was confronted with the consequences of the misalignment. No, the place of residence should not determine how the money between health businesses is distributed, but the place of residence is really important today for which health services are provided in Norway. The inhabitants of Health West, Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord get a worse health offer than the inhabitants of Health South-East. It is more difficult to get rehabilitation after a hospital stay in Health West. It is more difficult to get drug treatment in the Health West. Access to laboratories and x-ray services is more difficult for the inhabitants of these regions. There are worse ambulances in these regions than there are in Health South-East. So home doesn't decide anything in politics, but in Norway, home decides something about what health services you get. This is a matter of urgency. If the Government acknowledges that there is a problem, I would advise the Government to do something about it now by adding fresh funds to the revised national budget to these health businesses. It will facilitate efforts to achieve this in the 2009 Grand elections, for Party Secretary Martin Kolberg has promised the Health West population that the Minister of Health will be in the process of this establishment within that time. The objective of this should not be to reduce the level of health services provided to the health population of the South-East to the level of the inhabitants of the West Health, but to raise the other three regions to the level currently in Health South-East. In my opinion, the bidding round in Health South-East in the case of alcohol is clearly contrary to the drug reform to which the Stortinget joined. One of the main aims of the drug reform was to provide drug users with long-term rehabilitation services in the specialist health service. That is the opposite of what happens when Health South-East says that a specialist healthcare treatment offer should have a six-month limitation. There is no one who has lived most of his life in drug addiction, who is able to be rehabilitated in six months. The waiting time for an offer today is twice as long as the treatment offer will be when this is completed. This is contrary to the Russian reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e490	Norway has one of the world’s best health services. We've heard that many times both here today and a number of times before. For each year running, the average age in Norway increases by 70 days. The most increasing age group is those over 90 years of age, suggesting that we have a good health care system in Norway. We are currently spending 85 billion kroner on the specialist health service. Never before have more money been spent in this area, never before have more specialists in the specialist health service been employed, never before have more patients been treated, and patients have been offered new treatment methods that have not been offered before, never before have more been invested in new buildings and new medical devices across the country – and never before have more complaints been made than today. It's like that drawing in the VG of a guy who's on the table after eating himself really saturated, and he says, "Now I'm so tired that I'm really annoyed." Quality over quantity is important. Therefore, this government and the Council of State have had a major focus on the division of tasks between hospitals, that hospitals do the right things in relation to what they are good at, the place of the local hospitals, the district medical centre, food supply, rehabilitation plan, diabetes plan, dental plan, psychiatry plan, etc. There has been a strong focus on the quality of service provision and not necessarily on quantity, and that is why both patients and citizens are concerned. Of course, it's very unfortunate that today we see individual cases where people don't get the treatment they need, or the quality of treatment they might have wanted, not least in relation to what we saw both in Bergen and at St. Olav's hospital. And then the government immediately says that something like that can't be found in it. Resources are more than enough of them, but how do we organise services? Every summer it is about food offerings that are to have holiday closure etc. There's nothing new coming, but it's about governance, it's about organizing around this. We have so many skilled professionals, we have leaders, we have rulers. We have seen that Health Middle Norway from being the worst in the class has become the best in the class both in terms of control and treatment. So to this with an economic impact on the Magnussen Committee. It was this government that set up the Hagen Committee, it was this government that put down the Magnussen Committee. The previous government had neither the ability nor the will to do the grips that this government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e503	We live in the richest country in the world, and Norway is now the world's best country to live in. But the news on TV 2 yesterday about the bias and the situation we have at Stavanger University Hospitals doesn't reflect the words that we live in the world's best country. I'm sure if they had said it to her that I saw lying as a corridor patient in Stavanger yesterday, she didn't recognize herself in the description. The government is talking so much about value debate. It launches that next year the election campaign will be about values, and the election will be a question of values. If not the health we give to the population of the country, it's about a value debate, I don't know. Today's government doesn't answer that question. Every day we can read about the crisis in Health-Norway. Only in Stavanger is now 40 weeks waiting time to get MR for those who are involved in a gene project. The waiting time is 24 weeks on CT. For patients who are hospitalised and waiting for MR, there is also waiting time, and now they are going to close the MR offer for those who are on the waiting list this summer. Diseases don't take a summer break. The country’s finest emergency response is not fully implemented because it cannot be recovered. All this boils down to budgets and budgetary discipline. The employees are in despair. The only thing they hear is that we have to keep the budgets - we have to keep the budgets. The patients are despondent, the opposition is despondent. Now it's kind of nice, because now politicians from the government parties are starting to despair. The only person who hasn't taken this on board is the Minister of Health. The situation in Health-Norway is so serious that even a justice politician has to engage in this debate. We can no longer have these conditions in Norway. The bias distribution that we see now, the government has to correct. I almost never thought I'd say that, but still, when the government can't listen to the Progress Party, I must urge the Minister of Health to listen to his own big-time politicians, so that we can correct the imbalance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e518	Security for life and health takes us more than ever. We want to be safe for help with acute illness, we want security for rehabilitation to master the daily life after illness and injury, and we want drug users who want to put the daily drug behind them, to also get an offer to do so. It is essential for the population to know that the quality and width of the health service are not to be determined by postal code - in or outside the eastern part of the country. It is a reality that Health Nord has major challenges in getting budgets to extend, and it is also a reality that patients and the population in the north have to travel longer and wait longer for many treatment services than in central parts of Norway. Population developments in North Norway are, as everyone knows, going in a negative direction, and at the same time we do not need a public health service that is being followed, and which can, rather, act as a driver of a pre-negative development. 200 million. NOK is a lot of money, and there is little doubt about that 200 million. kr also affects the design of the health service in Health Nord, and the quality and width of the offer to be made. It is enough that the action and decision-making power that was present when a solution was to be found for the patient hotel at the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital, which one found in record time, is noticed. Then it is equally disappointing to record the Government’s decision refusal regarding the follow-up to the Magnussen Committee report. It's also surprising that the same government as those degrees likes to profile themselves on the importance of good public health services, which likes to profile themselves on equality - that there should be no difference between people wherever they live in the country - today shows so little willingness to clean it up to the degrees of unfair financial funding of our hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e527	I noticed that the representative Asphjell followed the classic advice of the speaker who had written in the manuscript: raise the voice, the arguments are weak. It's not like anywhere in the world that some people live by selection settings. Political life cannot consist of competing for who has appointed which selections at what times. The question is who is delivering results. And here there is a concrete opportunity for the Storting to do something in the current year, and with effect for the current year. The Council of State has not responded to the challenge I raised, and as the representative Højbrätten also addressed, what the Government really intends to do in this matter. The representative of Skjälaa said I should read what he said. Yeah, that's actually what I've been doing. It is presented by the journalists in the U.N.B. under the heading ‘Sp will strupe Health South-East’, and it actually covers the exact statement that for the Central Party it is vital that Health South-East does not receive a single penny of the expected budget increase next year. If he says that, this is the whole party behind it, and this is where the party falls. It is such an alarming cabinet question within the Government that it must be reasonable to expect that the Council of State has a small hint of how the Government as a whole views this. And then, the representative Asphjell repeatedly said that the Council of States has a very big focus on both the one and the other and the third and the fourth and the fifth. I'm not an expert on photography, but I suspect that the greater the focus, the more blurred the image becomes. And that's actually what the whole problem is: there are no clear priorities in terms of overall government intervention. But it is alarming that the objective and ambition behind the hospital reform that a worker party government introduced, namely that waiting times should be shorter, and that the queues should be shorter, has now been explicitly written down by the Council of State that it is good enough if they do not increase significantly. Can't the Council of State itself hear that this is approaching self-declaration, this is about to throw the cards in a reform that the party itself initiated?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e537	The representative's pay is good at talking, but it won't be more right for that reason, and especially not because it repeats many times. Because when the representative again claims that this government does not do anything, that it does not know what it is doing, and that it does not prioritize, he must have followed extremely poorly in the hour. This government has focus, and has in action -- I assume there's some reason why we get a lot of mouth -- shown that it's being converted to improve quality, not least neurosurgery and a lot of other things. Unlike the government of which the Right was a member, this government has taken over the financial management of the sector. We have proposed, and fortunately we have been adopted in the Stortinget - also by means of the Right - to join Health South and Health East. It's one of the biggest shifts in Norwegian history. It's also done to get more out of what we input, not least the human resources. And we run even closer than I think the last government was near. This is also the case, whether the representative does not like to hear it, that the waiting times are relatively stable. 66 pst. of all patients come in for immediate help. Of those who have to wait, it is the sickest that comes first, and there we have a clear deadline for priorities. And then it's probably also a goal to come down further, but it's not right that the waiting times have had any significant increase. On the other hand, I think that the representative, Høybräten, had many constructive contributions. I think that we are, and should be, open to looking at adjustments to how we control this sector. In terms of interaction, which several speakers have been involved in here, the government is working to see if we can get a better funding system, which is not in the way of a seamless patient trajectory, as many are concerned about. In terms of quality in relation to ISF, which I assume is what the representative Højbrätten is thinking about, it is, first of all, completely wrong when hospitals use it down to department and post level. It's taken care of. So we're also going to have a discussion, but it's clear that the ISF bets have been very much up and down. Here it's also about predictability and what we want in relation to it, but it's not the store that's supposed to run, it's not the economy -- it's the patients, the people, the people who need it the most, that's going to come first. So this government, with which the representative Høybråten is well known, has presented the National Health Plan, the first in Norwegian history. We'll get back to that. I think it was constructive input also about it. Finally, in the case of the Magnussen selection, when this government put down the Magnussen selection, it wasn't for fun. That's because we had some thoughts behind it. I think this matter deserves the same serious treatment as the Hagen Committee when the Højbrätt was Minister of Health - in the government of which the Right was part, and which Bondevik directed - namely that a user spends time going through it properly. However, it is not very long from the end of the hearing on 11 April and until the government makes its proposal in the budget in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e552	I welcome the constructive response of the Council of State to my challenge of reforming the reform. I want a much more offensive approach than just looking at the issues. Because there is an answer that is often given, and there leaves an uncertainty about the degree of commitment and willingness to do something about it. So I want the Council of State to move on, from looking at the stage of action to the stage of action, in terms of the needs there is to take action in the reform in order to bring about a greater whole between the different stages of the chain, so that the patient course can be seen more together, and in terms of reducing the focus on economics and crowns rather than quality and patient treatment. Then I have to go back to what the council didn't respond to, the question of the division. There is no one in this room, I think, who wants an unprofessional treatment of the Magnussen Committee's report. But the government has had the Magnussen committee report on the table since mid-January. Now let's write June. There's been a hearing in the meantime. It ended almost two months ago. Then it wouldn't be unreasonable if the Storting asked to know: What has the government thought? Does the Government recognize that there is a bias? Yeah, the selection wasn't put down for fun. No, we're not asking the question for fun either, because there's a lot of people outside the country asking, does the government recognize that it's a bias, and does the government intend to do anything about it? I don't demand here and now exactly the exact answer to what the government will do, but I think it's reasonable in the light of the great commitment that's all over the country, that the Council of State answers whether she intends to do anything about it, and whether she acknowledges that it's a biased distribution. Then I want to say a little bit in relation to some of the debate that is going on. Party Secretary Martin Kolberg has been quoted here. He says this should be removed before the election. I would like the Council of State to give a concrete answer as to whether that is the case. The party colleague Signe Øye has said - according to Bergen's Official Journal 26 May: "When this" - i.e. the Magnussen Committee's setting - "to be adopted in Stortinget is the number of heads that apply. Then we are politicians from the south-east in majority." I would ask the Council of State to clarify that the Government is thinking about the whole country, thinking about an equivalent healthcare service, and is concerned about justice and not counting heads. If it is the meat weight that is to be applied in health policy hereafter after we received Health South-East - as the government decided well to label on the chamber, it was not adopted here in Stortinget, as the Council of State wrongly said - this health reform will be further discredited. It must be that the government takes overall political responsibility to ensure that we have a fair distribution of the health funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e568	Every day, we see the effects of savings in health businesses. Every day you see the consequence of having a biased distribution. It is a fact that if, for example: Mid-Norway or Health West had received the share of the appropriations that they should have had under the Magnussen Committee, they had actually received more than what they are now forced to make more efficient and save for the current year. Brustad State Council does not respond to this question, and I would like to ask that she now shortly give a signal as to how you intend to address this issue. There's a significant difference between saying that we're going to reduce health to the south-east to give a little bit to the others, and saying yes, we're going to correct the bias, and we're going to do it using fresh funds. The inhabitants of this country deserve an answer. The hearing was completed in mid-April. The Council of State and the Government have the opportunity to correct at least parts of this imbalance already in the revised national budget, and then use the time until next year's budget to look at the total contribution. But you have to start now, because, as I said, every day we see the consequences of there being a bias here. So a little bit of rush and not least to what Jorod Asphjell was into, that we have so many plans. We've done so much. We've made so many plans. We have a health plan, we have a dental plan, we have a diabetes plan, we have a COLS plan. But the problem is the lack of follow-up of these plans. It's not the number of plans that are missing, but it's the fact that we get them put into life. Even in the case of rushes and tenders, it is wrong to attack the tendering principle as a result of the lack of agreement between these institutions. This is the tender document, i.e. the content of the tender, and one has to consider that it is the long-term sites that are now being lost. It is the time that drug addicts actually need to be rehabilitated so that they can become drug free and live a normal life afterwards, which is the defect. And that's where I challenge the Council of States to make an enquiry to Health South-East, so that you can conclude this kind of agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e579	The representative of Inge Wohnung has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e582	Three brief comments. We have taken hold of and merged Health East and Health South, said the Council of State. I have to remind you that this happened on the basis of a proposal from the Right and the Advance Party in this room. It was not the initiative of the Council of State. We have presented a national health plan for the first time in Norwegian history, said the Council of State. It's a notorious mistake. The only thing that is the first time in this context is that a government has had to introduce a national health plan that is annexed to the annual budget paper. No government has ever done that before. And then the last point: Under this government, one has been able to reverse the trend from the previous period with a reduction in the number of carbonists of 20,000 per. year to year: an increase of 20,000 per year. years. The explanation is not that there is an increasing number of patients in the specialist healthcare system. Last year the number went down, while the queue increased. In that case, the Council of State must provide a better explanation: that this is the reason for the increase in offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e593	The representative's salary quote, and he's kind of quoting single lines and single verses of what's said and written. I thought as a theologian he knew that you should see the verses in context, what context things are put into. What I'm very clear about what I've said about the Magnussen Committee is, among other things. that the growth should take place in the other three health regions. So we know the capital process, we know the aggregation of Health South-East, where the assumption is that one should streamline and save resources in this region. So what I've said is actually not that unreasonable. So a person should see these things in context and not engage in persuasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e600	With regard to the follow-up to the Magnussen Committee, I am very well aware, after a while of the speed of this house, that opposition and position have different roles to play. But to this matter, I have to say that it was the then Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbrätten who received the Hagen Committee's position in December 2002, and it was the Bondevik government that proposed a new redistribution, which was otherwise quite different from what the Hagen Committee had set up, in October 2003, i.e. roughly after approx. 10 months. This government is asking to be allowed to have an equally serious treatment - and deliver in a shorter time than the then Bondevik government did. That's what we're talking about here. Then I can assure you that it is clear that we intend to do something, and both the Storting and the inhabitants will get our proposal on what we want to do. I can also make sure that it's not going to be the number of inhabitants in a region, or those who scream the highest, who are going to to some extent be decisive for what the Government is going to propose to the Storting. It's not the kind of argument that impresses me. Let's just make it clear. And that applies to both of these sides. So we're coming back, and we're going to do it in a very real way. In the case of drugs and health south-east, which the representative Nesvik is concerned with, it is not right that it should also be placed in long-term places in the old Health East. And then you almost have to understand, from what the Progress Party says, that when you have bidding rounds, that means that everyone is going to get. But there must be others who get no, because the nature of the offer is that someone gets yes and someone gets no, and then maybe you don't like that someone has got no that might have got yes. But that's what this is, and it's pretty hard. But I'm following this very, very carefully. Then I would like to say to the representative Røbekk Nørve, who is here concerned with the Molde Hospital and Ålesund and criticized the Prime Minister for not keeping the promises that have been made. We have promised, Prime Minister, me and more, that there will be a new hospital in Molde. It's coming. We've promised a new children's ward in Ålesund. It's coming too. But that had to be the order of the economy in Health Mid-Norway. I'm going to visit both hospitals on Tuesday. I'm happy to talk to both employees and users. But I would remind Røbeck Nørve that if this government had not cleaned up along with the excellent Kolbjørn Almlid and his employees in Health Mid-Norway and the board and administration also at St. Olav's hospital and made sure that this region has now gone from a deficit of 500 million. NOK 70 million in profit. kr, the hospital in Molde and the children's ward in Ålesund would have been completely blue. That's the reality, and then I think maybe the Right should also take it a little bit calmer when they criticize this government. We are going to follow up on what we have promised, also in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e611	There have been a lot of constructive posts here today, including from the Right. I think of the representative for the payroll's first post, which I listened to with interest. But then there have also been some provocative posts, not least from the right. Although I'm one of the youngest in this room, I'm going to take the chance of a never-small history description of this with skepticism. Right-wing representative Røbekk Nørve said we've had a division for too many years. But the reason we've had it is that the previous government made up a transition period of five years for what the Hagen committee in its time came to realize. And as the Council of State was about: There in the farm it wasn't about correcting the biased distribution that the Hagen committee documented, in a revised budget. But you put up and wrote in the big message from the government that Right was part of, that you had to fix it over a period of five years. Then it was negotiated down to four years, and then this government solved it in three years, as the Council of State has explained. The same representative from the Right also said that we red-green dare to doubt whether the bias should be corrected. Then I would like to remind you that the Right even left no doubt that the biases documented by the Hagen committee were not to be corrected. On the contrary, they wrote in the big message they themselves promoted, among other things. on this matter, that they should rectify 50 pst. of that bias and based the rest on historical conditions, maybe because you didn't see the advice to correct everything, or maybe for other reasons. In addition, a special Health Nord grant was introduced, not provided by the Hagen Committee, but by the government itself, to be financed by the underfunded regions, namely Health West and Health Middle Norway. So here it's obvious to me that several of the Right's own representatives have greater hopes for the sitting government than they had for their own, and I think that in and on their own is positive. So I would also like to say about the level of budgetary appropriations that it is not just that we have the highest level of appropriations ever. It is often mentioned that budgets are always going up. But it's also that we have the greatest increase ever, and that must be interesting. Now we can probably discuss growth and numbers and things and weigh them in many different ways. But as it was produced in the Bondevik government's own budget, the hospital appropriations increased by - as far as I can remember at least - 570 million. kr in the 2005 budget, before it was correctly increased by half a billion dollars in the Stortinget. In 2006, which was the last financial year of the Bondevik government, there was an increase in - as far as I can remember - 700 million. kr, before the current government increased by half a billion dollars after it took over. In comparison, then, in 2008 it was added to NOK 3.4 billion, plus funds for the mental health and the drugs field, plus the DKK 3.5 billion proposed in the revised budget. That doesn't mean we're in the goal. But I think there is reason to act with a minimum of humility also for the Right-wing Representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e626	The representative Nesvik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e629	I'm not going to try to extend the debate so much, but I'm still taking the chance to say the following: if everything related to the bias distribution is so very good, and if what you do needs time -- as the representative Dag Ole Tegen was also in, things go their way, and you're so happy -- why do a number of county rapporteurs write a chronicle in the country's newspapers where they're just asking for a clarification in this matter? It's kind of interesting to notice. The reason I took the floor is that the Council of State once again refers to the principle of tendering, which means that the solution to the situation in Health South-East within the drug field has come into place. No, that's not-- that's the number of places you choose to buy, that's the way you draw up the tender, and the criteria you add to it, that is, the type of places you want. The number of places has actually decreased, and there is a problem for those who are not going to be in the LAR system but are going to have total rehabilitation without the use of other drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e636	I will not extend the debate, but just provide some factual information regarding Health South-East. In the field of drugs, it is true that there are some changes in what they have now dealt with in the case of drug institutions, but this is a case in point. to rust up to improve quality, so that more people get a better life after treatment and after they are hopefully rid of the problem. Then you also have to include the story that one uses in one's own institutions, i.e. in hospitals, and that one does in the municipalities, also counts. And I'm following that situation very closely. Finally, in the case of the Magnussen Committee: Yes, it is clear that there will be a clarification. Yes, it is clear that there are proposals for some changes. But we'll come back to it after a serious and proper treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e646	This case has shown great commitment from all parties, and it's positive. Not only here in the main hall, but also outside these buildings there is a great interest in health. The representative Nesvik said we have so many plans in this government. It is much better to have some plans than to have no plan at all to solve the problems associated with the challenges of health policy that we face in the future. By having a national health plan, based on the foundation of other plans, we have a way to manage health crowns and the increased resources, both in the specialist health service, in the psychiatry, in the care of the drug, in the somatic environment, etc., etc. This is rewritten as a constant cut in the health care system. Now the Council of State and several others have said that more resources have been allocated than ever. It's not about cutting cuts, it's about switching, and how we're going to take the transition within the healthcare system on the basis of the priorities we're doing with the plans we've set. What's the biggest challenge we have in health is to have to point out the areas where we want growth to come. And if it's going to grow within the diabetes field, it might have to escalate in other areas. We're talking about this with power of action. Governments were criticized for not cutting through the hospital. When the council cuts through and gets it in place, she gets criticized for it too. It's not easy when you're criticized both because you have the power to act and because you don't have the power to act - in the same case. I think the representative Dag Ole Tegen described the story related to the Hagen committee in an excellent way. The previous government, the Bondevik government, did not want to fully correct the bias, because they saw that this challenge was so big -- and not only that, it would be done over five years. And then they call on you to sign out the whole sum in two months. The proposal from the right here is 781 million. kr. If there's going to be fresh drugs, it's too small in relation to what the Magnussen committee points to. Again, the right point is that you should only have partial follow-up. But we want a full review, in order to be able to distribute the health funds in a correct and good way. Politics is not just about rhetoric; it is also about political action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e661	I teach, also in English, and in English there is something called rewrite with 'two do'. When I hear this debate, I hear that there is a kind of rewriter with two dos from the government parties, which then, to the best of my ability, tries to explain the fact that the government says it won't do anything about the divisions in Health-Norway in the current year. When the Council of State says that you should come back to the matter, there are not so many other options to come back to the matter than in the 2009 state budget. This means that the division that is a reality today will continue throughout 2008. Now there was a historic opportunity to correct the injustice that actually exists in Health-Norway, that from 1 July, the healthcare companies that get too little could have a different budgetary base. I also note that the representatives of the government parties send on very different frequencies. So if you have a stand in this room, if you're a statesman in the South-Trundellag, or if you're a hospital director in the Health West, it's like that pipe has two very different sounds - depending on the position you have. So I think in a way that there is one big question that is just as unanswered after the debate here today. If it's right, the slightly beautiful-painting description that the government party representatives make here in the staging room, if it's all so rosy, as amazing and as delicious as you try to make as, it's strange that it's the same government party rapporteurs who have written long chronicles in large regional newspapers, and also in the capital newspapers, where on their knees - almost - the government asks to correct this injustice. I find that there are two widely differing views on this matter, depending on the kind of position you have - whether you are out there, almost the population, either as rapporteur-general or as director of the hospital, or whether you are in the government quarter or have an office address in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e674	The representative Rune J. Skjæla has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e677	The representative Aspaker must have followed extremely poorly in this debate if she believes that some of the fractional leaders from the government parties or some of the other representatives have painted the health situation. We have pointed to a number of challenges, such as financial management, priorities, division of tasks, etc. I'm actually amazed at such a level that you follow a debate and actually don't get what's really being said from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e684	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3559]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e700	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no opportunity to change lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e707	We have many challenges in Health-Norway. It showed the debate that we had in the previous case. It is certainly doubtful that the temperature in this case is going to be as high, but it is an important matter anyway. The issue we are about to deal with is a proposal by three representatives from the Progress Party, on the standard for diabetic teams in hospitals. What the proposers want is to specify the professional groups of diabetes teams and what their tasks will be. The proposers want concreteisation to be based on the National Diabetes Forum’s National Standards for Diabetes Teams in Hospitals. This thing has had a pretty broad commitment. We had a hearing on April 22nd. Seven organisations were on the ring, among others. The Association of Norwegian Diabetes, the National Diabetes Forum, the Association of Clinical Nutrition Physiologists and the Association of Norwegian Fotterapeuters. A collective committee states in the setting that it ‘shares the good intentions of the proposers to become a standard for diabetes teams’. And on the other hand, ‘The Committee refers to the fact that the mission document of regional health establishments defines, inter alia, the establishment of multidisciplinary diabetes teams in all enterprises. The Committee considers it important to focus on multi-disciplinary prevention and that much more of the focus on prevention can have very positive socio-economic effects.» Three of the parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, state in the setting that it is 'problematic whether politicians should govern what should be a professional medical assessment'. And on the other hand, «Professional medical assessments should serve as a basis for standards to be set in the Norwegian health system.» On the listener there were also representatives from the Hospital Inland. The Committee stated in the statement ‘that the medical settings and the Health Directorate have noticed the good results of, among other things, the Hospital Inland’, and that one teacher of the good experience being gained around it is unfortunately not equal everywhere. The committee's discussion was that the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left proposed that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes. I have not joined the proposals from the Progress Party in detail. There are four proposals. I expect representatives from the Progress Party to deepen their proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e732	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 71 addresses an important challenge that has been further clarified in recent years. It is estimated that nearly 250,000 people in Norway have and are struggling with diabetes today. The disease poses, as is well known, major challenges for the patient, as the patient has to make several significant lifestyle changes. The disease can also cause significant complications - in the heart, eyes, kidneys, teeth and feet. In addition to the human aspect of the disease, the disease incurs significant costs for society, and these costs are likely to increase as more and more people develop the disease. When we also know that the costs and suffering of patients depend on how quickly the disease is detected and how quickly they get started with treatment and lifestyle changes, it is important to have a good offer across the country. We see this clearly by approx. 70 pst. Of the 10 billion DKK diabetes costs society, used to treat latecomplications. When we look through studies that Norway unfortunately does not achieve the treatment objectives for diabetes treatment, this is unfortunate. The need for clear and concrete action is therefore precarious. When we know that most people with diabetes diagnosis are treated by the community health service, the interaction between the community health service and the specialist health service is also important. This is also underlined in the national health plan. I record from the Committee's comments that some people are afraid that the proposal for a representative involves a detailed management system, but both I and the Progress Party are more concerned with patients' woes and well than if anyone sees this as detail management. It is also clear from the 2008 mission papers that all regional health companies should set up interdisciplinary diabetes teams, but unfortunately this has not happened. Among other things in Eastfold, the diabetes teams have been cut off, despite the fact that the Council of State sent out clear guidance signals that the diabetes teams should be strengthened that week. It is important that we take this matter, which concerns society, and so many people, seriously and seriously. I therefore refer to the proposals of the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e747	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e750	There is no doubt that diabetes is one of the major public diseases of our time. New figures from the Health Directorate show that as many as 265,000 Northmen can have diabetes. It is estimated that in half of these, no diagnosis has been made. Obesity and obesity are closely related to the development of type 2 diabetes, and here we have also seen a strong increase. Very many countries are in the same situation as us, and it is a challenge on a global scale to develop comprehensive strategies to combat the spread of diabetes. The government proposes to prevent the occurrence of diabetes through public health measures such as: focus on better nutrition and physical activity. Furthermore, one must become far better at diagnosing diabetes and at ensuring a good follow-up to those who have already been diagnosed, as several speakers have already said. Many hospitals have good experience with diabetes teams. There are multidisciplinary teams, which can consist of doctors and nurses. In addition, some have clinical nutrition physiologist, physiotherapist and foot therapist on the team. In Sweden and Denmark, they have good experience with such teams. It seems that the frequency of late complications, e.g. amputations may be reduced by between 40 and 80 pst. These results show that diabetes teams in all countries’ health companies and systems for interaction between health care levels are important measures to ensure that there are fewer serious latecomplications. I understand very well the good intentions of the proposal to introduce a national standard for diabetes teams in the specialist health service. I understand that the representatives want clear instructions from the health authorities to health businesses on how to organise the teams. It is the professional community, in cooperation with the responsible health care managers, who, as we see it, are best placed to develop the offer within the framework set by national health authorities and regional health businesses. The Directorate for Health is responsible for making national recommendations and guidelines in areas where appropriate. There may be many paths to good and safe follow-up of people with diabetes, and needs may also vary around the country. At the heart of this is better interaction between hospitals and municipal health services. In this connection, I refer to the cooperation agreement between the Municipalities' Central Association and the Government which was signed last year. I would like to stress that all diabetic patients should receive good and proper treatment and follow-up no matter where they live. The learning and mastering centres will play an important role here. More than 50 such centres are established and all health establishments are or are in the process of establishing offers in this area. The starting point for the learning and mastering centres is that the knowledge of users is to be equated with professional knowledge of planning and operation. There shall be a meeting place for persons with chronic diseases, their relatives and health professionals. I want to strengthen the role of the learning and mastering centres and make sure that the offers they have for patients with diabetes are further developed. This also applies to interaction with municipalities, so that there will be no break and stay in the offer to patients with chronic diseases. In particular, chronic disease patients need to be close to the services. Such cooperation between the learning and masterminds centres and the community health service can be seen, among other things. in Bergen and Sandefjord. It is an objective that the threshold for reference to learning and mastering offers should be low. A number of regional health firms have good job vacancies in the field of diabetes. In the Health West, for example, there are: Health Bergen and Stavanger University Hospital good examples. Health Nord has also made a systematic effort to develop skills in diabetes. Among other things, the Nordlands Hospital has set up such a team with outbound activities in Lofoten and Vesterålen. To succeed in this work, we need a holistic approach, from prevention and treatment in primary and specialist health services to rehabilitation. Common clinical guidelines for primary and specialist health services are important in order to ensure equivalence and overall follow-up. In the autumn, the Health Directorate will provide clinical guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of diabetes. They have informed me that they will not come up with detailed standards on how to put together diabetes teams. We also need to follow up with an information campaign directed by the Health Directorate. This shall be addressed to people who have or are at risk for the development of type 2 diabetes. The follow-up to the National Diabetes Strategy is well under way, and I have great expectations of this work, which is already under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e769	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3559]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e787	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3559]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e805	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3560]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e823	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3560]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e841	It's the companies and businesses that manage to keep the seniors at work, that will succeed in the future. For this reason, governments need to facilitate good senior work and at the same time make it more profitable for seniors to choose to work rather than to leave early retirement. Today, it has been quite exactly one year since the Stortinget dealt with the key issue of senior policy. The communication was important, because in the years to come we will be totally dependent on the fact that far more seniors remain in the labour market. But at the same time, we see - more clearly than in most other areas - that a big message does not solve a single problem unless fine words are translated into concrete action. Most of the cases were characterised as a good situational description, but poor on concrete measures. Already today, there is a shortage of labour in many sectors. From 2020, this challenge will only be greater. The central statistical agency recently published figures showing that there will be 1.6 million people over 67 in 2060. This is 200,000 more than the retirement commission did, and twice as many as today. Most of it tells us what a challenge we're facing. It is positive that there will be many over 67 years in the future. This is an expression that we are doing well in the country. We have good health and well-being services, which help us live longer. We're going to enjoy this. At the same time, increasing life expectancy and a higher proportion of the population over 67 years of age require more and more participation in the labour market. With the pension reform, the social security system is changing. It will be more profitable to work; the person who chooses to work for a long time will get more paid in retirement on the day she retires, compared to the one who leaves early. The whole point of the reform is that people are going to work longer. If we don't succeed in this, not only will the pension system crack in the linkages, it will actually be a threat to the whole welfare community. Unfortunately, when debated older people and participation in the labour market, it has been easy to become a discussion about the labour force. Exactly what a wearer is in 2008 - or 2030 or 2050, for that matter - is very unclear. In the winter payroll, the LO stated that a wearer is one who feels tired. I think everyone who has an active working day, from time to time can feel tired. But are you a laborer for that reason? That's where good senior work comes into the picture. Senior measures at work should help to actually catch older workers who experience the job as arduous or less easily. For some, some new tasks and perhaps some skills enhancement will be good actions, for others will be a little less day-to-day responsibility and training, while others will again need some more leisure time, or they may be able to attend to mentoring tasks to younger colleagues. The objective shall be to maintain the older labour force in the labour force. Seniors are not just an invaluable resource in times of labour shortage. With its long experience in working life, the seniors as workers also represent continuity, security, stability and reliability. Senior research tells us that where younger workers may work faster, the seniors do this again by working smarter. Any activity will therefore benefit from a good age structure in the workforce. Having a job to go to, feeling that a person gets to use himself and his competence, as well as being part of a professional and social community, has a significant self-esteem, which extends far beyond the benefits for the individual employee. This is also valuable from a wider public health perspective, by the fact that work in general has a health promotion effect and prevents solitude. Good senior work must be based on free contract law and designed in the meeting between an inclusive employer and an employee who wants to continue working. This means that one must have a framework in the workplace that helps to ensure that older workers do not become too expensive for employers. If we put in place special schemes that stimulate less work from the individual senior, we're going in the wrong direction. The labour force will then quickly become too expensive, and this will help to ensure that older people do not want to change jobs as easily as their younger colleagues. Now that wages and salaries in the private and public sectors are at the nearest port and decided, we know that all jobs with a collective agreement will have a cost to the AFP completely regardless of whether the individual senior leaves early or late. This helps to increase the profitability of late retirement for each senior but may also help to eliminate the benefits for the employer who works well for seniors. The pension reform is based on a prerequisite for increased participation in the labour force. If this does not happen, the entire pension scheme will be at risk. In order to achieve this objective, we must therefore not slow down senior work, but rather intensify measures to keep the seniors at work rather than retire. It is not enough to make it more profitable for seniors to work, if one does not at the same time make it more profitable for employers to employ older workers. In the same way, the framework must also contribute to the individual senior experience of earning more work. Although the pension scheme has been set up after 2010, other targeted actions will also be needed. In the 2008 Right Alternative Budget, we promoted several senior measures: targeted tax reliefs of NOK 6000 for all over 62 years of age who choose to stay in work rather than get rid of the AFP, and also the removal of any curtailment of pensions for the 68 and 69 year olds who work alongside. The red-green majority unfortunately voted this down a third time just a few days ago. There may be signs in time that the attitude towards being at work is improving. A few weeks ago, a study was published by the Synnovate MMI for Senior Policy Centres. One of the interesting findings in the responses from Norwegian professionals here was that they could expect to retire at the age of 64, which is one year more than what was measured in 2007 and two years more than in the years 2004-2006. So although there are positive developments, it is still too easy to push older workers out of the labour market by conversions, downsizings and mergers. One of the worst examples of this was the merger between Statoil and Norsk Hydro's oil and gas division. Here all employees over 58 years were offered very lucrative final packages for a total cost of NOK 3.4 billion. Although this was clearly contrary to the intentions of the contract of inclusive work and that there was also a breach of the main intention of the pension agreement, it was thus implemented. It is a cross-thinking that in a company where the state itself has the majority of its shares, there is a senior policy that is a blatant breach of what both government and government have adopted. I find it difficult to imagine a worse role model for the rest of business in senior policy. Especially alarming is the situation in school. This is where competent and experienced labour disappears at a high rate. While the search for the teaching profession is record low, almost all teachers retire before reaching the ordinary retirement age of 67. Over half of the teachers in school are over 50 years old, and the whole of 85 pst. by teachers before the ordinary retirement age. On several crossroads, the right has put forward concrete proposals in this Chamber on senior measures for older teachers, and has proposed a total of 70 million in our alternative budget for 2008 and in the revised national budget for 2008. kr for senior measures. And every time we're downcast. So as a crisis of competence develops in school, we see that the government is completely paralysed and two hands. In the interpellation, I mention various schemes that help older workers to disappear from working life: special age limits, a lucrative AFP scheme, the state's waiting wage system and the law on the right to reduced working time. I wish that the list of incentives that contribute to each senior's desire and desire to stay in the labour market would have been at least twice as long.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e877	The representative, Martin Engeset, addresses an important topic. It is also my opinion that the seniors are important to the working life, and I am happy to discuss the opportunity to discuss the participation of the seniors in the working life. I agree with the interpellant that it is important to create an inclusive working life and to prevent exclusion. As the representative Engeset says, there is currently a shortage of labour. This is mainly due to the fact that the Norwegian economy is in one of the strongest growth periods after the war. Both employment and labour force have increased, and unemployment has fallen to levels we need 20 years back in time to find the right way. Interpellation gives the impression that the reason for the shortage of labour is that several seniors are leaving early retirement. That's not right. It is true that more people lose their pensions, but this is mainly due to the ageing of the population. Since 2004, it has been 33 pst. the number of persons aged 60 to 64. Seniors do not participate less in the labour market than they did in the past. On the contrary, the statistics of the Directorate of Labour and Welfare show that the seniors now retire later than before. Since 2000, the expected retirement age at the age of 50 has increased by one year, from 63 to 64 years. The seniors also benefit from the good labour market. Very few seniors are unemployed, and unemployment in this group has fallen in recent years. The registered unemployment rate in the 50-59 age group is 1 pst. In the 60-year-old population, it is slightly higher, 1.9 pst, but it is reduced by 17 pst. during the last year. We are now in the process of completing the biggest reform of the old age pension since the population's return was introduced in 1967. The pension reform will provide the basis for a sustainable retirement pension. The new age pension in the population is neutrally designed as early as 2010. This means that each individual receives a higher annual pension by being long-term at work. In the new performance model, all years of work will count, which will also stimulate long-term work. Lifetime adjustment means that younger coals have to be at work slightly longer than older coals in order to achieve the same level of compensation in the population’s backlog. The new AFP system, with an AFP attack, is built up in accordance with the same principles as in popular fear, and the AFP attack will increase at later withdrawals. Retirement and labour income must be able to be combined without shortening both in terms of social security and in terms of the new AFP scheme. Overall, the new old-age pension and the new AFP scheme provide strong incentives for high occupational activity and late retirement and good opportunities to combine work and retirement. We have now been through a paycheck where the AFP has been a topic. The result of the wage settlement involves an AFP model that supports up to all the objectives of the pension reform. Now, when I hear the inter-pellant say that the Government is ‘the complete paralysis of action’, it is mildly said to be an eye-catching comment from a serious Right-Policy, for never before has it been done more to stimulate seniors to go further than the pension reform we have now implemented, not least when it comes to bringing the AFP into line with the whole of the pension reform. We now get stronger incentives to get seniors to do more work than we've ever had. To characterize it as a paralysis of action, I have to say that I am completely understanding. But we're not saying that's enough. I would like to underline the importance of the important work of disseminating information and good attitudes to seniors in the workplace. In the past, there have been many myths and prejudices against the seniors. For many years, efforts have been made to counter such prejudices, in close cooperation with the social partners. This work takes place, among others: in the form of support to the Senior Policy Centres. Senior Policy Centres have recently launched a win-win campaign. The campaign is supported by the social partners and is aimed at both employers and employees. It addresses information, languages, attitudes and prejudices regarding seniors and the labour market. We've seen that attitude work is useful. The Norwegian Senior Policy Barometer shows that the proportion of leaders who are positive in recruiting seniors has increased from 57 pst. in 2003 to 71 pst. in 2007. This is a joyous development. We also see a significant increase in the number of employees who are 60 years of age or older who respond that they can expect to continue working even after they have the opportunity to retire. It promises good for the future. Senior policy is primarily a responsibility for employers in cooperation with employees. Senior policy is a great deal about good management and human resources policy. Seniors must experience that they are valued by leaders and colleagues. Businesses must know to use the experience and competence of the seniors. The good working environment and good HMS actions are themselves important to combat exclusion in the long term. It is my impression that there is a lot of good work going on around the workplace. Senior policy interventions have also been a topic of wage negotiations. It shows that the social partners believe that senior policy is important. Within the State tariff area, there has been a follow-up with, inter alia: awareness-raising measures and the right to a minimum of eight additional days off, alternative extra pay, for workers over 62 years of age. In 2006, the vast majority - three out of four - of state enterprises had implemented concrete measures to get older employees to work longer. In addition, the government carries out reduced working hours for senior workers for the same purpose. The possibility of reduced working time, flexible working time arrangements and not least the possibility of combining work and pensions are among the measures often mentioned by the seniors themselves when asked what can make them postpone retirement. It is therefore a little surprising that the interpellant mentions the legalisation of the right to reduced working time as one of the factors contributing to exclusion from the labour market. I consider this to be one of the measures to promote professional participation for older people who feel too tired to be in a full-time job. The interpellant has referred to the final package of older workers in connection with the merger between Statoil and Hydro. The interpellant is well aware of my critical attitude towards this. During the work on the senior report, it was found that the use of final packages and other forms of so-called natural take-off is fairly common in the context of de-employment and reorganisation. I'm not generally against final packages. It can help to help outnumber new jobs. But it is not good if final packages help to push younger seniors out of work. Senior policy shall contribute to changing the attitudes to such practices. Senior political barometers now suggest that fewer leaders believe it is natural that the oldest go first on downboarding, than was the case some years ago. It's positive. Let me end by stressing that senior policy is going to continue. The Soria-Moria Declaration states that government parties are to work towards a senior policy that leads to older people being perceived as a positive resource. I think we're already on the right track. I am sure that the pension reform will provide a good basis for good development in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e926	In my post, I was clear that there were some things going in the right direction - it was also supposed to be missing, at a time when we felt that we have had the longest and strongest upturn in modern Norwegian history, among others. as a result of a very sensible fiscal and economic policy during the previous enlargement period. Now leave it. It essentially confronts us with some control questions. The fact that there are some things going in the right direction today - related to the fact that there is a very strong demand for labour, including older workers - must not lead us into the naive notion and believe that this is something that is now being resolved once and for all. We all know that after good times the bad times come. In a situation where the good times turn around and there will be a setback, we have to ask the question: Well, when the times turn around, how do we avoid getting into a situation where older workers are being pushed out, as we have seen so many times before? Although these are good times, we should not forget to point out that there are between 600,000 and 700,000 people in working life who are out of work. It is a problem that embraces much more than just the debate on senior policy. When I pointed out that the government was totally paralysed, it was especially related to the situation in school, where there is a crisis of competence. Half of the teachers are over 50 years of age, and almost all end before the ordinary retirement age. I pointed out that this is where the government seems to be completely paralysed, because, over and over again, concrete proposals that could help ensure that valuable skills remained in the school sector, and did not disappear. I would like to challenge the Council of State to say something more about how he sees it possible to obtain schemes that could help make it more profitable for the employer to get the seniors to work, even in times that come after them. Today, there is - as I also pointed out in the post - demand for labour and a desire to stand longer in the job than before. That's good! This is a development that must continue in the future, not stop abruptly so that we get an opposite trend on the day that we may have recessions. The incentives for employers in both the private and the public sectors must then be in place, so that it is also profitable for employers to pursue good senior policies. I could imagine challenging the Council of State on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e944	I allow myself to say that I believe in fact that there is a bit of a lack of analysis that lies behind the post that the representative Engeset held here now. What is important with regard to the Norwegian labour market in the coming years is how strongly demographic developments will affect it. Growth in the number of older people is so high that it will in itself trigger a significant demand for labour. Only there will be a long way to eliminate the effects of economic downturns. In addition, we have a situation in today's labour market where we lack labour, despite the fact that we have significant labour migration. At the same time, we also have zero growth in the core of the workforce, type 25-60 years, so my claim and the government's starting point will be that even in recessions, the Norwegian labour market will be affected by labour shortages. The pressure on that deficiency will vary slightly, but the main challenge will be labour shortages. It will be the situation not only in Norway, but the whole of Europe will be affected by it. In fact, Norway will have a favourable situation vis-à-vis very many other countries. A country like Poland, from which we today import a lot of labour, will have a population decline in the time to come of over 10 pst. Germany wants a population of 10 pst. It will be a considerable struggle for labour in Europe. Employers who do not then understand the need to focus on recruitment will be employers who will fail in the operation of their activities. No one has such a strong incentive to have a broad focus on recruitment, as employers do. Either you think you're a broad recruiter or you don't get people at all, and then the businesses won't be able to go. That is why it is right now to have a strong focus on instruments that stimulate workers to take advantage of the opportunities that lie there, and therefore pension reform is so important. That's why it's so important to make it profitable to work, and therefore it's so important to organise the combination of work and retirement. It's as important in school as anywhere else. Think of the teacher who can have a part-time job and freely combine it with retirement. I meet a lot of teachers who have left AFP, and they think it's wonderful, with one exception, that they can't work next door. Now they get that opportunity. I don't think we're able to overestimate the welfare and labour market policy effects of what we're doing now in the pension reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e957	Let me first say that the interpellant addresses a very important topic: how to get more older people to participate in the labour market. It's just so sad that the description of the reality of the interpellant is not entirely correct. The map is not entirely in line with the terrain. It really surprises me that such a thorough and serious parliamentarian as Martin Engeset presents reality as he does. It is not true that older workers, the seniors, are more likely to retire early than before. The speech of the figures is clear: the older workers now work longer than they did a few years ago. If the interpellation had been made ten years ago, the description of reality would have been partially comprehensive. But fortunately, a lot of positive has happened in recent years. I'm going to be so clear that I'm also giving the previous government its share of the credit for what's going on, and then, of course, credit for the tools and what the current government has done. The sum total is a positive development. More older jobs longer than they did for just a few years back. Let me then make a few comments about the importance of introducing the new age pension from 2010, which the interpellant and his party have also been serious contributors to putting in place here in the Stortinget. After all, the whole new system is based on the principle that it should pay off working longer. Yes, the whole pension scheme is going to be from 2010, we're going to say, neutrally designed, so that it's the individual who decides on his own pension. If one goes early, the pension will be lower. If you work longer, your pension will be higher. It cannot be underestimated. The entire pension scheme will now be set up so that you can get back to work. This benefits older workers in particular. So I want to add that retirement and work with the new system from 2010 can be combined freely. The term ‘abbreviation rules in the old-age pension’ may be deleted from the Norwegian vocabulary. The term "shortcut" goes away. It is a very positive measure to get more people to work a little longer. The main reason why I asked for the word was the interpellant's description of the law of the majority of the population on the right to reduced working time for them over 62 years, or more precisely: reduced position for them over 62 years - that's what we're really talking about. That is strange: in the list of sandwiches that are rammed with all the horrors that help the elderly to be pushed out, the law of the right to a reduced position for them over 62 years is included in the preamble. I think I just have to explain a little bit what is the idea behind the decision of the majority of the population to change the law. As of 2010, the new pension scheme, which we all know, will allow pensions to be withdrawn from the population's pension from 62 years of age. One can, as I said recently, freely combine work and retirement without curtailment. The new pension is also arranged so that you can charge a sub-pension. One can take out 70 pst. pension and work 30 pst. One can take out 50 pst. pension and work 50 pst. One can take out 60 pst. pension and work 40 pst. It is a seafarer who has the choice to work next to the pension. This is why the new legislation is designed to ensure that more elderly people work, not fewer. I'm pretty sure that when the new system is implemented from 2010, we'll see that more seniors choose to combine work and partial retirement, i.e. we'll get more employees who work a little longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e966	There is little doubt that the interpellant addresses an important topic, a topic where there has actually also been a positive progress, on which the Council of State was involved. But it's still a long way to go before you reach the goal of including even more seniors in the world of work. Looking back on a study conducted by NAV not too long ago, it turns out that there are 120 000 fewer workers in Norway in 2030 than they are today. Furthermore, SSB figures show that the 60-67 age group is increasing from 220,000 to 330,000. There is little doubt that we will get older and that it is important that these older people participate more and more in the labour market. I think we all agree on that. In an article that was presented in the Newspaper on 26 May, he wrote. Åsmund Lunde, Director of the Senior Policy Centre, said that in the future the struggle for Norwegian labour will be about the seniors, what he refers to as the ‘grey gold’. I totally agree with Lunde. I think the fight in the future will be about the gray gold, but it's also a lot about attitudes out in business. I also see that an investigation done there, just proves that we still have a long way to go. For reference purposes only, the Norwegian Senior Policy Barometer 2007 shows that 71 pst. by the Norwegian leaders, the average age of the establishment will not be calculated in five years. 54 pst. there is a lack of a strategy for keeping the seniors in the future. 57 pst. by Norwegian leaders, it has been felt that there is discrimination in the labour market due to age. But at the same time, some positive things have also happened, as I said in the beginning. Now it's 83 pst. who believe that it is an advantage to their company for people to work at normal retirement age, in 2003 that proportion was only 71 pst. It's moving slowly forward in the right direction. I also think there are some companies that have done a lot of good. Let me bring out the senior program to Storebrand. Let me also draw up the senior programme for Moelven Byg, where they have actually entered into a dialogue with their employees: what can we do to make you stand longer in the labour market? Well, they say, "We want more leisure time." We want longer vacations when we have passed a certain age. Okay, then we'll put you in a longer vacation. So it turns out that the result now is that almost no one takes out the AFP, but for some years back, there were a lot of people who took out the AFP. I think that most of it really is about flexible regulation, a flexible regulation where individual companies can find good solutions for their employees. I think we have to go away from a code where everything is going to be like an A4 format, where everyone is going into the same booth. We live in different industries, we have different businesses, and we have people with different needs working in those companies. The best ones to find out what you need, and what's right for that company, are those who work in the companies, along with their management. That's why we need more flexibility. So to the pension reform, which has been up here. I'm also glad that we now have a flexible system, where everyone can leave from 62 years or later and combine this with work and retirement, without any curtailment. But I still think it is a pity that one age group - or two age groups this year - should not be allowed to combine this, namely the 68-year-olds and the 69-year-olds. I should have wanted, as the interpellant was about, that we had had a broad and unanimous magnification that had backed it up when that bill was about to be dealt with. Finally, I have also noticed that at my discretion, the new pension scheme does not stimulate the longer a job is paid. If a job is 40 years old and has an average salary of NOK 325 000, a few less pension will be paid in social security than today's minimum pensioners. If you work for 45 years, a few will be less than 40 years with your current pension scheme. That means that the longer a worker, the less a person gets punished in the new system, but you get worse anyway. I also record that the senior case disagrees with the new pension reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e981	Lack of labour is a major concern in many sectors of society, and Norwegian police are no exception. Recruitment problems we met in the past in Finnmark, are now unfortunately everyday in Oslo as well. The interpellant undoubtedly addresses a problem with which the whole country can associate and points to conditions that help experienced older workers to disappear from the labour market, with the result that society loses valuable experience and competence. Some sectors are hit harder than others. In some areas, the skills lost are so critical and noticeable that specific measures should actually be taken to limit non-response and motivate older workers to stay a little longer in the job. Today we are experiencing a situation in which the police and officers' seat is severely understaffed. The right from this pulpit has repeatedly highlighted the consequences, but met with little understanding from the Minister of Justice. Of course, it is easy to be a follow-up clock and agree that we should bring up more people at the Police College. Unfortunately, the Minister of Justice has been involved in remedial measures, where the Right has pointed out that, among other things. an offensive senior policy in the police would be a measure capable of tying up. We know what's going on, because we've got a number of concrete input from the police union. Right is committed to ensuring sound police preparedness across the country. We also know that the morals of the police force are high. That's why we think it's quite possible - if the state is playing its cards right - to get experienced policemen to participate in a crew train for a period of time, to ensure that we have a police full of tasks to do in the individual community. My experience is, when talking to older policemen, that the will is there if the state will facilitate an attractive wage and staff policy for this group. In the police, the retirement age today is 57 years, and in the men's seat it's 59 years old. Many of these have had a long career with a sometimes tough working day, so to some extent it would probably be natural to step out of the profession at retirement age. But we also know that many of these could be stimulated to stay longer in work if they are offered benefits in the form of extra vacations, higher pay or less burdensome watch arrangements. Police seniors have valuable experience and knowledge that the police could have enjoyed longer if they are willing to facilitate and focus on this group. The right has previously challenged the Minister of Justice and the Government to take the necessary steps to develop one state senior policy. Local police management needs to have adapted tools to stimulate experienced police officers to take an additional increase in their professional career. It does not, in my view, intend to refer senior measures to local wage negotiations where the seniors have to fight against younger colleagues in the career development phase. The government cannot expect the police to develop their own senior solutions in each of the 27 police districts. This is inappropriate and inappropriate for younger and older workers. Right-wing fears such an evolution, and believes it is fit to undermine the entire senior tank within the police. The motto must be that it should pay to work - also for the seniors. For example, the reward may take the form of special pay supplements, extended vacations, reduced working time, reduced watch loads or a combination of these. The right is concerned that incentives must be designed in such a way as to provide flexibility for individual workers. A forward-looking employer policy for the police must ensure that further involvement by retirement age is also included as a natural part of employee interviews in the years prior to retirement. In this way you can test the motivation of the individual to continue. The government here has, in my opinion, taken a disappointing passive attitude towards the senior field. There is little will for action and fresh money. The police have established a cooperation project between the Police Directorate and the Police Joint Association to test senior policy actions in Hordaland. On the right-hand side, we have little understanding of why this experiment has to be so limited. In my dialogue with both police officers and trade unions, it is repeatedly underlined that it is both important and useful to put in place a set of instruments that provide the flexibility needed for each police officer to keep his most experienced people for a few more years. Finally, I have a challenge and want the Council of State to comment on whether he thinks it is wise to make results in senior policy depending on pointed elbows in local wage negotiations. Does he think this is the best way to get positive results in order to get more seniors to take an extra job session?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1011	A few years ago, it had been "40 years and over". Now it's called "gliding gray". There have been many examples here today of good senior policy in many enterprises, for example. Moelven has been mentioned. I visited the company four years ago. The seniors there were very happy about the extra vacation they got, but they said the most important thing was that the company said: you are good workers, and we want to keep you. That's what they said was the most important motivation to be at work -- to be told that you're actually valuable. It pays to work. I am, like several co-representatives, a little bit surprised at the tone of the Right Interpellation. So there are more working older people now than a few years ago, and they're working longer. Unemployment among older workers is lower than it has ever been. So we've rigged into a new people's security system, an AFP system and a pay settlement in line with a strong line of work. The strongest labour incentives throughout the pension system are now targeted at the seniors. There's no doubt about it. It's very powerful instruments. So when you describe the future, there are going to be more older people in the workforce. What we also know is that older people are fresher now than they were before. I am therefore not able to look so darkly at what the Right does, which describes the situation as terrible gloom. We've opened up part-time for those over 62. This is precisely an opportunity for those who are unable to do a full job. They can now go off as a 62-year-old with a pension from popular security, or combine this with part-time work. It gives people an opportunity to actually be at work, not the opposite. When we dealt with this matter here in Stortinget, the Right was upset that we did not leave the senior policy only to the companies. So this is not related. The point of that scheme is that more people should see the possibility of standing longer in work. The alternative is that people don't necessarily work anymore, but that they're being pushed out and they're going to have bad luck. That's what we think is a bad solution if it's possible for people to stand longer at work. It is also one of the reasons why we are now developing schemes to combine pay subsidies in a workplace where there is a complete failure. We've started trials on the 6-hour day, as the Council of State said, targeting seniors. It's a very important system. Then comes the discussion of the 68- and 69-year-olds, who in the old system do not have the opportunity to work without a curtailment in popular fear. We discussed that matter not many days ago. Then I said, on behalf of SV, and I think that I repeat: the reason we couldn't agree with it now was that, unlike the Right Party and the Advance Party, we chose to keep the level of labour market measures for the unemployed. I don't even think I can talk about the Progress Party's round of cuts in NAV and labour market measures. It's a total rage. The right has cut 160 million. on labour market measures. It's about keeping people in the workforce, people in a marginal position, who need help to keep the job. The role model of StatoilHydro in senior policy has been mentioned. I don't think it's possible to take a stronger distance from what's happened there than what SV has done. It is a hopeless policy to pay well-qualified 58-year-olds to stop working, provide them with a pension and even offer them the opportunity to work full alongside. I don't think I'm going to track very particularly if I say that I think that StatoilHydro will have to rent back some of these to higher wages than they had before, because they need them. How this has happened is a little bit difficult to imagine. The right is concerned about the situation in the school sector, and perhaps also in the health sector. I would like to point out that there is now a good pay settlement in place, but it is also important to look at the proposals in the Equal pay Committee in the future, because there are not only questions about keeping the seniors, but actually about recruiting. Then there's no doubt that we also have to look at what's called equal pay, in order to be able to recruit and keep people in those sectors for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1030	I would like to thank the representative Engeset for addressing this important debate on the inclusion of older workers in the labour market. The fine words we all largely agree on. Now we have to look at what is actually being done in practice. Society needs senior labour more than ever to ensure economic growth and greater well-being. In today’s edition of the ‘Wekepaper Management’, we can read that pensionist boom creates headaches and concerns, because ‘four out of ten academics at the country’s universities and colleges will retire by 2018.’ We will have such challenges in most areas of society, because the proportion of people aged 55 to 66 will grow sharply in the coming years. About 25 pst. by 2050, the population in Norway will be 65 years of age or older. It is important for welfare development to facilitate as many of them as possible to continue to work. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have a broad pension settlement, which will stimulate more elderly people to work. The proportion of disability pensioners among the seniors is increasing from 23 pst. in the 55-59 age group to 36 pst. in the 60-64 age group. However, early retirement, and in particular the AFP, is a more important reason for retirement for people over 62 years of age than for unearned retirement. Seniors themselves have a responsibility to maintain up-to-date and further develop their skills throughout their professional careers. They must clarify their wishes and needs to employers and be willing to change jobs and jobs when appropriate. However, the authorities also have a high level of responsibility, including: to facilitate professional participation also for those over 67 years of age. Christian People's Party will therefore, among other things, remove the pension curtailment for the 68- and 69-year-olds who want to work. I am disappointed that the government has shown no willingness to do anything about this either in the state budget for the current year or in the revised, but only waiting for a new pension system to clean up this. Nor must we forget the human resources policy, both in the public and private sectors. It needs to put the working environment and skills development for the seniors on the agenda far more than today, and in every way seek to stimulate people to get the most out of work. In this context, it is quite appropriate that the representative Engeset mentions the human resources policy in StatoilHydro. In the merger of Statoil and Hydro to one company, very favourable early retirement schemes were negotiated for employees. Many of the employees have, not surprisingly, used the arrangements. As far as I know, so many of the most competent and competent employees in the company have closed because of these arrangements that StatoilHydro has been tapped for central competence and has received not insignificant challenges in the day-to-day operation of the company. Many of those who have ended have then been hired back as valuable consultants. Is this in line with the government's fine words that working life should make it easier for employees to get the most out of their business? Is it good resource management to provide employees with very favourable early retirement schemes in order to re-rent them at a high cost from private consulting firms? Where is the active state ownership policy aimed at ensuring that companies in which the state is a major owner pursue policies in line with those of the Government? There is also reason to ask questions about the country’s favourable waiting wage system. I have to admit that I have difficulty understanding why employees in the state or StatoilHydro should have better pension plans than a laundry service in a private company. If this washing aid is not a member of the LO, he will not benefit from the AFP either. We cannot have that, as the Minister of Health said repeatedly in the previous debate in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1054	We live longer and have healthier older than ever before, while having a shorter part of our life in the workplace than ever. Some people would think that this is an expression of the positive development of the welfare society, but I, like the interpellant, would think that there is an expression of the wrong way to manage human resources and competences. In a society where labour shortages are a major challenge both in order to increase value creation and in order to provide the welfare services that society wants to provide to the population, it is natural that the main focus of senior policy is focused on how to increase the retirement age from work, as the interpellant also does in this debate. The representative Martin Engeset has my and - I understand - everyone else's support in the reactions to the StatoilHydro agreement on final package offers for all over 58 years. In the last few days, I see in the newspapers that the so-called gold package has not fallen in taste with StatoilHydro's partners. Among other things, the state's own company, Petoro, has said no to join and pay the final package bill of NOK 2 billion, and this sum covers, as far as I understand, only employees on the base. This final package agreement should never have been concluded, and someone may also have learned that it is not the type of agreement we conclude anymore. Societal responses are becoming too strong, and the environment, which is being affected financially, has too strong reactions. As Woie Duesund also stresses, it's actually now that StatoilHydro himself is meant to be because you lose skills that you're completely dependent on in key functions that need to be solved. So I'm not quite sure that all of the other examples that the representative Engeset referred to are negative in terms of stimulating people to work. Both in the case of the AFP and in the case of the law on the right to reduced working time, the greater freedom of choice combined with the removal of barriers to work, which are the main solutions of the reform. I just thought that was in the deal with Right more liberalist traditions. Maybe it's more like wondering if the government and the red-green parties are happy for the kind of solutions that always work. But we are. We want freedom of choice, and we believe freedom of choice for seniors helps to stimulate further work by combining retirement and work. And we're now going to fix that. It is also true that the concluded AFP agreement, so far for the private sector - but I assume that the public sector agreement has a similar design - is fully in line with a pension settlement entered into in 2005 under a previous government, where the Right was also involved in the conciliation. The agreement builds up below the working line, just as all the parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, have opted behind in terms of pension reform. It brings me to the conclusion that the representative Engeset, in his interpellation, has raised a topic that it is good to have a continuous debate, because it is such that we need to have an eternal focus on how we should facilitate more people to work. But when, for example, refers to the fact that the senior report was more full of intentions than concrete actions, it may be true, for the senior report was a message that discussed how we should facilitate a senior policy for the whole of society, both civil and public. Then again I would think that it would be wrong if we had a government that implemented, or that adopted, a series of measures where there is employment, where there are businesses, where there are attitudes in the labour market that need to be adjusted. The government has followed up on a number of measures and has followed up by stressing an IA agreement, which also has to do with extending participation in the labour market. But you have assumed that it will happen in cooperation with the parties. Moelven Bruk was mentioned here as an example of the company’s attitudes that helped seniors to stand longer in work. We have also been visiting the Mohn company in Bergen, where they said exactly the same thing. Action was good, but action did not help unless the positions were at the bottom. The fact that one felt that one was wanted as a senior in the company was the most important thing to benefit from positive measures. So I hope that both the representative Engeset and the Right and everyone will help us to continue with a senior policy where public action will never be one instrument, but where work on changes in attitudes in a working life, both in the private and public sectors, is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1071	Last year we dealt with the senior report. It is therefore worthwhile for the interpellant to re-examine the question of the position of senior citizens in working life together with the question of sufficient labour. The big question in the years to come will be whether we have enough labour and whether we can invest more in labour migration. All European countries face exactly the same problems, so we cannot expect everyone to choose to go to Norway. Norwegian society needs the labour force of the seniors and all those outside the labour force to ensure economic growth and increased well-being. This is a challenge we share with the other countries of Europe. In the coming years, the proportion of people aged 55 to 66 will grow significantly. It will therefore be vital that we do more than today to participate more in the labour market. The left will remove the government waiting pay scheme and assess parts of the special age limits in the country. As many have pointed out in the debate, this has resulted in an unfortunate outcome for some occupational groups, which was hardly the intention at the time the scheme was implemented. At all -- all the measures that are more conducive to combining work and retirement, we are positive. Personnel policy, both in the public and private sectors, needs to put the working environment and skills development for the seniors on the agenda far more than today. Some large private enterprises have introduced life-stage policies as part of their human resources. This we think makes sense. It is also reasonable for each job or enterprise to have both ideas and the freedom to find good solutions that are appropriate for different occupational groups and for different professional lives. It's likely to be even more important in the future. Even now, in some groups of occupations, the distinction between work and private life is more likely to emerge, and many people want a flexible working life. It will be important for public authorities to follow this new development, because this great flexibility can also have a negative effect, namely that someone does not feel free at all and is mentally at work. The prerequisites for a high level of participation in the profession, as many have mentioned here today, will be that it will have to pay off work. The senior report pointed out that international studies show that the design of the pension system is the main explanation factor for the time at which each employee chooses to retire from work. Other factors that play a role are the implementation of senior measures in the workplace. Being seen and appreciated by the employer is very good when people are asked what can make them work longer. Good management and a conscious relationship with senior work are very important factors in keeping seniors at work. Lifelong learning is of the good for all people, and it is also of great importance for people to choose to stand longer in the workplace. Other important factors are the fight against discrimination and exclusion. Senior citizens also have a great responsibility to maintain and further develop their skills in a long professional career, as well as to clarify their wishes and needs to the employer. It is important that employers see older workers and their need for further skills. It should become more common for seniors to change jobs and work. This is a development that we in the Left believe for most occupational groups will go on their own with increased skills and education of the population as a whole. There are, of course, some exceptions to this slightly optimistic attitude. In the case of heavy, physical professions, especially in the care sector, there will be an advantage if workers do not remain in the same work for 40 years. Opportunities to find easier jobs and to vary between jobs are likely to have a positive impact on people in these occupational groups. In the opinion of the Left, the most important thing to prevent early retirement from working life is that we are doing a better job of balancing health inequalities between different occupational groups. State and municipality have a clear responsibility to organise society to minimise the risk of health damage. Increased efforts in rehabilitation and prevention are important to ensure that seniors remain in the healthcare system. However, for these occupational groups, the prevention of health damage must start at a much earlier date than today. Despite doing a lot of good work in this area, I am convinced that it is a greater potential to extract through variation, more organized work during periods and more technical aids. Norway has a higher proportion of older workers than many other countries. This provides a good starting point for an improved senior policy. However, it is problematic that only 1 pst. of the labour force aged over 66. We know that the employment rate falls between the age of 55 and the age of 65. However, it is only when a passenger is 62 years old that the employment rate falls particularly sharply. Otherwise, I have to say that although you are not yet in that age group - in the ranks of the seniors - I find it fascinating to be called the 'grey gold'. You can be among the gray gold and be a capital base even if you've just passed 40!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1097	The President has nothing against that expression!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1100	I think this is a very important matter. Almost 25 pst. by 2050, the population in Norway will be 65 years of age or older. The left supports the improvement of the work environment law to enable senior citizens to stay longer in work. Our welfare systems will depend on our success in preventing too many people from choosing early retirement and leaving the labour market. The left is particularly concerned that all over 62 years of age avoid curtailment of pensions if they choose to work more, and generally a more flexible working life for seniors. We want to open up more individual agreements for them over 62 years, and look at working time rules for seniors in order to make more flexible solutions. We know that early retirement, and especially the AFP, is a more important departure cause for people over 62 years of age than non-pension. For women in heavy care, it would be important to have flexible tours together with more individual organisation at the workplace. Care professionals are particularly vulnerable to injuries and stress disorders. To meet the challenges of an ageing population, it will be important to keep people in these professions as long as possible. This may include, inter alia: involve flexible rotational arrangements and more emphasis on technical aids to avoid heavy lifting. This is why we want each employee over 45 years of age in heavy care professionals to be more able to get an assessment of his/her work situation, with an emphasis on individual organisation. In the municipality of Bærum, all employees over 62 years of age can choose between a bonus withdrawal of NOK 20000 per year, a reduced working time of 80 pst. 100 pst job. wages and salaries, increased free time by 10 days per day. years and 15 days after age 64. Other municipalities have chosen different and even more favourable solutions. Since Norwegian municipalities have different economies, the Left has proposed that the Government organise a state testing scheme so that municipalities with poor finances can apply to finance measures for employees over 62 years of age, in order to provide more equal conditions during a period when some municipalities will receive more expenditure related to the departure of the AFP. It is a major dilemma that employment costs are often much higher today than the costs incurred by enterprises when employees are pushed out of the labour market. It is absolutely necessary to change the contractual pension scheme, so that the AFP builds up below what, among other things. is the objective of the pension reform, namely to increase the number of people in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1117	I think this debate has shown in many ways what we so often see in a political change of words, that there is a fairly broad political consensus on the objectives, at least in Norwegian policy, but that there can often be disagreement on the instruments - the instruments that work as you have thought and which do not work. It is often the case that some of the instruments put in place with the very best intentions can actually prove to be counterproductive. Then I think that we should rather have a sober discussion about what is effective and good instruments, rather than suspecting each other, and that you are not quite as hairy as some have been in this debate. I think it's a little funny when you travel a theme like this, and with the post I made initially, that some representatives -- that's not the council I'm thinking about -- get really hairy just so far away from them. You get the almost impression that it is that the Royal Norwegian Soria Moria party is responsible for everything that is good and beautiful and fine, while everyone else is responsible for everything else that is shaky and crooked. --I see that the representative Myrli nods-- this is probably a culture that characterizes the Royal Norwegian Labour Party to a greater extent than many others. But I think it was nice to note that the representative of Myrli in his post said that the description of the interpellant was not entirely correct. That, I think, was basically a recognition that I was in the vicinity of a point. You might say that the reality description of Myrli's opinion was quite correct, but not entirely. I think that's okay. A year ago, when we dealt with the paper on senior policy, the government announced a review of the special age limits in the state. A unanimous committee was very clear that there were great expectations of the review that the government announced there. I just want to challenge the Council of States to say a few words about where this review is now, how far you've come, and when we can expect to see results from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1126	Before the President of the Council of State Bjarne Håkon Hanssen gets the floor, the President will recall that there is no party called ‘the Royal Norwegian Soria Moria Party’. So it's not represented in this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1129	I will just take the opportunity to comment on some of the points raised in the debate. Let me start by saying that I - it also underlined the representative Engeset - are at least not hurt for criticism. But what I think is important is that the criticism is based on a basis that, in my opinion, is factually correct. That's a little bit of what I took up on one of my previous posts. I believe that the description of the Government as the ‘action lamb’ is factually wrong. It's actually the government doing a lot in this area, and I need to comment on it. I also have to say that some of what I think is most boring in politics is when it becomes to those degrees that there is no connection between life and learning. When I think about the post that the representative Aspaker held here in the room about the situation in the police, I think there is no doubt that it is possible to do more for a good senior policy in the police. The only thing I'm sure, however, is that we're doing more in that area than what the previous government did. The main focus of the senior policy towards the police is that we devote too much attention to local wage negotiations. But the fact is that this government has spent a lot of time and effort turning the focus -- away from this finding its solution through local negotiations, and over to a stronger use of collective agreements. It was the previous government that stood for the policy that Aspaker is now so critical of. Then there were no collective agreements in senior policy, it was the government council Victor D. Norman at most disagreed with. Then it was based on individual agreements, and now it's lifted up at a collective agreement level. It's not hurt that we point it out, but there's a total lack of coherence between life and learning in the Right Party, when the representative Aspacer promotes that kind of criticism. Let me also briefly say that the AFP is a broad consensus in the Stortinget -- that applies to everyone, except the Advance Party. So it's not like you have to be a LO member to get an AFP. If you work in an organised enterprise, regardless of whether you are a trade union or not, you have access to the AFP. Finally. The special age limit is a theme that has now been agreed between the parties to the state and local government settlements to be lifted into the settlement until the next spring, and is seen in the context of the overall public service pension. The first thing to happen is that a party selection, led by me, will work on it, and that will be part of the settlement next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1142	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1156	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1165	The size shall now be used for the examination of Document No. 8:87 on the reinforced criminal sanctions framework for serious crime against competition. The background to the proposal is that criminality of competition, where firms illegally seek to restrict competition for their own gain, is extremely serious because it deprives society of the benefits of competition. I want to commend the proposers for raising an important topic. Put on the tip, this kind of behavior is to be seen as a theft carried out in a planned, deliberate and invisible manner. The special thing about this kind of theft is that the gains of success are huge, while the risks and consequences of being taken are perceived as small. There is hardly any measure that is more profitable for an enterprise than increasing the prices of its products without costing a krone in increased costs. Therefore, criminality of competition could quickly bring benefits on staggeringly high amounts of money. The government has clearly seen that this is a problem, because while the Business Committee was considering the proposal, it concluded that the Government in the revised budget would allocate 4.4 million. to the work of the Competition Authority against such crime. This is a step in the right direction, because it is particularly labour-intensive to detect and investigate this type of crime by resource-intensive business operators. However, the Government Parties and the Advance Party oppose the proposal for increased penalties for serious crime of competition and are likely to justify their position in their own debates. The proposers point out that prisons will be more preventative than fines as a criminal response. It's an assessment that I fully share. Fines are in the worst case accepted by enterprises as a calculated, economic risk, which in many cases can be economic, but not ethically appropriate. The prison sentence, on the other hand, is a far more unpleasant and tangible experience for people in business who have to enter a criminal race path through a breach of competition law. It is an international trend to make a more brief process and to put the people responsible behind lock and switch, as well as to collect large amounts from businesses. There are also recent examples of Norwegian business leaders being imprisoned for such conditions abroad. In its opinion, the Committee notes that prison sentences have not been applied to this type of crime in Norway, and points out that the Council of State considers that an increase in the penal framework will not increase the preventative effect. This assessment is not the minority, consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, agree. It is true that, even today, it is possible to have six years’ imprisonment for serious crime against competition in particularly aggravating circumstances. The right considers that it is important to give a clear signal by increasing the penalties for that type of crime to six years, without a special premium linked to the degree of aggravating circumstances. This is not a very big change, as there are probably aggravating circumstances associated with many such cases, but the signal is clear. The Government's parties believe that the Government's budget increase of 4.4 million. kr would be a more appropriate measure than a more severe penalty. I do not understand that. I think it's hard to prevent this type of crime unless the punishment itself is personally deterrent. Therefore, it is worrying that the government parties will not be in favour of the signal that the penalty instrument should be used to a greater extent than at present for such crimes. No one has so far been in prison for cartel activities in Norway. This may cause such offenders to feel that there is a risk of living with it. The opposition therefore believes that prison sentences should also be used as an instrument. An overall opposition also promotes its own proposal in which it asks the Government to review the current system of relaxation in the Competition Act, with a view to obtaining a more effective rule. It is obvious that the risk of cartel activity being exposed and charged increases if one of the parties involved is able to get lower penalties if all cards are put on the table. Neither have the red-green parties found that they could agree to this. I cannot therefore interpret the attitude in any other way than that the government parties are extremely satisfied with a little more money for the Competition Authority in the revised budget. However, in addition to this, the level of ambition is low for this part of competition policy as well. I would like to address the minority proposals in the vote, and inform you that the Right will vote against the committee's recommendation, which is behind the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1195	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1198	Antitrust activity and illegal cooperation on prices, market sharing and supply are factors that have a major impact on society. Such gross competition crime is something we all want to live on, and we need to step up our efforts to overcome it. Therefore, I think it is very good that this proposal focuses on this challenge here in Stortinget. I am also very happy that we have a government that takes this problem seriously and actually does something about it. The detection and fight against cartel activity is the main task of the Competition Authority, and supervision can point to a wide range of cases in which investigations have led to notification and penalties for both businesses and individuals. In the Committee we have some concerns that we need to intensify the fight against cartels, but the majority still reject the proposal to tighten up the general framework of penalties for such crimes for imprisonment for up to six years. The Norwegian law already opens the prison sentence for cartels, and one can give up to six years of imprisonment after today's law if it is specifically imposed. However, in order to increase the preventative effect of the prohibition provisions of the competition law, it is necessary to provide for more precautionary instruments in place. The Government proposes in its revised additional commitment to the 4.4 million Competition Authority. kr, precisely to strengthen monitoring efforts in this area. The licence will strengthen operational work on the detection and investigation of cartel offences. The extra appropriations will also allow more rapid implementation of monitoring and planning measures. Overall, this will make it more likely that supervision can detect competition crime. I agree with the Council of State that this means more than it would mean tightening up the penal system. The additional rights were also met with enthusiasm in the Competition Authority, which we received when the Committee visited the Competition Authority in Bergen a few weeks ago. We also heard that the investigation of competition crime was a very high priority. The supervision has already strengthened the research function both in terms of resources and competence, and they have purchased specially developed electronic software. They have also started work on developing and implementing methods to identify markets that may be particularly exposed to cartel activity. A tips and source management project is also being performed. But all this requires resources, and then it's important that we have a government that will bet. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State informed the Commission that it had asked the Competition Authority to assess the need to amend the legislation in order to strengthen antitrust work. During the visit to Bergen, I noticed that the supervision is running such a review. One of the measures is relaxation. forms of amnesty or penalty rebate. The Authority is responsible for avoiding notification in leniency cases. The first undertaking to assist the competition authorities in clarifying cartel operations may benefit from a full or partial exemption from fines. There is no doubt that the Government prioritises the fight against anti-competitive crime. In fact, I believe in the measures that the Council of State and the Government have seen. I think it's ambitious, and there's a lot, much more ambitious than increasing the penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1215	Let me first thank the rapporteur for the job. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we agree with much of what the rapporteur said, but in one area we do not agree with the rest of the opposition. Fighting serious crime against competition is important; there is, in fact, a great deal of consensus in this Chamber. If this is to be done, competition supervision must be targeted, an economic framework must be in place to enable it, a priority must be given to competition monitoring, and a competence must also be given. In addition, the tools requested by them must be provided to the Competition Authority. One of the tools requested by the Competition Surveillance Authority is relaxation in the Competition Act. What's interesting is that everyone agrees that it's important to get to -- both the opposition, who has suggested it, the position, which writes it in the notes, and the Council of State, which points to this in its reply letter to the Committee. That's why I'm a little surprised when the positioning parties in this room can't be on proposal No. 1, when there's such a broad consensus about it anyway. So to the penalty framework, where the Progress Party is not with the other opposition parties. As we now assess it, the penalty framework is good enough through Section 30, second paragraph, where one can be sentenced to up to six years in prison if there are particularly aggravating circumstances. As the law is today, you don't have the problem of driving and sticking your head on that roof. Rather on the contrary, the paragraph is almost not actually used, so to increase the penalties, I don't think it's going to solve anything. So I think it's important, to get a broad understanding of society, that you look this up to another type of crime as well. Gross rape has a upper penalty of 21 years. What's really happening is that those who get convicted are going to zone for a few years. Recently it was revealed in the media that a war criminal sentenced to 12 years in prison escaped after six years. So it's the same penalty that you now want to raise. When the penal framework is fully used, we're going to be involved in a new assessment of this. But this is the situation now, we think that giving the Competition Authority what the Competition Authority is asking for, and not least strengthening the Competition Authority in the future, will be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1232	It is good - and indeed obvious - that the Storting agrees that crime against competition is very serious. It's good to be able to establish that. The reason why I take the floor is the rapporteur's suggestion and the assertion that there is a low level of ambition in the government, and that the Council of State has a low level of ambition in this area. I think that measuring the level of ambition based on the penal system, which is now six years old, is going to be a completely wrong approach. What we have to measure the level of ambition from is, first of all, the attitude that the Council of State and the Government have towards this question -- that is, what they say about it -- and, secondly, what resources you put in to deal with the problem. Once you've committed 4.4 million. In order to combat crime against competition through the Competition Authority, it is clear that there are clear ambitions in this area. I also expect the Council of State from the chair of the latter today to confirm that the Government is very concerned about it and actually implements a number of measures both through appropriations and through a clear view that this will be eliminated. That if you raise the frame to 10 or 15 years, you're going to get rid of the problem, I think it's just wrong. What it's about, is a systematic, tough effort to get rid of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1241	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good consideration of our proposal. He has also done the right thing in a good, tidy and transparent way. Competition makes companies more efficient and keeps costs and prices down. Competition transfers power and economic resources from large, dominant companies to small enterprises and to ordinary consumers. So an active competition policy, in other words, provides both value creation and distribution. Competitive crime, where firms try to restrict competition in different ways, is therefore very serious. The Council of State has now signaled that it will strengthen research and make it easier to notify price cooperation. That is well and good, but it is far from enough, because price cooperation is gross economic crime, which in line with the present proposal should be punished with imprisonment. More and more countries are now imposing prison sentences for illegal price cooperation. When large enterprises, knowingly and willfully, agree to set prices or otherwise reduce competition in the market, there is only one objective: to acquire resources from the community, from normal consumers and from small enterprises. This is the most serious form of competition crime. It is often done by business stops that take a cynical assessment of the possible cost of being drawn against the chance of making money. Price cooperation is therefore one of the forms of crime in which the prevention effect of severe penalties is high. There is no real reason to penalise price cooperation less than for example. failure. Nevertheless, price cooperation in this country has never been punishable by prison, only with less fines. For example, for a company with a turnover of DKr 5 billion, a fine of DKr 1.6 million. kr hardly deterrent. This is completely unacceptable. I have difficulty understanding why the red-green government does not support our excellent proposal. Why won't the government implement a change in law that more and more countries see as necessary to counteract this form of crime, which affects smaller businesses and common consumers so hard? Why does the government not want to secure equality for the laws and punishment of law-enforcement business leaders with prisons, as criminals from lower social groups risk? In other words, why does the government use silk gloves to meet lawbreakers in tailor-made suits? Now it is time for the red-green government to remove silk gloves and develop proper gloves.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1260	The fight against anti-competitive crime will be stepped up further, and I am pleased that the proposals of the Christian People's Party take up the fight against this type of crime through their private proposal. And I am pleased that the committee, through its management of the proposal, stresses that crime against competition is very serious and must be severely punished. As the case-speaker and several others have argued, illicit cooperation between competitors on prices and the allocation of markets, known as cartels, can bring great benefits to businesses and would be difficult to discover. The rest of us say we lose. According to international studies, cartels can lead to prices between 15 and 40 pst. over what they would have done otherwise. Poor product and less product development are also the result of such offences. As a result, the Government increases its efforts to combat such offences, both to scare and not least to discover much more. Already today, those who break Section 10 of the Competition Act may be penalised with imprisonment for up to six years if there is a particularly exacerbating circumstance. But, as many people have said, no one has yet been sentenced to prison for offences against competition law. As a starting point, I believe that increasing the prison sentence is not the most effective tool to increase the preventative effect of the ban on competition law. In my view, there is an increased commitment to research, so that serious crime of competition is detected, along with a well-functioning leniency system that can help to detect multiple cartels. That's what the government is doing. I have noticed that the minority indicates that the Competition Authority has claimed that more effective rules for lemping would be a tool to detect competition crime. These parties propose that the Government have a review of the current anti-competitive anti-competitive regime with a view to more effective rules, i.e. proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Then I just want to remind you that the government has already done that. We have, as I have written in a letter to the Committee, in the letter of award to the Competition Authority asked the supervisory authorities to assess the legislation and practice of relaxation with a view to improving the efficiency of the scheme. In addition, in letters of 7 May 2008, I have reminded them - and this is in connection with the promises of the revised national budget - of the call in the letter of allocation and asked them to give a more detailed presentation of the actions they are in the process of implementing, which they are planning to implement, and any changes in their promises that they think there is a need to strengthen enforcement. The supervision has a deadline of 1 July for feedback, and to the extent that the supervision makes proposals to me on amendments to the laws, we will of course consider them. But to criticise the government party in Stortinget for not being involved in a proposal on something that has already been put into effect, I think I'm something untimely by the case-speaker. To ask the government to do something the government has already done would be unnecessary. As I was at the moment, we have suggested strengthening the Competition Authority by 4.4 million. kr in the revised national budget. I hope the Storing will join it. It is not in the light of this currently presented document proposal. It's on the basis of a pre-project that the Competition Authority got money for last year to run. They got money from my department budget last year, so the follow-up is now $4.4 million. kr in the revised national budget, so that we would just get started in the current year with its follow-up. There is a need to strengthen supervision of the enforcement of the prevention features by adding more to these research themes, which I know the Committee was briefed on when they were in Bergen, investment in computer equipment, which is not least important for research, and information measures, for one also has to work prevention in this area. In addition, as I said, I have asked the supervision to assess whether there is a need for legislative or regulatory changes to streamline the procedure and enforcement. Therefore, in my view, it has little preventative effect to increase the penalties for non-compliance with Section 10, without at the same time giving a strong signal that prison sentences should actually be used in breach of this regulation. Today's tacks, to which many people have come, have had no special reality, and I therefore believe that today's punishment is to a large extent good enough if it is exploited. So what's important, is what I'm hearing from today's debate and the Great Council's pulpit, that the Grand Council is calling on the prosecution authority to take advantage of the possibility that is already there. It's an important signal that's being sent from Storting's pulpit today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1277	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1280	The representative Ryan reiterated to my post that one had to measure the Government's ambitions in this matter of what kind of attitude the Government has. In my opinion, the government has a rather naive attitude to this problem. It is believed that by providing a little more money in the revised national budget, this problem can be solved in Norway. It's naive. Looking at developments internationally, more and more countries are seeing the need to use more serious criminal sanctions to prevent this type of crime, and that is because, in any case, it will be easy to initiate price cooperation without being detected if you hide your tracks. That's why it's very surprising to me that the government parties are not involved in the opposition's observation that it's a wish to use prison sentences as a sanction tool to a greater extent than what's being done today. The Council of State was involved in this, so I just want to ask the Council of State once again to confirm that the Government now wants to give a clear signal that the prison sentence must be used against such crime to a much greater extent than that stated in the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1286	It may be naive for two years to actually have increased resources and possibilities for the Competition Authority to work on the case, but I don't want to say it's naive. The representative Torbjørn Hansen said the following: without being discovered, because one hides his tracks. Yeah, that's exactly it. After all, it's not useful to have a prison sentence for something that one can't detect because the Competition Authority doesn't have resources to investigate, the computer tool that doesn't have enough people to go in and uncover, doesn't have enough people to investigate and go into businesses and uncover these tracks that Hansen's representative says he's hiding. So the job must be to start with it, just start with an increased effort to discover it, and to get it into the light. One actually has a penalty of up to six years in a particularly excruciating situation, which lies there, but I can't impose any prosecution powers - it's a free court. But the prosecution authority is what has been said from the Grand Council, and of course it sees political priorities given through letters of assignment and promises in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1291	If I listened correctly, the Council of State said that it is not a prison sentence, but effective investigation that is the best means of combating cartel activity. If it was that being revealed in itself was terrifying, it could be right. But practice shows something else. I know that e.g. In the United States, many people are being taken for cartels who are asking to release prisons and to pay a clumsy fine. I don't think we're that different Americans here in Norway. Some of those who run cartels may also have got their ideas in the United States. So it's enough that the combination of favorable relaxation rules and strict imprisonment, the danger of imprisonment, is what seems best. I understand that the Council of State is not entirely rejecting this, but it will be kind of a bit confident about what it does. My question, then, is, can one assume that after a little more time, the Council of State will end up at the same conclusion as most opposition parties have made today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1296	There is already an opportunity in today's law to use a penalty framework of up to six years, so I feel that this is a slightly convoluted conflict. I can't figure out what's the problem with a penalty framework of up to six years. The problem today is at least as much that one has no resources to investigate, to uncover, because it must be in place before someone is judged. We have arranged this by offering money to the Competition Authority, both last year and this year, which will enable them to do that job infinitely better ways. We have to make thorough assessments. Therefore, I asked in the letter of award already at Christmastime the Competition Authority to advise us where we should step up our efforts further. As I said in my post, we get feedback on 1 July, and we are of course evaluating the feedback we receive, with the utmost interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1303	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3560]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1313	We then vote in favour of the issues that have been debated in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1320	During the debate, Mr Fredriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1345	There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:83 [[2007-2007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1365	During the debate, Mr Wiborg tabled four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to define and specify the professional groups of multidisciplinary diabetes teams in healthcare companies.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to define and specify the tasks and duties of the multidisciplinary diabetes teams in health care establishments.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to base the concreteisation of the composition and tasks of the multidisciplinary diabetes teams in healthcare companies on the National Standards of Diabetes Forum for Hospital Diabetes Teams.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the establishment of interdisciplinary diabetes teams with an ambulatory function from hospitals and out into the municipalities.’ These proposals will be replaced by the Committee's voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1408	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted from the Odelsting meeting on 27 May 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for conditions for the supply of human biological material from research biobanks to the Public Prosecutor’s Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1427	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Gunvald Ludvigsen, on behalf of the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstingen, meeting on 27 May 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review research ethics rules for masters and doctoral degrees based on research on children and young people at the intersection of health and social research and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1446	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 27 May 2008. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the Data Protection Act be reviewed by the Government in the light of research into children and young people and assess whether the Data Protection Act adequately guarantees the rights of children with regard to research and retention of personal data.’ It is the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that are behind the proposal, so the President then assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1464	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1471	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the general penalty framework for infringements of Section 10 of the Competition Act on anti-competitive agreements between undertakings be changed to prison for up to 6 years’. This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1503	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to review the current system of relaxation in the Competition Act with a view to a more effective rule.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-05.ana.ud685e1526	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
