ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e124	The representative of Marianne Marthinsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e133	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected presidents of this week’s meetings. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 1 to 4 is dealt with as a whole, and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e184	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate on the budgetary position be divided into two groups, first dealing with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and St.prp. No 23 and St. Prp. No 25, and then the Framework Area 3 Ministry of Culture together with St.prp. No 27. Furthermore, the President will propose that each of the debates be limited to 65 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and the Minister for Knowledge should be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each during the treatment of Framework Area 2 and that the Minister for Culture and the Church should be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes during the treatment of Framework Area 3. Furthermore, the President will propose that, in both debates, there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Since the debate is divided into two, the President will ask the representatives to present their proposals in the first debate, even if the proposal concerns the cultural aspect.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e199	Thank you very much to the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation. There's a lot of commitment in the committee to care about the vulnerable children. Redd Children recently launched an anti-violence campaign, "please disturb", where there was light for the girl who didn't get to sleep tonight, and for the good that doesn't dare go home, and for the neighbor who dares to care. Violence against children is one of Norway's most under-communicated social problem. During one week, there were 274 children who contacted the auxiliaries because they were exposed to the power of their mother or father. This impresses us all. The pain and despair such children experience is a tragedy. We need a lot of different tools to help and secure these children and other children who, for different reasons, cannot live with their family, a safe everyday life. Different parties may have different answers. But cross-political cooperation is important to find solutions that provide security for the children. I assume that the different parties will come up with their views on this and other areas in the budget. I want to focus on the Christian People's Party's policy. Too many children actually have an important role to play in the protection of children throughout their childhood. Therefore, it is important that child protection has a framework that allows them to give the children what they think is best for them. The Christian People's Party believes that the provision of child protection is not suitable for competition. Then someone will think that the Christian People's Party was involved in introducing offer when we were in government, and that's right. At the same time, however, we made exceptions for supply requirements when it applied to ideal businesses without a commercial purpose. This was found in, among others. St.meld. No 15 for 2004–2005. Feedback from non-profit organisations operating within the field of child protection is that they experience much more difficult conditions under this government than under the previous one. We know that Bufetat has had a limited bidding competition for non-profit organisations these days. But based on the information that the Christian People's Party has been given access to, there are several points that the ministry has given in its leadership to non-profit organizations and foundations, which have not been followed up in the bidding competition. We've become aware that Styve Gard in Hordaland has been accommodated three places, while they today have 14 and had been approved for 18 places one week before they were offered only three places. It goes without saying that operating an institution based on only three places is very difficult. The institution is in demand. No other institution of this type is in the vicinity. If this institution is laid down, the children must travel far away. The subsidiarity criterion may not have been emphasised. It has taken 20 years to build up skills that can now go doll. This is serious. This is one of several examples that make the Christian People's Party present proposals today where we ask the Government to ensure that the child protection institutions as per. today has an operating agreement with Bufetat, is extended until 31 December 2009. At the same time, we are asking for a case to be brought to the Stortinget for a new scheme for the protection of children. Many contributors to institutions report concerns related to price pressure and short-sightedness and lack of focus on quality and on children’s needs. There are children in institutions who live in fear that the world in which they live is going to go bankrupt. The Christian People's Party is concerned about whether the children get the most tailored offerings, or whether it is the economic priorities that govern what the children are offered. I sincerely hope that the Government will now stop and support the proposals submitted in order to get into the situation that has arisen. The Christian People's Party has in its alternative budget proposals of 50 million. kr more for child protection. We want all child-restraints to have access to after protection, and seen by 10 million. extra kr to strengthen this. Christian People's Party proposes 10 million. extra to measures for the elderly and better follow-up of children in the foster home. Professional rights for all foster parents and increased focus on the recruitment of foster homes are important. It is tragic that many children today are waiting to come to a foster home. Good leisure activities are important, especially for children and young people. Then it becomes a paradox that we received a message on Thursday that the Salvation Army's child and youth work was told from the Distribution Committee that they will miss 1.2 million for 2009. in the case of State aid because of new instructions on the award of State aid to children’s and youth organisations. Thus, 6,000 children and young people who enjoy going to the corps, choirs or spears of the Salvation Army can become frames because the mother organization has guidelines that the Government does not like. In this case, a lot of tolerance will not be signaled. The guidelines are adopted politically. The Christian People's Party expects the Council of State to review them and to ensure that it provides State aid without directing the views of the organisations. As appeals, we hope that the Council of State will ensure that the Salvation Army is given the support of the important low-threshold service they provide to many children and young people. On Friday, the government came with a human message. It's great to focus on the role and equality of men. It's very important. We are disappointed, however, that after more than three years of plural power, the Government has not fulfilled its promise to impose self-rights for fathers. The Christian People's Party has proposed it several times, most recently in our alternative budget. Furthermore, we have actually proposed to extend the paper issue by four weeks without taking off the already existing leave period, as the government has done with two of the four weeks they have now proposed. The Christian People's Party believes that all fathers should be able to be home for the first two weeks. In the first part of life, contact with parents is the most important thing. It is important for the whole family that all fathers are given the opportunity to take part in the parental leave, both to strengthen the role of fathers as carers and for gender equality. Gender equality is also a question of wage policy. We are therefore surprised that no one else has joined the Christian People's Party's proposal on pay policy. It is important that a good family policy facilitates childbirth – for those who want it. In order for a life course to begin at all, parents must see that it is economically possible to put a child into the world. Today, it is very difficult if one or both parents are not in the workplace. We are therefore proposing in our alternative budget to radically increase the single-entry benefit at birth and adoption to 1 G, i.e. from approx. NOK 33 000 to NOK 70 000. A good childcare policy combined with cash support is important. The Minister of Knowledge said a short time ago that those who have access to kindergarten would rather do so. Cash support is a system that benefits very little, and even less is going to benefit from it when we get full coverage, the Council of State has said. BLD has looked at a selection of 18 municipalities – one municipality from each of the counties outside Oslo – that according to the Ministry of Knowledge had full child care coverage by the end of 2007. According to data from the Labour and Welfare Directorate, an average of 52 psts was received at the same time. by the parents of the one- and two-year-olds in these municipalities. That's the cut. In some municipalities there were as many as 83 pst. who received cash support. For the Christian People's Party, it's not a goal that most people should benefit from cash support, but it's not true that full coverage means that there's no end to the need for cash support. Therefore, the Christian People's Party proposes to increase the cash support to NOK 4000 per person. month to ensure a greater freedom of choice for several parents. It's important that everyone who wants kindergarten is given it, and that kindergarten provision is of high quality. We are concerned about the lack of pre-school teachers and the strong increase in the number of dispensations from the qualification requirement. We need to do more to get more preschool teachers to stay in the profession. Many private kindergartens are difficult. That's especially true of the smallest. Many have to cut their wages and salaries and add them to their working conditions. They have to raise loans to survive, and they have to increase parental pay, cut quality, and, worst case, shut down operations. We are concerned that next year, too, the Government does not have proposals to ensure more equivalent treatment for private and municipal kindergartens. Therefore, the Government should immediately come up with a case on how they will ensure non-discrimination between municipal and private kindergartens. The inclusion of this in the framework of municipalities will not ensure the progress of private kindergartens. We want to continue to have a shortage of childcare facilities, both in terms of ownership and educational and valuable profiles. Many experience challenges in society – it is not always easy to live together. Therefore, it is so important to carry out preventive work on lifelong learning and good competence and access to family protection. In both of these areas, the Christian People's Party is proposing a strong increase. I believe that in many areas we will be able to do so, because preventive work may seem positive to very many people. It's a paradox when you know that there's a long queue in the family protection offices, and that many people who want help don't get it in time. I want to address the proposals of the Christian People's Party alone or together with the Left, when it applies to both frames.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e233	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e238	In the budgetary position, the Christian People's Party, together with the government parties, makes a comment saying that the appropriations for child protection purposes should go as far as possible to help children and young people who need it, and not to pay dividends to commercial operators. Does this mean that the Christian People's Party is now, for real and fundamental reasons, separating layers with the other opposition parties, which, in a note, say that private, commercial players are desirable and that a system of outsourcing of child protection services should be introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e245	The most important thing for the Christian People's Party is that children get the care they need, regardless of which actors offer it. We have both ideal and commercial forces within child protection, and we will also need them in the future. But the Christian People's Party wants to give priority to the public and to the private, non-profit organizations. The resources used by the State for child protection purposes shall be as direct as possible to the work planned by the State as opposed to the payment of dividends. That's why we're a few in that twist. But we are concerned about many of the voluntary, non-profit organisations and the foundations that are operating within the field of child protection today, who feel that they get a lot more stringent working conditions with this government than they did with the previous one. I wish the Government could really take this, because we don't want to smother the private initiative and the non-profit organizations' important work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e252	Like the Christian People's Party, we in the Advance Party are aware that the church family protection offices were started long before family protection became part of the public offer. For many years, church family protection offices have been at the forefront of providing families with a safe and sound framework around a difficult topic. The prevention of family protection is invaluable and supports a committed parenthood and good cooperation between parents, even after a break in life. The government and Bufetat have been working for several years to ensure that the Church's family protection is integrated as much as possible into the state's family protection. If the Government succeeds in doing so in the future, it will no longer be possible to choose between a state and a non-state offer. How will the Christian People’s Party ensure genuine two - trailed family protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e261	I agree with the Progress Party that it is very important to have a lack of and good family protection, and that we should ensure a two-track family protection. But I'm not in agreement with the Progress Party that proposes to transfer money from public family protection to church family protection, because it's not every place we have a church family protection. Then it is important that we secure the most possible resources in total for family protection, and therefore the Christian People's Party has proposed a strong increase in the rights of family protection, which can benefit both the church and the public family protection offices. I could have wished that the Progress Party had also, in its alternative budget, prioritised this and focused on the need for more funds. But it's very important that anyone who wants to go to the family protection offices to get guidance and mediation gets a good deal. It's important that we have a lack that we've had up to today, and there might have been enough government to do even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e270	From the point of view of the SV, the introduction of cash support has had many negative consequences. One of the most serious is that kindergarten as a preventive child protection measure is not now being used to the same extent as before, because it costs a lot to say no to cash support. Degraded rates have also led to the fact that you cannot afford to say no to cash support. We believe that this has given less freedom of choice and no more. But the Christian People's Party now proposes is: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case that provides children over 3 years of age with free core time in kindergarten if their parents receive cash support for younger siblings.’ Furthermore, it is important for children with a minority background to be in kindergarten for language development purposes. In the previous period, the small child supplement was taken from normal parents, while parents who had cash support were assigned to keep it. What about all the other children who do not have parents receiving cash support? Shouldn't they also have free core time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e284	Cash support has been an important tool for giving an option, but I have registered that SV has in any case been against cash support and has used different arguments in this context. In any case, many with a minority background would have chosen to be home with their children in the early years. Cash support gives them better advice, it's more economical, and it means most for those who have the least. Then the Christian People's Party has a proposal here that those who are at home with children in cash support age, and have children older than the cash support age, will have free core time in the kindergarten, because we see that learning Norwegian can be challenging if the children are not allowed to go to kindergarten before they start school. That is why we have taken this challenge seriously, and in some areas of Oslo, children are offered free core time in kindergarten. We think that's positive. We also see good signs when it comes to language development, and that's why we're looking at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e291	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e295	Recently called World Economic Forum Norway to the world's most equalised country. This has not come off of itself. This has come after clear political decisions that have led to systematic changes in our society through budgetary measures, legislative changes and changes in attitudes. Norway tops the list, among others because of our high participation of women in politics. But it wouldn't have been possible without a sex quota. Norway is passing Sweden on the ranking, because we have so many women in corporate boards. But it would never have been possible without the law of 40 pst. women of the ASA controllers. Had the Progress Party had managed gender equality policy in Norway, perhaps only the Arab countries had been behind us on this ranking. In its draft budget, the Progress Party is raging the appropriations for the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, an institution which is important to follow up the law we have in the field of equality and which is a driving force to fill the gap that remains before we can adorn ourselves as an equal society. The report from the World Economic Forum tells us that despite being the best, we have not yet achieved full equality. We have a job to do before we fill the gap. Gender equality and women's participation in society are profitable and give countries an economic competitive advantage. This documents the World Economic Forum in its report. Norway has the highest professional participation among women in the world, while giving birth to more children than our European sisters. This is an impossible combination in most other countries. In Norway, this is possible because we have a uniquely organised working life, with family-friendly working hours, the world’s best parental leave scheme and good childcare solutions for children through a good childcare facility. We are improving these arrangements through the draft budget. The red-green government is about to pass the finish line in the job of getting full babysitting. About 96 pst. of the children who started school in the fall have gone to kindergarten. From being a good thing for the few, kindergartens have become an offer to the large majority of children between one and six years of age. The 2002 kindergarten agreement and the subsequent massive expansion of kindergartens are a major reform which means much to young children’s parents. Newly-baked parents are now free to lose their night sleep because of the lack of childcare facilities for the small person. So there is no small reform that has now been implemented. Since 2003, more than 60,000 children have been accommodated in kindergarten. Today, we spend SEK 13.8 billion more on kindergartens than we did in 2003. This means an increase of 170 pst. At the same time as the massive expansion, the price of kindergarten has been reduced. We have introduced a maximum price of NOK 2 330. In municipal kindergartens, the price of a kindergarten is reduced by 37 p.p., while in private kindergartens, the price is almost halved. These price reductions have resulted in more parents now able to afford to have their children in kindergarten, which has resulted in more demand for kindergarten than we could see in 2003. We view kindergartens as a prerequisite for women's participation in the profession, and thus as an important contribution to the creation of value added. But most importantly, we view kindergarten as an important social arena and an important learning arena. A new research report from the Ministry of Knowledge and the Institute of Public Health shows that children aged 18 to 36 months who go to kindergarten have a better language. Particularly large are the estimates for minority children and for children with low-educated parents. The use of cash support was almost halved after the red-green government took over. However, for a group, use is increasing, among minority speakers. Many children miss a lot of learning and development because of the cash support. It would have worsened further if we had, as the Right and Left do, increased the price of the nursery. Still, children in Norwegian schools who do not speak a single word Norwegian and who have not received the important social training by being with many other children before they begin school. I've begun to wonder what the opposition's ambitions in kindergarten policy are. If you read the comments on the Right and the Left, you can really fool. The right is critical that the government builds too many kindergartens on too short a time, because this can go beyond quality. At the same time, they are opposed to keeping the maximum price down, because you choose to prioritize development first. What do you really mean? Are you in favour of, or are you against, full child-care? Similar questions can be asked regarding the lawmaking of the court. There's law enforcement because you don't have full coverage yet, while criticizing the government for not being too ambitious. What does the opposition want - what is their alternative? The Workers' Party is engaged in the Federation role, and therefore the State Council presented Huitfeldt on Friday's first big deal about the human role. Norwegian men take more responsibility for their children than the fathers in other countries do. Today is 90 pst. by the fathers entitled to parental leave at home with their own children. There has been a revolution in the care of men for their own children since the introduction of the parental quota in 1993, because, in addition to the fact that men are at home with their small children in the context of birth, the equality studies show that fathers are currently spending more time with their children and are also taking greater responsibility for their daily domestic tasks. But despite fathers taking a greater part in care, there's a lot left before we have an equal parent. Still, women take primary responsibility for children and households, and toddlers are the group that works most overtime. Only 17 pst. by the fathers take leave in addition to the six weeks of father's allowance. The government's proposal to extend the spring quota by four weeks in next year's budget will be an important step towards a more equal parenthood. In addition, the Government is signalling further enlargement of the human role, which will result in father being granted parental leave for at least three months and two weeks paid leave in connection with birth. Norway has had a steady increase in birth rates since the Governments of Gro Harlem Brundtland in the 1990s increased the parental leave considerably and introduced the birth rate. We also see that the number of births is higher among Norwegian couples who share the parental leave. We've seen the same trend in Iceland. Icelandic women have ended up at birth in Europe after extending and introducing thirds of parental leave. Sickness about Norway is a good country to live in, not all children have equal growth conditions. Many children grow up in families with major drug problems and with major social problems. As a society, we have a duty to help these children and their families. The red-green government does not accept that children in Norway live in poverty and in unworthy conditions. In this context, child protection is also important. We've seen in recent years that the number of children receiving child protection has increased. It could mean two things, either that more children and families need help, or that municipal child protection has become better at seeing the children who need help. Many children get good help from child protection. At the same time, we know that many children get help too late. The increase in the number of emergency positions may indicate this. We have an important job ahead of us to make child protection better. Interaction between the various public agencies is still too random. Here the new Minister for Children has taken action to ensure that children receive help as early as possible. The switch from an institution to more home use requires better follow-up of foster parents and good pay and pension conditions for the municipal foster families, as for the state. Children have the right to good growth relationships regardless of their social background. In a country like Norway, we have a duty to ensure that all children can live a good life and have equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e344	I will put away the question that I had originally intended to ask the representative Gjul, because she said something in her post that I actually need to clarify. The representative Gjul said that there are actually many minority children starting school without being able to speak Norwegian. Then it's very interesting for us to hear what the Workers' Party has been going to do with it. Is it the case that you have to coerce minority children into kindergartens, or is it the case that you have to make kindergarten mandatory in order not to stigmatise one group of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e351	The representative Woldseth addresses a very important question in relation to the group that is most difficult when they start school, just the minority-speaking children. It is quite obvious that we need to facilitate that several of these children get the opportunity to participate in the important activity it is to be in kindergarten before they start school. One of the measures already in progress, which should obviously be extended, is free core time. In parts of Oslo, then, free core time has been set up, and other cities with free core time are also active. In addition, both the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party have a discussion in connection with the programme work on introducing an opportunity for pre-school training before the children begin school. This will also be an important measure for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e358	The representative Gjul had a great post in relation to all the children's right to have a good growth, and of course, not least the children who live under difficult conditions, the ones we often call the poor. At the same time, I noticed that the representative Gjul criticized the Right because we had put on a couple of hundred kroner at the maximum price in the kindergartens. It raises a problem that is about what's most important. Is it most important to take care of the poor, or is it important that most of us, who have quite good advice, have to pay 200 kroner from or to the maximum price? It's a distribution theme. As the government puts up the race, it's really a big transfer from society to those who really have it pretty good from before. Right up that list, but we also put in a series of targeted measures for those who need it the most. Does not the representative Gjul think that this is a good priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e363	The most important thing we can do to get the most children into kindergarten, and to give their parents the opportunity to have their children there, is to have as low a price as possible – then we embrace the most parents. That's exactly what we saw in the 2003 kindergarten agreement, that we haven't been able to estimate how many parents want to have their children in kindergarten. There are many more parents who want it, and who have the opportunity to do it, precisely because we've halved the price of kindergarten for the children who go to private kindergarten, and that's a reduction in the price of 37 pst. for children who go to public kindergarten. In addition, each municipality has free space schemes for those who have the most difficulty. The very largest municipalities also have a quite large graduated payment. If we're going to be able to embrace as much as possible, we need universal arrangements. It's always been typical for the Right that you don't want the universal arrangements, but you kind of try to run after and find solutions for the very, the poorest. We're trying to embrace everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e370	There are a few things I really don't understand, so I hope maybe the representative Gjul has an answer to me. One is that last year the government regulated child care prices. This year, left kindergarten prices are regulating, and that is a great threat to the equivalency. It wasn't last year. The second is that when you're really going to reach the poorest, there's an income-differentiated payment that would be the best, and I know a lot of municipalities are struggling to do that, but it's been complicated with the maximum price policy that the government has put in. But when the representative gets questions about how we're really going to reach these groups, it's not the price that's being mentioned, it's actually the free core time and the other tools that the Left agrees with. Why is it that when the Left does what the Government did last year, there is a great threat, and when you look at the real tools, which is what the representative addressed now, there are none of the instruments associated with the maximum price?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e379	Firstly, I would like to inform the representative Skei Grande that the government did not regulate last year's maximum price. It was the very first year we were in government, we did it. What we've recognised is that if we're going to be able to have as many children as possible, and if the kids are going to be able to go to kindergarten, we have to try to achieve the maximum price goal. Now the government has taken a decision that will hopefully come out in 2012 with the target we set in 2002–2003 at a maximum price. So both the Right and the Left try to make it so that all the income grader and all the schemes for those who have the most difficulty are gone. That's not right. In addition to the fact that we have now received a maximum price, the price of kindergartens halved, among other things. In private kindergartens, most municipalities have, among others: retained the free residence arrangements for those with the lowest infects. A large number of municipalities also have a graduated residence payment scheme for those with difficult finances.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e386	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e389	Also in the 2009 budget, the Progress Party will highlight the family as one of the most important pillars of society, and pursuing an active and proper family policy will bring significant social benefits in the short and long term. It is important for us to have this as a foundation at the bottom and as a premise for the rest of this budget framework. First to kindergartens. The party of progress is probably the party that, over the years following the big kindergarten agreement, has been in the best position to follow the agreement. In the budget setting it may seem that the opposition is almost fighting to give money to the kindergartens for them to be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. Nevertheless, it will only be a game for the gallery as long as the Workers' Party and SV do not want to take the necessary steps to ensure equal treatment of public and private kindergartens. We in the opposition should be able to get together, so that all the private kindergarten drivers out there actually understand that there are people who appreciate the job they do for half of all kindergarten children who go to private kindergartens. It is a fact that one of the premises in the conciliation, and ever since, has been that all parties have said that they will treat private and public kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner. This was the main requirement of the Progress Party in the draft representative we promoted together with SV in 2001. We haven't forgotten that since, while some of the parties in the hall obviously just talk about non-discrimination without lifting a finger to get it done. SV, who stood loaded and broken together with the Advance Party until they came into government, has failed. They have failed thoroughly when you think that they have both the Ministry of Kindergarten and the Minister of Finance. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party and the rest of the opposition want to make people believe that this is a lifting from the Government. It's not at all. The premises for this promise were laid long before this government took over the chairs, and now they use all the excuses they can to get away from the fact that private kindergartens have to close or go bankrupt often because municipalities spend money on things other than kindergartens. Then I refer to Telemark's research, which says that over NOK 1 billion of child care money is spent on other things, because you simply don't want to treat private and public kindergartens in the same way. There has never been more money allocated to kindergartens. For the Progress Party, however, it is most important that all the parties in this room come together and rework or refresh the old agreement, so that we can be sure that all the parents who want a kindergarten place will have it, that all kindergarten drivers have a predictable framework to deal with, and that all kindergartens are treated in a non-discriminatory way. So to child protection. There is no doubt that we need child protection, but it is the device of this child protection that we need to discuss, when it is possible to let young people stay in hotels for a month because they do not have control of the person at the institution, or when young people escape from the institution and engage in criminal acts against others because there is no right offer for them. Isolation of these young people in ordinary institutions is not a good solution to the problem. Child protection is very good, but in 2008 we also have to assume that we may need a revision of the law on child protection services of 1992. Many of the young people with behavioural problems, who also have adult problems alongside, such as drug dependence and violent behaviour, have not had the schooling they require and often have poor self-esteem and mental problems. On the night of Sunday, I followed the babysitting guard in Bergen. What I saw and experienced there, set its tracks, which is going to follow me for a long time. The involvement and care that employees showed for children and young people with problems was quite impressive. These were people with long seas in child protection, and had the requisite ballast and competence to ‘read’ the children and find solutions to acute problems. One theme they brought up with me was that because state child protection pays their child protection educators far better than the municipal authorities, the municipalities and first-line services lose people with the most experience in the state child protection. The municipalities are left with the newly educated, and they are the ones who come in contact with the children. This is a problem I think we should look at, so that we do not lose so much competence in the municipalities. There are a lot of kids who need an emergency offer. We have emergency services in Norway, but within a very large number of them, it is exaggerating, aggressive and, in part, addicted to youth. This is not a place to place a child on e.g. eleven years, which is afraid and need a free minute from an angry father. It could have been nice if you were in connection with, for example: children’s homes also had one or two beds or perhaps weekend places, so that the group of children, where there is almost a clarification with the family going to, have a place to stay overnight or where the institutions are not able to mobilise the staff during the weekend. This is also a problem we should consider. We see from the Riksrevision's annual report that there is still a lot of work to be done to control the economy, tenders, etc. A few years have passed since the reform, and the Progress Party feels that it is incredibly bad that the Council of State and the Ministry have still not been able to control either the economy, the stability or the tenders. This should be a priority in the coming years. Then to the financial crisis. Some people probably wonder why I come into this issue here, but the matter is that under our framework there are also consumer policy measures. And among many good measures is the crisis phone for victims of debt. We see that some people go so far that they consider suicide because the debt has taken over in these times of crisis. Then it is more important than ever that there is a crisis phone through the Debt Victim Alliance, which can provide advice to those who need it, and I hope that the Council of State will continue the crisis telephone response in 2009, because there is certainly nothing to suggest that the problems will be smaller in the year to come. And when the government has failed in its poverty reduction, we must at least make sure that there are some in the third sector, as far as possible, who can provide help to those who seek advice. We also know that the waiting time for municipal debt advisors is now up to one year, resulting in additional costs for those waiting, in the form of interest and debt collection fees. That's why it's very important that they have a place to go, which can give advice on what to do while they're waiting. Finally, I would like to say a little about crisis measures. The Progress Party does not support the legalisation of the crisis centre offer, but that does not, of course, mean that we do not support the crisis centres. The government has submitted, and has been adopted, a law prohibiting sex purchases in Norway. It comes into force on 1 January, and then, we're going to believe both newspapers and prostitutes, the sex trade is going on behind closed doors, i.e. indoors. That means that many of these women will be subjected to violence, because they no longer have the opportunity to see their customers in the same way that they had when they were out on the street. What has the Council of State done to ensure that in all cities there will now be extra preparedness and a genuine offer to women who are subjected to violence in connection with closed sex trafficking? Are you prepared, or are they rejected, as drug addicts and violent women become today? We're good in Norway with violent women, but are we good enough? I hope that the Council of State will come to this in its article. With this I address the proposals that the Advance Party alone or together with others has in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e423	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e429	I just have to admit that I do not stop to wonder about the Progress Party – neither when I hear the article, nor when I read the setting. Karin S. Woldseth argues very strongly for the kindergarten agreement, and has in the past also been very indignant if she is not mentioned as one of the mothers of this conciliation. At the same time, budgetary remarks warn against increasing the number of family tasks being transferred to the state. I'm going to think that the only thing that's now being transferred to the state is that the kids are going more and more into kindergarten. In addition, when you are concerned about the consequences of young children spending so much time in kindergarten – it's almost amazing – you actually start at the opposite end. The consequences should be looked at before the scheme is introduced. This is one way to double communicate. The other way in which the Progress Party doubles is that in the financial situation they adjust the amount of child benefit costs, but in the position of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, they do not adjust it costly. In their financial position, they do not advocate equal treatment for kindergartens, but in the budgetary position of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, they advocate equal treatment. So the question is, are you in favour of or against adjusting the nursery prices? Is there equivalent or equivalent treatment for kindergartens? Or are you both for and against? Anyway, you spend the money twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e438	No, we don't. If the representative Gjul had read our comments on Framework 2 and the financial position, she would see us adjusting the increase in child welfare that we did in the financial position – as we lost there – in the framework when the framework was put in place, and they transferred the money to kindergartens. Otherwise, in terms of equivalent treatment: we want equivalent treatment, of course, and we're going to fight for that. And the fact that we have this nursery arrangement is of course because the parents should have the option to choose, because you don't have full child care coverage, nor do your parents have a real choice between cash support and kindergarten because you need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e445	When the Progress Party in a comment in the budget setting states that no one proposes such a stepping up of funds when applying equivalent treatment, as the Progress Party does, it may not be surprising that it is a little bit of a reaction since the Progress Party in its original alternative budget has not proposed more non-discrimination money. But I'm assuming that there's a mistake, because I know that the Progress Party is occupied by equivalent treatment. So the criticism that has been raised against the Government, I agree when it's true that they haven't done anything to get a more equivalent treatment – and it all frames. Another point that I want to challenge the Progress Party is equality, because many of the inclusion proposals are cut in the equality area. Equality does not come about by itself, and we know that a lot in society has evolved in the right direction, because we have more equality between women and men, and more men have taken responsibility. A conscious and active job has been required for equality, so why won't the Progress Party support the kind of organisations that are involved in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e452	That's why you see that it's one-sided towards gender equality. We are of the opinion that women and men are equivalent and therefore do not need any special organisations working separately, as the Equality Ombudsman may feel. I also want to comment on this with equal treatment. In the financial situation, we are increasing the municipal budget by NOK 5 billion, and within that there must also be room for, we think, to treat the private and public kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e459	In its statement, the representative of the Progressive Party expresses great distrust of the municipalities in order to settle the issue of non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. We know that there have been earmarked funds all along, and we also know that this has been a matter that the Progress Party has raised many times. Why, then, is there such great confidence in the municipalities in the position of this budget? There has also been a small proportion, an escalation, for equivalent treatment. If the Advancement Party had been worried, you should have added NOK 1 billion. So for equality. The Progress Party says that such measures are unnecessary, that in some cases they will prevent real equality. I am very concerned about what the Progress Party believes here – that action to promote equality leads to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e468	I didn't hear the last one, but I can take the first one. We are very concerned with the equivalent treatment of private and public kindergartens. That we haven't added $1 billion is absolutely correct. We have added NOK 5 billion to the municipalities in the financial situation. Now it is that from 2006 this money has been transferred to the municipalities. They've gone into the frame. Afterwards we have seen that the municipalities do not use the money as they should. I would like the Council of State to have had the means – we have so far seen it, but not enough – to knock down those who use these earmarked funds, 1 billion kroner of them, to other than kindergartens. What we're doing in our budget is kind of a symbol action to show that we haven't forgotten equivalent treatment. So in the financial situation, we've increased by NOK 5 billion. We hope that it will be enough for all municipalities to treat all kindergartens in the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e477	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e480	The financial crisis, the expected decline in economic growth and an uncertain labour market will affect us all next year. Despite the fact that the Government claims that the state budget is well adapted to the crisis, we note that this theme is not included in the budget proposal – but there is no doubt that family policy will also be affected by it. It hits the families in the middle of the critical point, which is about predictability in terms of economics. The most important thing we can do is to secure a framework around home and work. There is a need for a good fiscal policy focusing on factors limiting high housing rates, inflation and unemployment. It is important for the right to have good social security networks that take care of families with problems that they cannot deal with. We have to make sure that those who need it the most, also get the most help. Today's policy follows a tradition where well-being is spread to everyone, whether or not they succeed. It is thoughtful when in a few years we have increased the effort for kindergartens from – how much there was – SEK 4.6 billion in 2001 to approx. 24 billion dollars this year, while we see that the group of the poor is going to be hanging after. Here the Right wants a different course. So in our budget you'll see that the Right chooses to satisfy the families that really need it. We give increased child support to child-rich families. We want to introduce income graded parental payment into kindergartens, on a completely different scale than is the case today. We focus on much better resource management in child protection and increase the contribution to child protection. We create schemes for children who fall outside society, through poverty measures and specific grant schemes for those who need it the most. In the past as well as in the current period, kindergarten policy has been central. The main objective, full child care coverage, is now soon a fact. Now new political themes are on the agenda here. The question becomes the contents of the nursery. Questions about compulsory kindergarten or preschool have been raised, without any particular enthusiasm from our side. At all, it becomes a question of what you want with the kindergarten. The right backbone of these issues is to strengthen families and to underpin the importance of families such as the arena of learning, of building relationships, of security, of love and of belonging. It is dangerous when the state becomes so strong that individuals are almost forced to live their lives in harmony with the ideals set up by the state for us. It pulverizes the sense of responsibility and the initiative to safeguard its own well-being, leading to conformity and a less dynamic and adaptable society as a whole. Right is a party that believes that the State should know its limitations in intervening in the domestic affairs of families, namely how individuals set up their lives, take care of each other and create good communities. The state should care, but not include. The vast majority of families take responsibility for themselves and primarily need real choices that enable them to make the most of their own needs. Kindergarten is good, but we politicians have to show humility in relation to the fact that kindergarten may not be as good for all children of all ages. The government's tactful emphasis on the fact that kindergarten is the only charity, appears to be a mental attack on many families that would like to behave differently. Instead of being a tabber of the compact majority, the government should invite other forms of care to appear to be good. Confusing absolute truths is a dangerous sport. The studies the government likes to draw out, that children in kindergarten learn more math, read better and are more schooly to legitimize that kindergarten is good, shows only part of the picture and must not extend beyond that content. The life of young children, their development as humans, their association and relations with their families, and their inner motivated learning through natural curiosity may not be measurable, but is crucial to developing into a well-functioning human being, not only in school, but in life in general. The right is a knowledge party that believes that the social-democratic school model and the lack of knowledge focus we have seen in school over decades have had unfortunate consequences for each child and for Norway as a knowledge nation. However, we do not believe that the problems of poor schooling are solved by more pedagogically organized education in kindergartens. The school's problems must be solved by school policy. The government must also ensure that we get a better school and not explain Norway’s mediocrity in school performances with the lack of stimulation of young children. Parents shall be able to choose the form of care for their children and shall also be able to share duties and responsibilities within the family according to their own needs and wishes. Nevertheless, we agree that it has been a good deal for a period of time to allocate a certain proportion of the leave period to father through a spring quota. We also support an extension of the parental quota, but believe it is a violation of the government declaration when two of the weeks of enlargement are taken from the period that is now due to both parents and transferred to father alone. There must be room for greater flexibility and freedom of choice within families, not less. As I see it, our greatest responsibility is that of politicians linked to the children and families who, for various reasons, do not master their lives. Unfortunately, we see a caretaker who obviously doesn't work well enough, we have a psychiatry offer that is also unable to meet the challenges that lie there, and we have a child protection that doesn't work well enough either. This concerns us, and in particular I have focused on how child protection has evolved after the government change. I would like to draw out here three main steps that we believe the Government has seriously bombed in terms of child protection. Firstly, we are concerned that a fear-based power structure has been developed in the state's child protection system, which has contributed to a very unfortunate climate in the relationship between the state as a provider of child protection services and private individuals providing child protection services. The new purchasing system, which distinguishes between state, non-profit and commercial in the bidding rounds, is of the opinion that we contribute to child protection with less diversity, poorer resource management and loss of professionally good competences and actions. The right also considers that it is not sufficiently clear whether acquisitions in the protection of children are covered by the EEA rules or whether Norwegian competition law governs the procurement procedures. There is therefore a great deal to be taken into account in the protection of state children in order to ensure that there is a sensible management of resources that ensures that all children have an appropriate and high-quality offer. There is a need to stimulate a wide variety of offers and equal treatment of all actors for the benefit of the child. Secondly, we believe that the turn the government has wanted, from institutional position to foster home, is being carried on too categorically and bastantly. It's not that institution per. definition is a inferior offer in relation to living in a foster family. The professional environment is now very divided in view of this, and it is unfortunate when political decisions are taken on such a divisive basis. We also have reason to suspect that there are economic reasons behind such a priority. Institution is expensive, but it often provides the professional offer with the best effect for the individual child. Thirdly, it is critical that we have a dramatic increase in the number of emergency positions, and that the duration of these emergency positions seems to be increasing. There have been clear signals to us that the high level of conflict between the state and the municipality has contributed to this increase. It is important for us that decisions are taken by professionally competent child-restraint workers as closely as possible to the individual child. Now, decisions are often made in violation of what the professionals closest to the child think is right. We see that disagreement also coincides with the cost of the offer, and therefore reminds us that all children in child protection under the Child Protection Act are entitled to an adapted offer, not just the cheapest offer. With that, I'll take up the suggestions on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e512	Then the representative Olemic Thommess brought up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e517	I listened with great interest to the contributions of the representative Thommessen and have also read with great interest the main comments of Højre – and their ideological stand for their family policy. From a note of great interest, I would like to quote: ‘In today’s society, the big family is almost gone, we see growing breakups in life and families are in severe trouble. The increase in family violence, drug abuse and mental disorders may be related to these changes in family life.’ What I'm wondering about the representative Thommes being able to answer is: Does Right think that family violence is a new phenomenon that did not exist in the big society, or is it that Right wants to go back to the old peasant society? In that case, they must change their agricultural policy. Or do you want to go back to the old housewife, so women go back to the kitchen bench?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e527	Of course, there has always been family violence. Unfortunately, it does. But we also see that there has been a negative development in relation to it, and that we live in a society where the community members have quite large stress factors around them. Taking care of the family as a framework is about having a good foundation for the security of life in general. And security, predictability, is actually, I think, an important factor in countering family violence as well. It's about trust in close relationships, and it's about the ability to take responsibility. The problem with the government's policy is that the state assumes responsibility all the time, and that makes the inhabitants disclaim responsibility. You look at the state as someone who arranges for you, instead of feeling the responsibility for actually caring for your own well-being and internal family welfare. That's the right starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e533	The government has attacked the offer received by children in private child protection institutions. The government does not seem to care whether or not children receive a good offer in a specifically exposed situation. It may seem that the most important thing for the Government is to move the vulnerable children into public institutions. In their comments, the right makes a big point that it is the quality of the offer to determine, not who is offering it. How will the Right ensure that children who are in a vulnerable situation and need care in a child welfare institution are provided with this care regardless of whether there is a State, non-profit or commercial provider that has the best offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e538	It is short and good to equate these offers. It is a matter of creating the best possible channel between those who are responsible for the children in the municipalities, those who sit in municipal child protection and meet the children, and over to the offer – that channel must be much better. There has been a proposal from the Right for an offer portal, in line with what is available in Denmark. We think it is a drivingly good proposal, which is just about making offers available, which is about making knowledge available. Today, we see that there will be a conflict between Buffetat, who will make offers on behalf of the state, and those who are closest to the child, who actually see what the need is. You get a discussion about economics, about location, at all, an unfortunate mix of considerations, which has also created a very unworthy framework for some of the places we've seen. As far as possible, floating between offers and what is needed is our answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e543	The right in its article is occupied by the poor. The centre party has noticed that the opposition strongly disagrees with the view of the importance of cash support, especially for families with low income. Both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe it's okay not to price the child's rights. However, in the case of cash support, an overall opposition distances from the reduction in cash support resulting from the lack of price compensation. In its alternative budgets, the Christian People's Party proposes an increase of 168 million. kr, Advance Party 45 mill. kr and left only 13 mill. kr. The right joins the criticism of the government parties, but for me it has been difficult to see the Right increase in cash support. Therefore, my question to the Right becomes the following: How much does the Right propose to increase the cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e548	If there's someone who's been trying to keep an eye on the cash support, it's actually the Center Party, who's gone, I kept saying, all the ideals and the guard and reason for taking care of something that really matters to sparsely populated areas, places where the cash support was most popular. Then we could have happily added the cash support into a wide range of regulatory measures. We think it has been more important to keep a focus on poverty. I don't think the Senterparte has much to do with that either. It has been more important for us to ensure that we increase the level of child protection grants, to increase the level of grants for youth actions in larger urban communities, quotas for homes with reduced resources, etc. – rather than spending money on more general, broad measures, such as cash support. But it's clear, the cash support should be increased over time, and we'll probably also be on it gradually, even if we don't have room for that this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e553	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e556	Norway is designated as one of the world’s best countries to live in. This gives us a unique starting point for ensuring that all children in Norway can grow up well and safely. It is necessary to ensure that children and young people have equal opportunities and that children’s rights are respected. To use SV's word: different children, equal opportunities. The nursery arrangement that the whole Stortinget was behind after a Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party and the SV are historic. The government and not least Kristin Halvorsen went to the elections on full kindergarten, max. price and legal right to kindergarten. This government is now implementing the welfare reform of our time. Since 2003, 57,000 children have been placed in kindergarten, and this is a historic activity in kindergarten. SV believes that kindergartens are good for children. A kindergarten with an organized educational, social, linguistic and physical stimulating environment ensures good offers for children. We are also pleased that the Government is betting in parallel on child care coverage and the content and quality of kindergartens. Work on the follow-up to the recruitment strategy for the kindergarten sector 2007–2011 and the competence strategy for the kindergarten sector 2007–2010 is very important. Children who go to kindergarten score higher in more areas than children who are not in kindergarten. Good language development and social competence are qualities that provide a good starting point for further learning and not least integration. The maximum price and full child care coverage are a prerequisite for children’s families to have a real freedom in the choice of care solutions for their child. Cash support has led to a development in the number of children who need a nursery offer, because parents cannot afford to say no to cash support. Kindergarten as a preventive child protection measure has fallen dramatically, because the free space is no longer attractive, because it means loss of cash support. We also know that there are percentages of families with a minority background who use cash support. Language is important for integration, and children who are in kindergarten have better language development than children who are not in kindergarten. These are the unfortunate consequences of the cash support, alongside the fact that it has been a brake pad for equality between women and men. SV therefore believes that the cash support must be phased out during the next downtime period. Full child care coverage has been a struggle for the women's movement and the left side of Norwegian policy for over 30 years. The fact that we are about to reach the goal is a great victory for children and their parents. Full child care coverage also allows both parents to provide care and to be active. It is important for equality between women and men, alongside the fact that this government also performs by extending the paper issue by four weeks. This gives children more time with both parents and is an important welfare asset in our family policy. Equality and organized family policies are good for both children and adults, and we see that in same-sex families there are fewer divorces, which are also important for children. At the end of my post, I will focus on those children who have major challenges in our society. Unfortunately, children in need of child protection measures, children in need of care failure, abuse and violence are often ignored — and measures are taken too late. I believe that we need to strengthen competence through education, so that everyone who works with children is more competent to see and discover and help children who have difficulties. Some of the weakest children in our society, who have the biggest challenges, are lone minor asylum seekers. It is a particularly vulnerable group that comes to Norway without caregivers. SV is very pleased that child protection is now responsible for them under 15 years of age and will stress the importance of the responsibility of the lone minor asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age for the protection of children as soon as practicable. We are very pleased with the measures and reinforcements that have been made in this budget for this group around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e576	When we were dealing with the large kindergarten agreement, SV was very concerned with sibling moderation and income-rated parental payment – so concerned about it that we actually got a prescription for treatment in the Stortinget for the first time in history. Now it turns out that there are very many municipalities that have not introduced income graded parental payment or sibling moderation. Why has SV not been clearer and more on the track in this respect? Have they already forgotten that they worked so much on this? Did they forget it as soon as they got inside the government doors?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e583	I was concerned to some extent with this in my reply to the representative of the Progress Party. Because when we made a settlement in Stortinget, it depended on the municipalities maintaining nominally what they had used in kindergarten from before. It was also such that no one should come out worse: Graded rates and spaces should be maintained. The municipalities that have not done so, I do not believe that they are doing what was the starting point for the conciliation. So it turns out that a lot of municipalities have free places, and over 80 pst. has graduated rates as well. However, I believe that it is absolutely necessary for municipalities to do their job in this area, because it is an important measure for families with children with less and poor income.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e590	We have recently seen a very large increase in emergency positions in child protection. It's an increase of 20 pst. And actually it's all the way up to 31 pst. the last time. We know there's a lot of explanations about this. Unfortunately, we have a child's protection that gives us a little too many explanations. We also see that there is free capacity in private child protection. And we know that some of the reason is that it goes out too long before you put someone in an institution or reinforced foster home. Does not the representative Hansen think it should be more important to use the capacity that it says, than that we expose children to the pain that does not involve finding a place? Does not the representative Hansen think that we owe them the use of the resources that we actually have?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e599	I fully agree with the representative from the Right that there has been a worrying development in child protection that we must look at. More and more children need child protection measures, there are several complex problems, and it is difficult to find appropriate measures for all children. One of the things I said in my post, and that was basically my starting point, was that we have to do a job for all the professionals working with children. It is very important that we see and detect children early. I also believe that we may need to evaluate both the laws, regulations and everything, so that we get equal treatment, and that those children around this country who need child protection measures, who are going to be in a foster home, should not sit for one year and wait for it. What is important is that children have adapted measures. And it's not certain that the institution that's close by is the best offer. That's also important to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e609	The Christian People's Party is proposing the addition of income-graded bets to kindergartens to give an extra handshake to those with the lowest income, but I'm recording that SV does not support this. This applies to the single minor asylum seekers over the age of 15. Can the representative May Hansen say anything about when they're transferred to Child Protection? It seems like it's all blue based on the signals that the government has sent. So I have a question of equal pay. I know the representative May Hansen and SV who are passionately concerned about equality. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised that the government party will not be on a proposal asking the Government to present a compulsory plan for equal pay and to contribute to measures for women-dominated education groups in the public sector in line with the recommendations of the Equal pay Commission. Or does SV want to support these proposals when we're going to vote over them in the hall today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e618	There has been a reduction in an equal pay commission. The various proposals that have been consulted, and it is clear that we should look at this from the SV's point of view. It's very important. We haven't had an equal pay trend in Norway in 25 years. We have a sex-shared labour market. The most important thing we can do to get equal pay on the track is to remove the cash support, so that women do not work more part-time than men. It is also important to get women out of work on the same footing as men. This, and that men also come home and provide care, is the most important thing we can do for women's career. As far as minor asylum seekers are concerned, we say in our note, and so does the Government, that this should be in place as soon as practicable. And we work that all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e627	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e630	The centre party will spend most of its time focusing on family policies in general and kindergartens in particular. The babysitting of the times is approaching the interview. We believe that the goal of full child care will be a reality by August next year when all children who have reached the age of one year before the end of the same month are legally admitted to the nursery. With this budget, we have arranged for 265,000 children to have a kindergarten offer by the end of 2009. The children's hail lift is approaching 25 billion kroner, and it will cost more in the years to come as we reach the maximum price from 2009 until the target of a reduction in the maximum price stage 2 is reached. The centre party believes this is the right priority. Recently, several studies have been presented that show how important a qualitatively good kindergarten offer is for reading and math understanding and, not least, social skills. Therefore, it is alarming that the left will go the opposite way and increase the maximum price. This will particularly affect those groups which have weak economies and which are most in need of stable, stimulating childcare services. Since this government took over, the price of a nursery place has been really reduced by 855 kroner per person. month, or 27 pst. In order to ensure adequate and predictable funding for kindergartens, we have chosen to postpone the inclusion of the earmarked state grants in the municipalities’ 2011 Framework Grant. In the introduction of a new funding system, the Centre will focus on the economic non-discrimination of municipal and non-municipal kindergartens. There shall be the same good quality of the offer regardless of who owns the nursery, in the same way as employees must be guaranteed equal conditions for equal work. In parallel with this adventurous expansion of kindergartens, the quality of the offer has received increasing attention. A Quality and Content Scoreboard will be promoted during 2009. Furthermore, a new framework for the content and tasks of kindergarten has helped to improve quality. In addition, the Government has stepped up its efforts to develop skills and recruit children’s homes. With increased appropriations in 2009, there will be 150 new places to study for pre-school teachers, 150 places to study post-secondary education in kindergarten education in part-time for people with other educational education, as well as an extension of the offer of pre-school work-related education aimed at, among others. assistants. In the last three years, over 60 million have been used. kr annually for measures of competence and recruitment in the kindergarten sector. The centre party wants to focus on family and parents in the next year's budget. We are pleased that family protection is now being strengthened, so that even more people can be helped in difficult situations. Family protection has a central role to play in preventing a break in life, but it is so important to achieve good cooperation where parents choose to separate. Family protection will be added 10 million in 2009. The total appropriation will then amount to 315 million. kr. Family protection also plays an important role in relation to ethnic minorities, gay families and children exposed to violence. In the budget, we have chosen to put in place various measures to strengthen the rights and conditions of parents. The Soria Moria declaration is fulfilled by the extension of the feather quota by four weeks. As a result, fathers will be entitled to 10 weeks of parental leave from July 2009. The total parental leave is extended by two weeks as a result. It's high time we gave fathers better opportunities to spend more time with their children. At the same time, extended fetal leave could make it easier for mothers to return to work earlier. Since the one-off grant at birth and adoption has remained still since 2003, we are now proposing to increase this aid to NOK 35 263. This is an act we are doing to strengthen the economic situation of young children's parents. Parents are the most important caregivers in children’s lives, but sometimes parents do not extend to them, and society needs to set up to ensure these children’s and young people’s safe growing-up conditions. The centre will highlight in particular the importance of research on different methods, so that we are becoming more and more confident in tailoring individual arrangements for each individual child and youth. Early efforts at home with care failure are essential to succeed in getting these children and young people on a positive track and thus a lastingly good growth situation and development. Finally, I would therefore like to express my satisfaction that the Government will strengthen cooperation between child protection and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e658	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e661	The centre party has traditionally been very concerned that one should have a shortage in the nursery sector. We know that a lot of private kindergartens have worn out, and that more people have gone bankrupt. If one should be able to achieve the goal of full child care coverage – based on the latest statistics of the State Council, there are well 2,500 children who have applied for the time they themselves have seen as an application criterion, waiting in place – how will the Centre contribute to the non-discrimination of municipal and private kindergartens? For if nothing else is done, more than one person will go doll, and it will take longer before one reaches the goal of full child care coverage. Does the Center Party have any gold cards in their sleeves that they can bring with them that the Government has not brought, to prevent that from happening? When it comes to cash support, it will take even longer to reach the goal of full needs coverage, plus that many people who want a different form of care, those who want to keep and use the cash support, will be forced to go to a different option than they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e668	It was not this government that introduced the funding model for kindergartens. In my opinion, it is a financing model that has expired. I can't see that flaking by offering a minimum requirement of 86, 87 or 88 pst. will resolve that situation. In fact, one with and stress is that it is the minimum funding to be available and not the background to the entire funding scheme, namely that the starting point is that the kindergartens should be financed in relation to costs. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to provide. Otherwise, in the case of cash support, we have not said that we are going to go away from cash support. There will be a big discussion at the national meetings of the individual parties of spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e675	This line change might be a little bit of a prayer to get the Center Party back to the center. What I'm wondering about the attitude of the Center Party is: how does it feel to be on the ideological course of Regeringa, both against private kindergartens and against private children's protection institutions, when you stand for the tradition that the Central Party, in spite of everything, stands for volunteering, in relation to the whole structure of what kindergartens and child-rescue institutions have been? How is it for the Central Party to be involved in such an ideological process towards everything they've previously stood for? Wouldn't it have been better to come back to the center and the other center parts? Wouldn't the Center Party feel more at home there?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e684	I don't entirely accept the premise that Trine Skei Grande is making here, that it's a crazy drive towards private kindergartens and private child-rescue institutions. It is not that this government does not appreciate the fact that more than half of the kindergartens are private. We actually need them. If it hadn't been for the private kindergartens, we wouldn't have had the situation that we're almost in the goal of full kindergarten coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e689	A small follow-up on private kindergartens: In what the Government has proposed, to include funding in the framework of municipalities, there is no requirement for municipalities to treat municipal and private kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner. Now, when we see that a lot of people have stopped building private kindergartens because they feel insecure when it comes to the form of funding, will the Center Party be helping to change what the Government has presented? It creates a great deal of security for many private kindergartens today and will lead to a lot of people not willing to bet on it. I am not reassured that the municipalities will be fully responsible, without the clear criteria laid down by the Government. We would rather not have included funding in the framework until we achieve an equality. It's too early to put her into the framework now, if at all, that's the right way to fund kindergartens in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e694	What is clearly established in the proposal made by the Government is that there should be a framework funding for kindergartens. But when it's said, there's a lot of opportunities to take the lead, so that we ensure an economically equivalent treatment. There we in the Center Party have ambitions to succeed and have a real treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e700	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e703	Today Norway lost one of its great children's book writers, Anne-Cath. Vestly. I had actually thought that there could be something you should mention in the cultural debate, but I really want to mention it in the debate in this field. Because she told us that watchmasters could be ladies, that fathers could be at home with children, that children could live in a town and have a good time, and that children were actually in the stomach of their mother before they were born. What she did for equality is actually a lot more than what we're going to do with this budget, no matter how we've twisted and turned on it. Fighting for equality is about some structural things, but it's also a lot about what we do up in our heads to each other, and there Anne-Cath did. Vestly a great job. We can't exactly say if what the government has done in its reign in relation to the equality field. We in the Left are very disappointed that you do not point forward, nor do you point to a seaworthy right of use for fathers and see that it is an important step forward. Now it might not be so important to raise the women's rights in relation to this. It is the rights of fathers towards children that have to be lifted. The government has lifted the kindergartens as one of the big fields they want to bet on. Had they had ambitions similar to what they've accomplished, and where a lot has been good, they might have been able to win there. The problem for the government now is that ideology is in the way of the solution in a lot of areas. The difference between public and private causes us to see that fewer and fewer private buildings are being built away because funding is uncertain. Equality is also becoming more important than quality. The left has put a lot more into recruiting highly qualified staff in kindergartens and in the quality of kindergartens. Media surveys today suggest that quality is no longer a concern, but that there are enough adults in kindergarten to keep children safe. Then we started moving in the wrong direction. Child protection is another field where ideology stands in the way of the good solutions. I'm curious if the skills we have in a lot of areas are capable of surviving this government. I hope so. But there is nothing in the foundation of child protection management that means that we are able to hold on to that competence until we are replaced by government. Another area where the Left has been involved in the field of child protection is after-sales protection for those over 18 years of age. I think it is bad that the Government has not entered into any more binding agreements for post-closure protection. Another point that I would like to mention from the alternative budget of the Left is adoption. It is one of the most beautiful things I can imagine when a family takes responsibility for a child who was not originally theirs. That's why we in the Left want to increase adoption support to 1 G. It is very good that the Council of State has put down a sample in this area, because here we need to devise a new policy to support those who do. But I'm very disappointed that you don't want to increase the financial support for parents who take on this responsibility. Another area in which the Government has been committed is sexual abuse. The fact that you fight so much in that area, but yet you are not willing to commit in terms of the only center we have, which actually helps men who have been exposed to this, I cannot understand. This is an important centre of expertise, and I believe that the Government could at least help give them the status it is to be a national centre of competence in this area. Finally, I think it's funny that we've been able to provide a life-cycle study that shows that there is one group in our society that actually has health development, income development, housing conditions and other things that are much worse than other groups – they're single. For some reason, the development of this group is not important to the Government. I had hoped that with a new government council, we could get a new tone in this area, because there are not too many other groups that could have submitted such a living conditions survey without any political impact afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e725	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e728	The Committee, including the Left, shares the Government's objectives of full childcare coverage, high quality and low price to ensure that all children are entitled to good and accessible kindergartens. We can expect that with the general uncertainty associated with the financial crisis, some of which also lose their jobs, more families of children will also mark the change in income and economic situation. In its alternative budget, the Left proposes inter alia: to increase the payment of residence in kindergartens. Would it not affect those families of children who have already had the worst advice? And what will the Left do in its alternative scheme to compensate for increased prices in the kindergarten to make sure that no children are hit and not allowed to go to kindergarten because of excessive prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e735	I am very pleased that the Workers' Party has chosen to ask this question, because then I am getting a mistake in a previous line change with a employee party representative. Last year, the government did the same thing we do now. In 2007, the government adjusted its prices. That's what we're doing now. We do not increase the payment with this – we adjust the price of the payment. We don't think that's going to lead to so much change. We don't think it'll be a much bigger disaster now than the Workers' Party did last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e742	The centre batch has noticed that the opposition batches are very fragmented in view of the length of the parental leave and of the papiermission in particular. The Progress Party does not wish to extend the parental leave now, nor does it want to designate the extension to Dad. Christian People's Party on the other hand wants four new weeks reserved for father, from July 2009. On the right, the Government supports the extension of the parental leave by two new weeks from July 2009 but does not want to extend the father’s part by two weeks of that part of the parents can now freely divide. The left will extend the parental leave by two new weeks from January 2009 and will be based on the father’s independent right to benefit, from July 2009. But I can't see that the Left neither supports nor takes away from the Government's proposal to designate two extra weeks as the father of the total parental leave. Does the Left not see that this can contribute to the faster strengthening of the role of father as a caregiver, and therefore also to gender equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e753	Before the representative Trine Skei Grande receives a reply, the President will recall the proposals that may have to be made in the course of the debate. The President requests that the representative do so in his reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e756	Yes, I would like to take the opportunity to promote the Left's proposal. As far as the parental leave is concerned, the left has always been in front here. We've been in this house since the morning. What has been left's priority in this budget is to give fathers maritime access rights. As I said in my post, for the left, it's important that there's actually no women's rights in relation to this that you now need to strengthen. It's my father's rights that need to be strengthened. That's why we've prioritised seafaring revenue rights. We're always going to be in front of this, and I think maybe we're the opposition party that's closest to the government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e763	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has drawn up the proposals she referred to. No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e768	I must say that I am surprised at the comments of the Right, which blame the timing of family violence and mental illness. Here you should take a course in equal opportunities, among other things. Left here in place and by the Christian People's Party, because the Christian People's Party comes with a very proper presentation when it says that equality has contributed to a positive social development. So we know that in families where you share your work tasks, it's a more stable relationship. If we're dedicated to strengthening the family, it's about equality in our time. And we see – and the representative of the Progress Party should notice – that families who share maternity leave also have more children. So we, who are busy with family values, are concerned that we are now getting a longer spring quota. It alerts us in this budget to 10 weeks, and in the big message that we just provided, to 14 weeks, plus that we want to do something with the two weeks after birth. It means too many families, and that means we're going to be one of the most equal countries in the world. We're going to be even more equidistant. That's why Norwegian men are among the world's most domestic workers, who spend most of their time with their children. That's a proper development. I'm a little surprised that the Right Party, which is traditionally a quite modern party, is now responsible for most of the abominations of society. It's immature! I am also concerned about strengthening the role of family protection. Now, when we're going to discuss the Children's Act in Stortinget for spring, I'm absolutely convinced that family protection is the answer to many of the challenges we have. We see that an increasing number of children are in families with major conflicts after a divorce. That is why it is right that we in this budget strengthen family protection. I also notice that the representative from the Right calls the State Child Protection a fear-based power structure. The husband of the characteristics of the child protection reform for his or her own government is to be looked for a long time. On the other hand, I agree with the representative Karin S. Woldseth, who points to the need to strengthen municipal child protection. I think when we talk about increased emergency positions, it's a lot about the capacity of municipal child protection. That's why I'm concerned that we can do a job around this in the time to come. We have tabled a number of legislative changes to be addressed, and there will also be some economic consequences in terms of strengthening municipal child protection. There has never been a proposal from a government that involves such strong legislative provisions on the right to follow-up protection. Because now we flip the principle and say that post-protection should be normal. Reasons shall be given if there is no provision for back-up protection. We also want a cooperation agreement with KS. We are increasingly seeing cooperation with the municipality and the state as a challenge. We have also been committed to strengthening the municipal competence programme in this budget. As for the transition to foster homes, our government, like the previous government, has been concerned with strengthening the role of foster homes. But I probably didn't come up with as dramatic and bastful formulations at this point as my predecessor Laila Bavøy did. She said that youth should be no longer in behavioural institutions than six months. I have never said the same and I therefore agree more with the representative Thommessen. But in terms of whether we do this, not according to the best needs of a child, but only based on economic considerations, I would like to remind you that this government has increased the funding for the state child protection by NOK 1 billion. It provides a basis for quality. In addition, the previous government said that the cost growth of child protection was reduced by contributing to a gradual transition from the use of expensive institutional measures to the use of effective family and community-based measures. So these were the wordings of the previous government. I believe that with the measures we have taken now in the protection of state children, we place greater emphasis on quality, because we have better funding than the previous government provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e790	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e793	In my post I told about the youth who, because of lack of action, has been placed a whole month at a hotel in Oslo, without the supervision of public child protection. The guy's lawyer pays him a day's money, so he has something to live for. Does the Council of State feel that it is better to place a youth in a hotel rather than using private child-rescue institutions that have both a good offer and a place?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e798	This government focuses on good cooperation, both with private and public institutions. As far as this case is concerned in Oslo, it is not part of the state child protection. The municipality of Oslo is responsible for the fact that this boy is in a hotel, and is therefore not part of state policy. I am concerned that we have good offers, through, among other things. MultifunC, which might have been of interest to many of the kids who have heavy behavioral problems. I also notice that some children are being sent to other parts of the country. I don't think that's the best thing about youth with big behavioral problems. But this situation is the Oslo Municipality, where the Progress Party is in charge. Of course, we want to add to a state child protection policy in cooperation with Oslo, but this is not a result of state policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e803	In Haugesund, we have just had a bad example of brutal violence and abuse among young people, where violence has been perpetrated by children who have run away from a child protection institution. We have also seen cases in the past where child protection institutions have had quite major problems with violence. A few questions have been raised a few times as to whether there is no need for a slightly stronger provision for child-rescue institutions on how to deal with that issue. We have proposed this. As far as we understand, and from what we can read from the budget proposal, the government is working on reviewing the rules. But I don't have the impression that you're doing this with a view to giving some more stringent remedies, that is, better tools for child protection institutions to deal with the issue. I also asked myself how this work was based. Could the Council of States tell us when these rules come?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e810	In cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, we are now going through proposals on alternatives for children in prison. We will look at many different measures that can provide a better offer for individuals. What we're sure about is that we don't want to go back to the old prisons, where the kids with the biggest behavioral problems were grouped together in big units. We've seen that in many cases have enhanced negative behavior. But I would like to remind you that child protection has extensive use of coercive paragraphs. With regard to the current situation that we have seen in Haugesund, these young people have been placed without the possibility of a visit. So I want to remind you that we have relatively strong coercive paragraphs in today's child protection too. But the important thing is to build an offer that can give these kids a way out. Then is not lock and always hit the right tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e815	A year ago, non-profit organisations operating in the field of child protection met with the Ministry of Supply. They were relatively uplifted after the meeting, because the ministry gave some positive signals, but they don't feel that the practice has been as the signals could indicate. Among other things, there shall be negotiations, dialogue, negotiation, and no matrix shall be created, but one shall demand the quality and budget of the operation, and the pay and working conditions shall be no worse than the current tariff agreements. The Council of State will stop and see what the situation is now, when it comes to negotiating agreements with Bufetat, and one experiences that some of the criteria that a suspected person should be on the basis of, in practice, do not prove to be justified, for example. with regard to the child’s principle of subsidiarity? Will the Council of State ensure that new grips are taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e820	We have now had a competition only for the ideal institutions. It's because we don't see, like the representative from the left, that these are two sides of the same thing. We believe that they play a very special role, and are all the closer to the Christian People's Party on these issues. The principle of subsidiarity has been important. In the West, among other things, we have seen that there have been a number of drug institutions. Therefore, it has been important to build up this kind of offer in other parts of the country too, precisely in order to provide young people with stronger opportunities in their local settings. We have also seen a shortage of institutions, including: in the North Region. That's why we wanted to build more institutions of that kind in these areas as well. We are now in the process of dealing with these matters. Some have been granted an extension of the right to apply and will have a deadline of 1 p.m. 14 tomorrow. It is not right for me to give some signals as to which institutions will continue, and which institutions will not continue. We've delegated that to the department. But it's clear that regardless of whether we have our own round, we can't guarantee that all institutions will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e827	The State Council administers a grant scheme for the voluntary organisations of children and young people. There is a happy increase, which is also supported by the Left, but only half of the legislation has been adopted at the same time. This leads to a huge fluctuation in the grant to the voluntary organisations. As a result, the Norwegian Federation of Scouts loses more than DKK 600 000, Norske 4H loses DKK 300 000, KFUK Scouts lose DKK 300 000, and Youth Against Narcotics loses 27.7 pst. of its grant, while the adult-run organisations may have an increase of up to 192,87 pst. Why does the Council of State choose, instead of implementing a system as a whole, to let organisations take the burden of such a huge turn in the grant? I guess the Council of State also knows how difficult it is to run a voluntary Children's and Youth's organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e834	We have stressed the gradual implementation of this legislation in order to provide some predictability for organisations. That is why we have implemented these changes in close cooperation with the Norwegian Children’s and Youth Council, and I am pleased with the way this has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e839	First just a brief comment on this with Oslo. State councils should probably contact the Children's Guard in the rest of the country, because the case in Oslo is not an isolated case. Those kids don't live in hotels. They don't live anywhere. But that's not what I was going to ask the Council of State for. She referred to equality in the country, that we are the most equal country in the world, and that the fathers in Norway spend most of their time with their children – and I want to add: while they live with them. The problem is that you still have normal association when you have not entered into private association agreements. I wonder, can the Council of State think of equality here, too, and give care to both mother and father?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e846	Now I haven't gone into matters in other countries about getting together with my dad after a divorce. However, I have recently seen that there has been a major trend in Norway towards more contact with my father even after divorce. The basis for association is in the form of an equal parenthood. Then it is also easier to get an agreement with both mother and father after a possible divorce. We now focus on increasing the norm for what's called normal association, to ten days a month. That means a lot, because initially it's on average eight. We've seen that this norm works as a minimum standard, among other things. in the Court of Law. On the other hand, we will not go for a divided residence as a general rule. There are very few hearing bodies that have voted in favour of this proposal. In the Barnelov Committee, only the representative of the Association 2 Parents voted in favour of this proposal. That's why we're not going to go in for this. Many people have good experience sharing a place of residence. That's good. But we don't think it's right to impose this as a general rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e856	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e859	This is the last ordinary state budget I agree to deal with. After the next big shot, I'm going out of the Storting, about while I'm reaching the retirement age of the population, and I'm going to represent the second high that has full-earning opportunities, that is. that the retirement pension decisions of the population from 1967 are fully applicable only 40 years later. This makes me reflect on politics and political processes. One important lesson is: Realising political goals takes time. It requires stubbornness, work and not a small portion of revolutionary patience. In my ca. Fifty years of political work is focused on gender equality, and still is. that women have the brunt of their work at home that women are under-represented in politics, administration and business that women have consistently lower wages than men And it's still like this. women's turn and shift work confer different rights on women to take the brunt of the care work And after 50 years, we still need an equal pay commission and a human panel. This despite – we have achieved a lot. A real breakthrough has come in this process of mass destruction. We are in the process of achieving full child care coverage – the introduction of the right to kindergarten for all those who want it. Many people have expressed such a goal, but that's only now. It took many years to convince traditional men and women of that children benefit greatly from going to kindergarten that participation in the labour market will improve the quality of life for women that building kindergartens will be socially viable Today, our economy depends on women's participation, but it requires a working life and welfare services that are organised for it. Furthermore, it assumes that men and women are more equal both at home and outside. The participation of fathers in child care is essential and the extension of parental leave and the parental quota is a necessary step. The proposal of the Equal pay Commission for one third must be an objective to reach. But the attitude towards an old-fashioned division of labour is still strong. And as I see it, the introduction of the cash support was a step backwards. The question of cash support was initially a question of value and at the same time, and in practice, an incentive for women to return to home, an incentive that seems to be out of the question. In the past, kindergarten was a need-tested place. Now there seems to be a tendency that those who had previously been given nursery place on social criteria are those who are allowed to accept the nursery for receiving cash support. If the cash support is to be continued, one must look at the device it has. With the statutory right to kindergarten, the red-green government has delivered. But in other areas too, the red-green government has made a difference. With common marriage law, the red-green government has won an important prize fight. It was an important step in giving up to the many homosexuals who have experienced harassment and discrimination over the years. The fight against discrimination is legally won. However, there is still a lack of understanding and attitudes that lead to discrimination in practice. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e912	The President showed great goodwill – since it is the representative's last budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e915	Thank you for that, President! I really appreciated that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e920	Family is one of our most important social institutions, perhaps the most important one with regard to the different ways we live in families – with few or many, with close or distant relationships, with or without children. And very many families have children. Not least if we take with us all those who are grandparents, aunts or uncles or in other ways very closely involved in children's lives, it's extremely important. It may sometimes be worth reflecting that many arrangements for children that we see today as very important and necessary for family policy, have initially had great resistance and have been thought to be the opposite of family friendly, whether they are kindergartens, or there is papyrus mission, which we are discussing here today. But I believe, as the representative Hildeng, that today we have to state that perhaps the greatest breakthrough for family policy, especially for families with children, is the kindergarten revolution that we are about to end. I want to go so far as to say that one today cannot have a good family policy without facilitating a good childcare provision. What have we experienced? Yes, in the year I was born, in 1971, I had 3 pst. by Norwegian children an offer in kindergartens. No has approx. 96 pst. by children starting school, gone to kindergarten. In the last five years, 66 000 new places have been established. The price has fallen sharply. We've had a price reduction in private kindergartens of almost 50 pst. – something lower in municipal kindergartens – which means that today the vast majority of families see themselves able to benefit from the provision of a nursery place, when it is also there. We have also seen that the strong price reduction and expansion have meant that in recent years it has been possible to establish both many new municipal and many private kindergartens. During the expansion period, we have seen that there have been clearly most private places. We have also received a guaranteed funding, both on development and on operations, through the kindergarten agreement, which ensures the development of kindergartens throughout the country and good opportunities for running kindergartens. We have also made significant improvements in quality during that period. We have significantly increased the number of study places – it is in the budget for next year – we have created a new framework plan, and in other ways we have focused on quality. But at the same time, there's no doubt that after five years with a gigantic quantity pledge, which we end up in next year's budget and take the last step towards, we are now entering a period of five years when the quality and content of the nursery are to be at the height. That is what we do, for example. through an increase of over 400 places of study next year. We are continuing the funding to ensure further development, and we are also looking down on prices next year. But there's also a number of important quality concepts that we're going to do in the years to come. In connection with it, it's perhaps the most surprising thing for me here to right the Right's view of the role of kindergartens in knowledge and learning. In many contexts, it is such that the Right likes to present itself as a knowledge party within school policy. But when it comes to kindergartens, it may seem quite the opposite; as if learning and knowledge are not important there. What happens in the summer when the child reaches the age of five or six, making that priority so different? I think we should look at it in a completely different way. Whether it is for kindergarten children, or it is for schoolchildren, care and knowledge are two sides of the same matter and are related. Children who go to kindergarten must have both care and learning. There is no contradiction – on the contrary. Of course, we should have the same idea in the school; the school should be for knowledge, but children should also feel safe and cared for. Then a better learner, and children who learn will also be safer and more comfortable – this is the way to go. We now know very much about the importance of quality provision for children's development and learning. That's why we have to continue that development over the next few years. I conclude by saying that next year's budget brings to an end the process of kindergarten and introduces a legal right, continues to lower the price, and that also means a quality effort on the content of the important childcare provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e933	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e936	The phasing-in of non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens has stopped. We have still not seen anything about maximum price 2, and the goal of full child care coverage was heard when we dealt with the budget last year, probably to be met in January 2009. Now it has been moved to August 2009. Is it true that the Council of State does not really care so much about kindergarten policy, and about the conciliation that has been reached? And is it that you are now going to have compulsory kindergarten, which we heard so much about earlier today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e943	If we look around Norway, I don't think exactly the image is that it's still when it's for kindergarten. One has to remember that a few years ago there were long queues and waiting lists, and frustration in parents who had to look for a day’s mother, take leave, or sew solutions with grandparents – that was quite common. Today, we have provided figures that show that the municipalities of Norway are likely to fulfil the statutory rights to kindergarten next year. The big cities that have worn out say themselves that they will probably come to an end. The maximum price is before the range. A Norwegian family that has children in kindergarten has experienced a price decrease of NOK 10 000 to NOK 20 000 in the last few years, and we will continue to lower the maximum price, at NOK 1750. We have the same evolution when it comes to quality. Both my and others in the government's interest are the reason why we can end the kindergarten revolution that we now have been working with for many decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e950	The private kindergartens feel quite stressed in many areas. An important theme that has been promoted is this so-called 85 pst., the proportion of grants that private kindergartens receive. Since the introduction of a maximum price, a framework has been set for the availability of income for private kindergartens. The old reason why you could have a difference was that the private kindergartens were often a little bit more expensive. Now it's a thank you, and I ask the Council of State: what's really the reason that children in a private nursery should only have 85 pst., while children in a public nursery have a claim of 100 pst.? Is it true that private children, to say the least, are cheaper than public children and that they need less? Or are they going to feel a little bit worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e957	The fact is that through the kindergarten agreement, the financing of private kindergartens in Norway has improved. There was no guaranteed minimum support for private kindergartens before. Then has an established system of at least 85 pst. State aid, up to 100 p.p., for private kindergartens, which have ensured further development. If you look at the last few years, the number of new private kindergartens has exceeded the number of municipalities. There can be no doubt that the establishment of new private kindergartens over the last few years has at least been economically justified. It would not have been possible to get to that rate of expansion without it having been money to spend on it, and possibly for private kindergartens to come on the track. That's also why all over Norway, there are good private kindergartens that drive, and that make it go around. Then we have a big challenge, and that's the different pay and working conditions between public and private. That's what I'm extremely busy about, so I've started an investigation of it, and we have to follow it up even better in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e964	There's no doubt that very many private kindergartens are struggling around, and so are those who have gone bankrupt because they don't have the same framework conditions. What surprises me is that this government has not brought a single extra crown to get more equal treatment between municipal and private kindergartens – it will be up to municipal discretion. When it comes to the number of children who don't have children's beds, the council has said that there are about 2,500 in the next nursery years who are waiting and wanting a nursery place, which doesn't get it. In addition, all of those born after 1 September, who are not even allowed to search and are thus not registered. Number of children without kindergarten may not know how many councillors. If there is no recourse to non-discrimination between municipal and private kindergartens, even more people may go bankrupt and it takes longer to reach full needs coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e972	The starting point here is completely wrong. Most of the places that have been established in the last few years have been built by private individuals. I don't think it would have happened if the investment incentive and other transfers were not such that it was possible to build and operate kindergartens. It's quite natural now, when we're in the query, that much of the last thing has to be taken by the municipalities. It is quite common for the public to take the last call in a reform where there is a greater risk of establishing kindergartens. Then let me have the opportunity to get hold of it with closures. When we look at numbers this year, there is no special increase or trend in the number of closures compared to what it has been for quite normal reasons in recent years. Then there are challenges, and it's particularly related to differences in pay and working conditions and that some older parents' kindergartens are struggling. That's what we're busy about, and that's why we're working on figuring out the cost differences, so we can do more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e981	To something quite different: there is so much doubt that very small children, i.e. the youngest children, have a good idea of staying longer in kindergarten than their parents are at work. The study referred to by both the Workers’ Party and the SV in their articles on children’s language development is based on a survey conducted among 185 children. Then I wonder: will the Council of State do something to actually give us a study of how these children are doing now, and that we might follow them up a little bit, to see if they are developing in line with children who are not in kindergarten, but where you choose cash support for the first two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e988	The answer to the question is yes. In fact, it is important to get more research around the smallest children in kindergarten when it comes to learning, security and, for example, learning effects. mental health, but also, of course, given the type of childcare provision that provides the best care and development for young children. I strongly reject the fact that today we do not have a knowledge base to build on when it comes to kindergarten children, both the oldest and the youngest. We have a significant international basis, we have a Nordic basis, and we also have the investigation that was referred to here, the mother and the child investigation, where about 20,000 parents – if I don't think wrong on the move – got a number of questions when it comes to language development. However, it is of course always important to have research. Nevertheless, the research needs of the smallest children in kindergarten are greater than those of the slightly older ones, where we have a greater knowledge base.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e995	I want to pick up the thread from where I was last, namely this non-discrimination of 85 pst. It's true that it's improved, but the circumstances are completely different. Today, there is a solid framework for what income can be expected to have as a private actor. In addition, the fact that you reach the goal of full coverage comes. That makes it a pretty big pressure on the number of places, and where the places are going. In addition to this, the Government has made a legislative proposal which, of course, places the new – i.e. the private kindergartens that come after 2011 – in a very uncertain situation. The fact that many private kindergartens have been built so far is not so strange, because there has been a good framework for the construction of kindergartens. Those who have made money in kindergartens are the ones who have built them. Now we have to look forward to operations. I ask the question again: How can it be that in the future you should only have 85 pst. for a private child in relation to 100 pst. for a public child?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1004	I think the representative knows better than that it is 85 or 100 pst. I think he's aware that the rule that applies is that one in principle gets to cover its costs, and then one has to have at least 85 pst. for the private, up to 100 pst. The section is over 85 pst., but it varies throughout the scale. That's the situation today. Then there is no doubt that we have a particular challenge when it comes to the fact that there is generally a somewhat lower level of pay – fewer people have a pension agreement in the private sector. I am quite committed to doing something about it, because it will of course have an impact on quality, but also on the working conditions for them to add. That's why we've started an investigation to get into this material, because we have too little knowledge of it. It is absolutely necessary to follow it up more closely in the years that come, together with the fact that we get a framework-funded sector that is transferred to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1011	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1014	We often – and rightly – talk about many people falling outside our society. We know that poverty in our welfare society can often be caused by intoxication, mental illness and other basic problems, with social isolation as an unfortunate consequence. In many such families, there are young people who suffer and who bear the heaviest burdens of poverty. These kids are our special responsibility. In this context, child protection is important. It is important to say that there is a lot of good work done in both municipal and state child protection. Many people who need help get it. At the same time, we are constantly hearing stories about children and young people who, for various reasons, fall outside the facility. Young people with major behavioural problems have experienced a rollout in the system. We can't take that. We need to strengthen care and action around these young people. It is positive that in the current year the Ministry started work on clarifying the interpretation of legislation and regulations for the use of coercive measures in the field of child protection, in order to ensure that this practice is as uniform as possible. However, the starting point must always be to ensure the legal certainty of children and young people, and that enforcement must always be linked to a concrete assessment of the current situation. Over the last few years, it has become clear that there is a need to improve the protection of young people between the ages of 18 and 23 who have been under the care of child protection. The growth of post-protection measures in municipalities has been high in recent years. ==References== 85 pst. by the young people who today want to protect themselves. Young people who have been under the care of child protection are often more vulnerable and have a weaker family network than most young people. It is therefore good that the Ministry is now working on adjusting the legislation on post-closure protection, so that municipalities are obliged to justify their decision in the absence of post-closure, as underlined by the Council of State. Municipalities are encouraged to incorporate good practices early to adapt post-protection measures to individual young people who wish to do so. It is equally important that young people who first refuse follow-up should receive such assistance if the need arises at a later stage. These are good measures for back-up protection. I am also surprised that the representative Skei Grande does not see it. The responsibility of lone minor asylum seekers under 15 years of age was transferred in 2008 from the foreign authorities to the protection of children. We have seen that far more minor asylum seekers have come here to the country than previously assumed, and have noted that from a professional point of view it is important to give priority to those under 15 years of age. However, we are very concerned that good and adequate action will be taken also for them between 15 and 18 years of age, and are confident that the Government will ensure that these young people also become the responsibility of child protection as soon as this is practicable. We support the child protection policy of the Government, which aims to have good family and community prevention and adapted forerunner services, as well as different institutions for the young people and young people who need them. We agree with the Government that the appropriations for child protection purposes should as far as possible go the shortest way to assist children and young people who need it, and not to pay dividends to commercial actors. It is our opinion that predictability and long-termity can best be achieved through the use of public institutions and institutions governed by NPISHs, such as the representative of the Christian People's Party, in contrast to several opposition parties, which call for more use of private commercial operators and a system of the outsourcing of child protection services. We are pleased that the Government is betting on international work in the field of child protection. The children's, youth and family budget, Region Nord, has for a long time been in close contact with North-West Russia. Here you can refer to multi-annual, very successful cooperation with public child protection authorities in Karelia and Murmansk. This is an important part of the people-to-people cooperation in the north to which the Government has committed itself in a region with which we share the border and which has major challenges in health, social protection and general welfare. It is therefore gratifying that the Government aims to continue this important inter-people cooperation in the field of child protection. Norway has also taken over the Presidency of the Barents Region Children’s Programme from the autumn of 2008 — a work followed up by both the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Children’s and Gender Equality. Knowing that there are neglected and disabled kids, they're touching the basic instincts of most of us. It is a human right to have a safe and caring childhood. That's why it's so important that as a society we can spin good networks around kids and youth. And here we must all be on guard: kindergartens, schools, school holidays and individual people, such as neighbors, friends and family. The fight against poverty, especially against child poverty, depends on the fact that we have a well-functioning and highly qualified child protection system that is there for everyone who needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1031	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1034	The sitting government parties went to the election on a no to put Grandma out for tender. After they came to power, the eagerness to use market solutions and bids has broken previous limits. The EEA Agreement provides far more opportunities to exempt voluntary and non-profit institutions from the requirement of tenders than those used by that government. The previous government incorporated these derogations into the Norwegian procurement rules. It is of little help when the current government operates a tender practice which, to date this year, has led to the threat of closure of a number of traditional institutions operating under the non-profit system. This is true in the drugs, care and rehabilitation sectors, but it is now also true of an increasing number of child protection institutions. NRK Focus recently told the story of 17-year-old Camilla. For two years, the Children's Protection Institute was the Svalstuen at Gol in Hallingdal Camilla's home. Here she and other young people were given care in a difficult situation and learned to build good relations with the employees. That's it. That's it. That's it. Camilla felt again that security was being compromised. She was to be moved to a large, commercial child protection company 60 miles away from her hometown. Unfortunately, Camilla's story is not unique. Last week, the report said that Styve Gard and Garnestangen Jugendssenter in Hordaland had drastically and unexpectedly reduced their agreements with the Buffdirektoratet. Stiff Gard is reduced from 14 to three places, and the Garne Bar is halved. Young people residing in Hordaland are to be sent to institutions in other counties, because these institutions have made a cheaper tender. The same is true of the Church's Bymission Twilight in Sandnes. The government's policy towards non-profit institutions has already led to closures, for example: in the Health South-East area, where long-term mental health sufferers had to move out without similar offers – one entirely unsolicited, because the institution was not allowed to continue its contract. The same is now happening in other regions, where administrative decisions once again allow the government to destroy well-established measures. Overall, we are facing a drastic reduction in the number of institutions for vulnerable young people, and there is little point in the Council of State saying that the intention is to build up offers in other regions. We're talking about non-profit institutions that are not in this sector to make money. They have built up their competence over a long time. Many people in vulnerable situations lose their anchors, and then it is no longer the people who are at the centre of politics, but it is the system. This is unacceptable. I expect the Council of State in this debate to clearly signal that the Government will intervene against this practice and use the space for action provided by the EEA Agreement to exempt non-profit institutions from the tendering procedure, as the intention of the previous government was. It is a good step in the way that the government has sorted out the bidding round for non-profit institutions, but we have to make sure to use the action space to exempt them. The proposal of the Christian People's Party has promoted here in the Chamber, gives the Council of State the necessary pause of thought to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1051	SV has always – both locally and here in the house – had a great commitment to child protection. Children and young people in child protection have often suffered loss and have often felt weakened by adults. It's the most vulnerable. It must therefore be stated, as the Committee states, that the needs of the individual child or of the individual young person must be the starting point for relief measures. Saving on the findings of child protection will lead to higher expenditures later. I'm very happy that the ministry is planning to use its own institutions, or institutions run by non-profit institutions, and thus reduce the use of commercial ones. I look at the attitude that the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Left have a touching concern for the commercials, and it is these parties that the Christian People's Party will perhaps cooperate with in a new government majority. But Dagfinn Højbrätten kept a very good post, which I will elaborate on further. 400 child protection places have been offered in the last four years. According to the Bufatat guidelines, quality and price are to be counted equally in the competition. Unfortunately, it does not always do so, because according to an article in the Evening Post, several institutions say that they feel that it is the price that is very crucial in most cases. Therefore, there is good reason to look at the acquisition arrangements in the protection of children. I feel very confident that the Council of State will follow up on this. But it leads me to the proposed closure of Styve Gard, operated by the Church's Social Service in Hordaland. This is an institution I've known for many years in my political life in the county. The proposal for closure has aroused strong reactions, including among the red-green parties. Young people have created a page on Facebook. Yesterday, two former residents appeared and reported good experience from the institution. Family members tell us about the same thing, and now a torch is being mobilized. Why this commitment? Well, because it's the only child-rescue institution in the county that has youth with drugs as its main problem. The institution has a high level of recognition in terms of competence and experience both at the specialist teams and at the child protection service in the region. This offer is characterised by diversity and flexibility in light of the specific needs of young people. The offer is based on the principle of subsidiarity, in that young people can continue in school, find friends before rusty times, and have regular and close contact with family members. All of these are important prerequisites for success, because young people are going to get back into life. Life is to be lived in the community. Therefore, the institution cooperates closely with the municipality on post-protection and has exciting projects such as: the study ‘The vulnerable transition’. This is the background to some of the commitment to retain the institution for the youth, and I feel very confident that the Council of State is listening and trying to find constructive solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1068	The distribution denominator’s decision to refuse State aid to the children and young people of the Salvation Army has sent shock waves to Voluntary Norway. Many ask, are we getting a system where the state is going to censor and approve meanings and deep over-interpretation? And the Saga raise really strong, fundamental questions. Because if it is the case that through financial sanctions, the state is going to punish the organizations that think anything other than what is a government-approved opinion, then it's not just a matter of treason against the freedom of organisation, but against the freedom of trust itself. If the distribution selection remains standing, many more child and youth organisations will be affected than the children and young people of the Salvation Army. As a result, valuable work among tens of thousands of children and young people may be undermined by heavy government economic sanctions. If the government really takes the goal of going in and deciding opinions in this way, I will characterize it as a very democratic problem. Not only will it make Norway narrower and more needy, but, as I have already pointed out, it will threaten both the freedom of organization and the freedom of faith. Children and young people need good and safe leisure activities. Voluntary teams and organisations are completely irreplaceable in this work. The many, many idealistic and warm leaders on hand need support, encouragement and support for the great work they do. What we're witnessing is actually the exact opposite. So if the direction lines are so that the distribution denominator is bound by them, then the direction lines cannot stand. The government can't really frame us to go in the direction of a country that controls and approves ideas, even if it does happen by means of economic sanctions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1084	Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in. But it's probably not everyone who experiences it that way. Many children in Norway do not feel that easily, and they need the help of child protection. Child protection has an important job, but also we, as a fellow human being, have to care about children around us, and not least those who work with children have an obligation to report when they see that children are hurting. Only 3 pst. by the Child Restraint Safety Officer's messages of concern come from the kindergartens. Here we have a long way to go. Some kids are having trouble with alcohol. Bergen’s Official Journal has had articles over the past few weeks to show that 70–80 children in Bergen have a serious drug problem and that children down to the age of 14 are on heroin. Here we need to have measures, and a variety of measures that can help these children to have a good life. Someone can be in collective, where there are more children present, someone has to be in smaller groups, where that's best to help. There must be complex measures. It is important to take care of the well-developed professional environments. Several non-profit institutions which have been providing care to this group for over several decades do not respond to prices in the last round of tenders held by Bufdir. Styve Gard is mentioned. Next year, they'll have a 20th anniversary in Hordaland. They have a way to drive that gives progress in detoxification, which is very important. The fact that you can be somewhere and then go on and get after protection is very important for these kids. I hope that in the future we will focus on good quality, good professional environments, proximity to the home and a wide range of services for those who are addicted to the drug, and that the price will not be what will be left as the main factor for which institutions we will choose. The Council of State itself was concerned about the importance of having an institution in the community, which we also hope to maintain in the future in Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1099	We currently have a government that sits quietly and sees ideal institutions that have been operating for many decades, being reduced or discontinued, and young people losing their way into desperate treatment. One of the last were Solbu here in Oslo, an institution run by the Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association for Youth with Mental Disorders, with agreement with Ullevål. It was closed on 1 September this year. Not everyone who was being treated here received a different offer despite the health minister's insurance. Some had to move home to old parents, others were helped to get their own apartment, some were so lucky to have a different accommodation and treatment offer. Now it's time for the Children's Protection in West Norway. Styve Gard, which has been mentioned, and Garne's Youth Centre in Hordaland are two of several institutions that have drastically reduced their agreements. Styve Gard, operated by the Church's Social Service, is reduced from 14 to three places. Garne's Youth Centre, run by Bergen Diakonissen home Haraldsplatz, is halved. Last year, the institutions were required to participate in development work with Buffetat. They have not had any signals that went in the direction that they should not be used further, rather on the contrary. Following some concerns last year — in a tender procedure — the normal operating contract was continued this year, i.e. in 2008. At a meeting in the Ministry thereafter, a number of presidencies were identified for future agreements with which all parties were satisfied. I want to mention two of these leaders, who still don't seem to have such a big impact. One is that you should not break up a professional environment many children and young people consider as a home, as they do at the small institutions of Styve. The principle of subsidiarity is the second. The reality is now that Styve Gard doesn't see how they can carry on with just three places and four small institutions. This may mean that they have to stop, that they have to stop the operation, and that young people who are in treatment have to move out. I was visiting the institution on Saturday. It was a small and beautiful institution where the staff live with the residents one week at a time. It's almost -- I'll say -- an intermediary between a home and an institution. Afterwards, youth from Hordaland with serious drug, behaviour and crime problems will be sent out of our county. They cannot maintain regular contact with family and friends. Being able to go to their usual school is no longer possible. I want to finish by reading the young people – the young people who are on Styve Gard – their own words on Facebook: 'Don't put the measures down!!! Find another way to save money! Today's youth is the future, also those who are struggling!!! They're worth spending money on!!'
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1117	I have some comments for some visitors I have received. Let it be clear first: the right supports the two proposals put forward by the Christian People's Party. We believe that it is very important to look at the purchasing systems – and let's use that expression, not tenders. Tenders give completely wrong signals. We probably don't agree with the Christian People's Party in the first place, but we actually believe that with a little outmoded skill from the ministry and government if you want to have a wide range of private institutions, it will be possible to get it through good purchasing arrangements. So for equality and family. In fact, for the right, there's no contradiction between having equality and betting on the family. Equality must be done within the family framework. When the Workers' Party hung up in this, it's probably because we've used the word "great family". Let's write big family like it should be written today, that's a family where the network might go a little bit further than just mother and father and two children, a boy and a dick. Maybe there are some uncles and aunts living in the neighborhood. Maybe you're so lucky you have some grandparents living nearby. You have a family network – lucky it is at a time when many move. We think it's an amazing quality that lies in it. We think it's important to bet on the family, but it doesn't have to be in any way contrary to equality. If you read down a little bit further in our otherwise excellent comment, you'll see that it's pretty clear. So to Solhell. I don't know how young children should be until they're put on the school bench. Now let children be allowed to be children. If you have qualified staff today, you do what Solhjell describes: you give knowledge about billing and letters, and you start feeding in knowledge when it's natural. That's what a professional actor will do. If the government's demand for more learning is to be something more than a speck, you have to start talking about learning goals. Then you have to talk about mandatory offers, which are measurable and have content. Then we're out in a galley that tightens up the choices, that tightens up the flexibility that young children deserve, and that tightens up in relation to the living conditions that young children should be allowed to have. Finally, the fear-based power structure in Bufatat. Yes, I am well aware of that, after many, many telephones from institutions, that it took one year or maybe two years before you dared to stand up with things that you had outstanding with Buffetat, where it has been communicated – I would say – frightening attitudes and great anxiety that you would lose the last agreements that you cling to before you were on your way to the replacement law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1130	Dreikeskevå, run by the Church's City Mission, is a private, non-profit institution in Sandnes that has places for young people who have problems with crime, who have mental and behavioural problems. They have recently received letters from the Children’s Youth and Family Directorate that they are not getting a new contract with the Children’s Protection Agency. This is justified by the fact that ‘the institution is assessed weak in several areas’. According to Stavanger Aftenblad on 10 December 2008, the institution is not familiar with this criticism at all. They say that there has been no criticism of the institution by the directorate. They're not sure what the criticism is. The institution is well known in Sandnes for good and stable operations for many years. My impression of the institution after being a principal in the municipality for many of these years is very positive. They are initially concerned about youth with behavioral problems, and do a good job. From 1992 until 2004, Drieskevå has had an agreement with the county and from 2004 with the state. The institution is one of the few in the region that is for young people with behavioural problems. The institution which, as I said, operates that the Church's Bymission, operates entirely non-profit. They have had an operating agreement that has been such that they have covered their deficit. When they have had profits, this has been reversed. On 27 October of the autumn, Dreineskevå was given re-approval by Bufetat Region west. Therefore, it is totally incomprehensible that they have not now, a month and a half later, got a new contract with the child protection authorities. It becomes difficult to understand when the justification is that the institution is considered weak in terms of quality. Today and before the weekend, I spoke to the leader of the Drieskevå in Sandnes. They have not received any non-conformity messages since the last authorisation, or before, regarding the quality of the offer. Therefore, a few have to ask: what kind of criteria is the basis for the conclusion of contracts with non-profit institutions on child-rescue facilities for young people, and in what way are institutions assessed? I challenge the Council of State to respond to this: what is the reason when suddenly there comes such a message as lightning from the clear sky? There's a proposal on the table tonight that child-rescue institutions as per. today has an operating agreement with Bufetat, must be extended until 31 December 2009. I am pleased that several representatives this evening, including from the government parties, have talked a lot about extending the agreements. That's common sense. It is about the stability and predictability of our most vulnerable young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1145	First I will inform you that the Progress Party will also support the two proposals of the Christian People's Party that are distributed in the Chamber. It is based on the fact that we are also concerned about the most vulnerable in our country. 14 years ago, I joined the county council in Hordaland and decided that Styve Gard would get public money to expand and modernise, which resulted in a great institution with a capacity for 14 young people. Now we hear – and this is probably just the top of the iceberg I think – that 70–80 kids and young people are just rushing in Bergen. Hordaland is much more than Bergen. The councils have notified Styve Gard that they now have only three seats. Three places. 70-80 kids are rushing! What are you going to do with the rest? Is it so that they will be picked up in the arrest, as I experienced being made night to Sunday? A 16-year-old girl was so drunk and no one could take care of her, so she had to go to jail and get drunk. Is this how to treat youth with drug problems? It is quite right, as the representative of the Workers' Party said, that Bergen's Official Journal has had a long series of articles on child protection. There we could also read about children who started heroin when they were 13 years old. One said quite openly that he himself had to figure out ways to get treatment. Child protection was not interested in helping him. Then we have an institution like Styve Gard, who is able to deal with addictive youth, and then they only get three places! What are the signals from the Minister for Children and Gender Equality? That we don't care about children with drug problems? There were also youths who had lived on Styve Gard, who said that they would hardly have survived if they had not come there. If Styve Gard now has to shut down, that means that we in Hordaland, and in the second largest city in Norway, have to transport our drug addicts far away, which the council didn't seem to be a good solution either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1156	I am very pleased that there are so many who speak hotly for the ideal institutions that are in danger of having to wind up. There's one aspect I want to highlight a little bit. That's what these institutions, I think both at the youth center of Garnes and Styve Gard, do when it comes to the situation of the relatives. One of the parents – the father of one of the residents who is there now, or who has been there – says that the geographical proximity is very important, because it enables the family to have contact with the youth. It is also important that they work to ensure that the relatives can gather — that is a little special — in order to share their own experiences with their children in this situation and to find a community between themselves. A number of meetings have been held, to which the institution has invited, including those from both the scientific environment and relevant care sectors. This father says that the relatives are often forgotten, but here, in particular, Styve Gard, with whom he is in contact, has done an excellent job. So a question to the Council of State. I don't know why Bufdir has offered 80 pst. of what they wanted to cover. They had so many places that they wanted to assign, and then they allocated 80 pst. There may be special reasons for what I don't know. When Styve Gard, this youth centre and this institution in Stavanger have been allocated a few seats, they are told that they can join the next bidding round for the spring. In that case, there shall be an open competition in which commercial operators shall participate and where ideals may also be involved. So, you poor people who didn't get the offer, but try again with the commercial ones! It's completely unimaginable, as I see it, that these will be able to compete. Does the government council think it's okay that the ideals are now going to try again in the spring with the commercial ones? Styve Gard, for example. have been allocated three places – and then shall they try again? Before spring comes, they probably won't be there anymore. They cannot operate with only three places and four institutions. They have four small institutions and have been allocated three places. Warmth! But they can be involved in new commercial competition in half a year's time. I don't understand much of the government's bidding policy!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1165	The reason why we have taken out the ideal actors in a separate round does not mean that we can ignore the general principles underlying the law on public acquisitions. It has to be transparent. It shall be possible to compare the price. It has to be quality, and it has to be close. That means that we're taking the ideals out in a separate round, but that doesn't mean that all the ideals automatically have blank permissions to continue. But I want to focus on one important aspect, and that is that when someone now possibly loses the framework agreement – I also want to stress that they have an appeal, but given that someone loses the framework agreement – it does not automatically mean that all the places are necessarily given up for the individual child, the individual youth. The parlour was taken up from this pulpit. It was a private arrangement that was laid down, but they were given the opportunity to extend the agreement with the user in question, which was shown in a television program. So as far as possible, the agency is trying to make an offer, despite the fact that the institution as such no longer has a framework agreement. There shall also be new rounds with the ideal actors, and there will also be rounds for the commercial ones, where it is possible to register. But it's not like we're taking out the ideals in a separate round, that means they're automatically being extended. We have also stressed the principle of subsidiarity and the need for more institutional provision in their neighbourhood. This means, among other things: that some regions do not have the same need as others. We emphasize that this should happen with the least possible pain for the individual child. That's why we focus on predictability. If we were only to have predictability and guarantee it, we would only have state institutions. Then we had no need for competition, and then we had not taken into account any EEA legislation, but I believe that it would be professionally irresponsible, because important environments are built by many both commercial and non-profit actors. And when we have these, we've fixed the tender period from four plus one plus one, which means an extension of the period, which creates more predictability for the individual child. So I believe that within the EEA agreement that we have, we have imposed the legislation much longer than was the case for the previous government. And anyway, we have to focus on quality and compare prices. And in the decisions that the department has made, I've assured myself that those criteria are at the root of it, but of course, everyone will be able to appeal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1178	The representative Olemic Thommessen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1181	Once again, we are discussing child protection. Once again, there are problems all the way. Once again, the Council of State is satisfied with the way things are, and defends with beaks and claws that they should continue to be so. It's hard to understand when you're in a situation where you want to do everything at the same time. My advice would be: Do one thing at a time! First, you have to phase out the private ones – at least marginalize them. There are unclear procurement guidelines. You want to build a state offering, while doing all this else – with non-existent, reinforced foster homes, and multi-functional institutions that are expensive to build, and that we have no reason to believe that there are so many who use. There are increasing emergency positions, and through various contributions from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party that I join, this is driven by poor resource management. Then it doesn't help to spend another 1 billion kroner, which the Council of State is sung by. Then you have to use that billion better, and then you might have to bring in the hundreds of millions that the Right had in addition to this, because that's what's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1190	There is room to exempt the ideal institutions from bidding rounds if the government so wishes. There is a greater liberality than the government can use. I had hoped that through this debate, at least the government would be involved in extending the agreements for those who already have an operating agreement with Bufetat – now Bufdir – out of the year, so that one got to go into this thoroughly. But I notice that, unfortunately, the Council of State seems to stand firm that this has now been delegated to Bufdir. They're responsible for carrying out bidding rules, and they're also appeals. I had hoped that a government from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party would have taken this opportunity that is now opening, to stop and think about. We see that several important professional institutions run by non-profit organisations and foundations can now disappear, because a pusher supply system too hard. Who will be the losers by that? Yeah, they're the kids. One knows that children who receive a treatment offer on Styve Gard, for example. At the same time, having contact with their local environment — they travel to school, perhaps one hour each way, to stay in touch with the local environment where they live — would not be given the opportunity if Hordaland now loses its offer, and they have to travel any longer. I cannot see with my best will that many of these criteria that one has added to, for example. The principle of subsidiarity, is followed up, and if the Council of State won't intervene because Bufdir is both an actor and an appeal authority, we sit here powerless and can't do anything. So my prayer goes to the government party: please, stop and take a break to take care of the professional environment, to take care of important institutional services that we have today – several have already disappeared. Now, are we going to lean back and see that more people disappear without taking advantage of the possibility of a break in thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1197	This is a matter of concern. It engages the whole population of Sandnes, because the population of Sandnes, one of the fastest growing municipalities with many children and a lot of young people, knows that the young people of Dreineskevå have no alternative. The reinforced foster homes do not exist. It is not useful to say that even if you have not been given an extension of the contract for the tripod, it is not the case that the young people have to leave. Well, if the turnips are laid down, the kids actually have to move. They have no options. I know that this rarely involves me much, because I know the staff of Dreikeskevå, who is doing a huge job for the young people it's about. It's not an option. That's why we have to have a government and a state council that says, "We want a three-way street." We want nine spaces there. We want predictability. We want stability for vulnerable young people with behavioural difficulties. I hope the Council of State sees that at least she has to say that she's going to spend a year thinking about, before she risks the institution being laid down. So the Council of State said, if one is to be sure of predictability, we must only have state institutions. Then I can say: In 1991, I started as a school principal at high school in Sandnes. The most stable place for children with behavioral problems in Sandnes, and so far in the North Jären, was the Church's Bymition. There was stability and continuity among staff as well. It's the funding that hasn't been stable. Today, the manager of Twisted Twisted said to me that the problem was that before it was public that carried the risk of the work they were doing in Twisted Twisted. They covered the deficit. The turntable returned profits, and it acted as a non-profit-making organisation. Now there are those who have to submit tenders, who bear the risk. It must be more expensive. We're afraid that Swivelness, which has no capital in its back, which is not a commercial profit organization, has no chance of reaching out in a second round. In summary, I would like to ask that the Council of State take the extended hand, spend more time and not allow institutions like Dreiskevå to come into a situation where there is no agreement for tomorrow. That's a right to complain, right? You need a stronger signal to keep up some of the most difficult work you can do, working with young people with behavioral problems. I ask that the government ignore its principles in this matter and look at the realities, or tell me what the alternative is for these young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1209	If the representative Tørresdal believes that I am going to intervene with a concrete institution and agree on a political basis outside the criteria and outside the law of public procurement, I can say that I am not going to do that – like my predecessor Laila Davøy. It would be very unforgiving. So now it's done a round for the non-profit organizations. There have been several ideal places. It doesn't match the impression that's been made by some representatives here, that we cut into agreements with non-profit organisations. There have been several institutional locations in the non-profit organisations during this round. If we are to set this round aside, we will create great uncertainty and little predictability for those who have now reached an agreement. It will mean little predictability for these institutions. For many, the new round includes much more predictability for the future. The right-hand side of this equation is going to add up. If the Right had decided, there would be more tenders and no less. And it had not been a separate round for the ideal organizations. If the Progress Party, the Left and the Right had been ruled, everyone would have been in full competition – and more than that – all the time, because then the public institutions would have been built up. So I do not mean, as Mr Tørresdal said, that we can only say yes to state institutions. I think that would have been completely irresponsible. Many very good professional environments have been built up, both in commercial and non-profit actors. That is why we will now implement this. It's a deadline for appeals. It may relate to the institutions. I'm not going to go in and override this process. On the other hand, we go inside and say that we want a separate round. We want to take advantage of the derogation provided for in the EEA Agreement, but to have a deliberation process on which institutions are to be agreed with the public will not be tidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1220	The representative, Laila Bavøy, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1223	What is predictability? First, these institutions received a reply in December, and then they will wind up on 1 January. They'll lose the offer. They lose their seats from 1 January. They will have three seats from 1 January. They got a response in December this year. That's not predictability. The government has spoken about predictability. Why, then, were these institutions assigned to be involved in development work as late as ours? They had to be in on that. There is something quite different than imagining that they would suddenly have to close and not get a tender. That's the one. The second thing is, of course, you shouldn't go beyond the rules that apply. I agree. But you have to be able to follow your own rules, which you have laid down, for example. not to break up a professional environment that children and young people feel is their home. That professional environment is breaking up. Closeness to school, family, etc. is also a basic criterion. This is going to be broken. The price is what hangs again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1232	This is an important principleal debate, because it is about what space it should be in the Norwegian community for voluntary non-profit involvement. This is an important matter because it concerns some of the most vulnerable people in our society. That's why you need a careful treatment of their offerings, which is actually not just a care offer, but it's their home. I must say that I do not feel that the Council of State has dealt with this matter with the care the matter requires. It has been demonstrated by an investigation by the Swedish Investigation Section that there is a greater scope for exempting and exempting non-profit institutions and organisations from the tendering rules than is the practice in Norway under the red-green government. It is also possible to go to countries such as Denmark, which have a much more liberal practice within the same EU acquis as Norway is bound by. The government must at least, if it is to be a believer critical of too much market adjustment, take advantage of the degrees of freedom it has. Secondly, the Council of State could not possibly have listened to the representative Tørresdal, and she could not possibly have read the proposal that the Christian People's Party has made here today, which has been distributed. It is not a proposal that the Council of State should intervene with individual institutions, it is a proposal to freeze the current situation – the agreements it now has – until consideration is given to and a review of the general legislation. That is what the proposal is all about. It's not insolent, it's thoughtful, it's careful, it's a treatment that this matter actually requires of its state council. I will dare the claim that the Council of State, with its – if I may say – somewhat odd behaviour here today has not only been on a collision course with the Christian People's Party, it probably does not concern her at all, but she has embarked on a collision course with an overall opposition, and she has probably also taken part in a collision course with representatives of all the government parties in this Chamber. It is not a good idea, and at least it is not good for the matter that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1248	I note that the opposition to the issue of commercial versus non-profit institutions is far from being united. Here, there are very different opinions. So I would like to say to the representative Højbrätten – who is proposing that the Storting should now decide to freeze the whole situation – that many non-profit institutions are very pleased with the agreements that have been concluded. If we're going to ignore the round that has been, and say no, now we're not doing what we've agreed, we've made agreements, but we're ignoring them, because we now want to restore the status quo and extend the agreements that have been, another year, then it creates very little predictability for the institutions that have now got an agreement. They've been waiting a long time, it's toward the end of December, we're about to sign agreements now, and it would be very unfortunate for those who, after all, are satisfied in this round, and there are many. I stress that I am not going to go directly to those who are now in appeal proceedings, but I want to tell the representative Davøy that we have created predictability far more than the previous government, because we have now arranged for framework agreements lasting four plus one plus one year, as opposed to two plus one plus one. It means more predictability for individual children, longer framework agreements and other rules for NPISHs than for commercial ones. It is predictable for the individual child. The fact that you no longer have a framework agreement is not automatic termination of an agreement for the individual child, so for many of them it will be possible to extend the agreement for the individual child even after 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1257	I do not intend to extend the debate; I only intend to explain the vote of the Left in the two proposals of the Christian People's Party which have been distributed in the Chamber. From the left's point of view, the proposals are not entirely ideal, but we have little confidence that the Government will be able to reach agreements with the private, non-profit institutions in this area, as I explained in my main post. That is why we also want to support the proposals – to say that we want more predictability for the actors in the system, the government council said what she said.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1262	The representative Tørresdal has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1265	Just a brief clarification. I just have to be allowed to say in the beginning that I would like the Council of State to listen to what is really our proposal. Our proposal is as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that child protection institutions as per. Today, an operating agreement with Bufetat has been extended until 31 December 2009.’» There is nothing to say that you should drop those who have got it now, and it must not be perceived like that. It is about those who have contracts today being extended because they are valuable places. One must try to see if one can find room for them within the regulation so that they can have predictable places. They're there now, and we want to secure them into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1275	Several have not asked for the floor in the debate on Box 2. We're going to go to Framework 3 which is culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1280	Now we're going to change the theme. I have previously thanked the Committee for a very good work on the budget. It also applies to the cultural frame. The proposal for a cultural budget is essentially good. More good purposes get increased promises, and the Christian People's Party supports it. However, some measures are particularly important to us. We would like to support them further, so we proposed increasing frame 3 by 18 million. In addition to the government's proposal to deal with the financial situation. In addition, we proposed redispatching 27 million. kr from one of the disposal items. This was in line with our alternative state budget, but it didn't get multiples. When it applies to the disposition item, I will comment on it briefly. There is no logical reason to triple this entry. I have noticed the Council of State's response in Question Time on 12 November, as this was taken up. The councils said: ‘The red-green government has a majority, and cultural life is just as happy with the money if they are adopted by the red-green majority in the Stortinget, or if they come from a variety of places on the cultural budget.’ The councils are probably right that cultural life is happy for the money, but if we were to follow this line all the way out, we could cancel this whole debate here today. Yes, we could not be dealing with the budget at all. We can't have it that way. That's why we want to pay attention to these means, as well as we're proposing to increase the total frame. But let this lie – a debate on the cultural budget should be about concrete things. The council's need to make money at its discretion, we can probably get back to you on a later occasion. Now, the government has also reduced this entry, and we support the proposed redeployments. The privileges of the cultural sector are increasing, and that's very good. That's what the government must have boasted about. The Christian People's Party has a special heart for voluntary teams and organizations. We will appreciate and encourage the enormous idealism and virtue that exist in the Norwegian people. Norway probably has 4.7 million inhabitants, while Norwegian voluntary teams and associations have three times as many members. The tax deduction for donations to voluntary organisations contributed to strengthening Norwegian organisational life, and the scheme provides layers and associations with greater financial armaments. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has proposed to increase the deduction limit to NOK 18 000 for gifts to voluntary organisations. We also proposed to increase the limits on pay and employer pay for voluntary organisations. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and the Church in the field of volunteering. In practical policy, the raining up of the fine words from the volunteer message is not enough. It is alarming that the case of VAT for the voluntary sector has not yet been clarified. The government has trained this matter. Now, the promise of clarification is replaced by a vague promise of an extra billion over a certain period of time. This is unbearable. The Government Party has voted in favour of the opposition on several occasions. It happened the last time during the financial debate in the past in the autumn. Today, however, the government party is given a new opportunity. The opposition proposes that the Government submit its own case on the exemption of VAT to voluntary organisations. Now the government party must follow its own promises. The Christian People's Party will support voluntary activities among children and young people at local level. This year, it's been ten years since Freefonds became established. This scheme has significant activities locally. Now we know that the incomes of Norwegian Typing are uncertain. There are also many teams and associations that found it problematic to accept money that comes from games. Therefore, Freefonds should be more financed from the State budget. I am pleased that Frifond was strengthened during the treatment of the financial institution, which was also proposed by the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget. Today, the Christian People's Party proposes that bingo machines be removed from the market. It is surprising and very critical that the state council has extended the slot for bingo machines, despite the fact that the gambling addicts and their relatives have strongly protested. Several professional environments view these games as at least as addictive as the old slot machines that are currently banned. I have registered that the state council will leave the bingo vending machines for another year. Or, as his secretary of state says to VG December 4th, that Gisk will have ‘an additional year to tighten up the unregulated game’. So the state councils will wait until after the election to clean up, while the Labour Party will raise large revenues for its own election campaign. The representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen said on the Landstinget on TV 2 earlier this year that she would go beyond what the government has done in bingo vending machines. We should listen to SV in this matter. Municipal cultural spheres are very important for strengthening the cultural competence of children and young people, and for the experience of children and young people in the arts and culture. Cultural spheres are also essential to ensure good recruitment of cultural practitioners. Unfortunately, the supply varies greatly from municipality to municipality. Some places work well, while other municipalities cut in supply and increase their own payments. We need to provide a more equivalent supply across the country. It is also important that all children and young people can go to cultural schools independently of their parents. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed a new addendum, initially of 10 million. kr, which will help more people gain free space in the municipal cultural spheres. The Christian People's Party will support the many choirs, corps and amateur orchestras we have in our country. Shore activity support should be doubled. We also propose the creation of a dedicated support system for the purchase of musical instruments for school and amateur orchestras, and we are positive to the increase in the instrument fund for musical orchestras. The Korb movement has been a central factor in Norwegian music history. In spite of this, choral music has not had the same status as artistic expression as other music ensembles in Norwegian society. One of the reasons for this is that we haven't had a professional career that raises this music to a high international level, like we do. has gained experience with the symphonic music practice. A number of other countries have professional choirs. Sweden has its radio choir, Germany has several, among others. Berlin Radiokor. The Netherlands, Switzerland, Denmark and the Baltic States have their own. It's time for a national lift for a professional choir in Norway. I would urge the Government Party to vote in favour of proposal No. 37, from the Christian People's Party, Right and Left. We need a choir that can have institutional arrangements to run stable artistic activity in line with the professional orchestras. That must be the level of ambition. A professional choir will contribute strongly to the preservation and further development of the national value of the choir art. At the same time, there will be a spearhead into a large international market. For composers and educational institutions, such an instrument is also important for the further development and renewal of the vocal music tradition. It is very important that collections managed by archives, libraries and museums are properly preserved, updated and disseminated. There are still many challenges in this area. In particular, the archive field has become dependent on – private archives in particular. Many archives institutions make a great effort to keep records of companies and other private archives. But this requires space and resources that institutions often lack. Many important archives disappeared because of it, and historical sources are lost. There's a big change in Norwegian business. Cornerstone farms are being laid down. These are enterprises where generations of workers have been added, enterprises that have played an important role in the development of the community. There is valuable archive material here. The Christian People's Party believes that there should be a support scheme for private archives, and we have proposed 2 million. kr as an initial permission to do so. A lot of knowledge is lost because there are no resources, and there are small resources to take care of large national taxes – a story that can be lost if we do nothing. That's why I'm a little sorry that private archives haven't got any more attention when you've found so much resources in total to add to the cultural sector. Otherwise, I'll finish by saying that we've got a great and great national opera in Bjørvika, and we've seen that there's been an enormous bloom of interest for what's moving in Bjørvika. Many people want to go to concerts and don't get tickets, but it's also a little frustrating to feel that there's a setup that doesn't make any of it because you don't have an adequate economy. That's why I think it's important that the Minister of Culture goes into and looks at the situation in relation to the Opera, and would like to come back to Stortinget with a briefing on this, because once we've got a new, great and great national opera, it's important that we have the most possible art and experiences. At the same time, we must not forget that we are going to have a regional investment in district operas – that, when we are going to have a new, large national opera, we should also have a parallel construction of the district opera. Here one should also have come with more resources. The Christian People's Party has proposed 4 million in its alternative budget. NOK to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1331	We're coming here tonight to adopt a historic commitment to culture. It also makes it difficult for the opposition to criticise the Government, which has facilitated such a formidable effort. I record that both in the setting and in the debates we have had earlier this year, the opposition is trying to create an ideological distinction between the Government and itself. But I just have to admit that the only ideological distinction I can see in this room is between the Progress Party and the others. The greatest distinction of all is perhaps between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, because the distance is very great in terms of game policy, where the Christian People's Party is restrictive, while the Progress Party is too full liberalisation. The same applies to media policy – in view of the NRC and the broadcasting licence, in view of the press support and in view of the budget appropriations of the Ministry of Culture. I wonder how the Christian People's Party intends to deal with the Advance Party after the election by any bourgeois majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1340	It's true, as the representative Gjul has it, that the distance between the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party is great when it comes to cultural policy. A number of cultural areas, including: In fact, when it comes to supporting voluntary teams and organisations and the issue of VAT, we are a few to highlight. But when it's about the vision of press support and a number of other things, we're disunity. This policy is particularly true of gambling, where we do not want liberalisation. The Labour Party and the Government have gone in the right direction, even though I still think it is a paradox that the Workers' Party allows bingo machines, which I was in my post. I thought it was quite eye-catching. I also feel that the government in some of these areas must push it in the right direction, even though they are easily indebted to the Christian People's Party when it comes to how development is today versus when we were in government. We started in a good deal, and got things in the right direction, and now I hope that the government will take proper care of some of the challenges that remain, among other things. in the case of online games.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1347	Also today the representative Molvær Grimstad showed his great commitment to gambling and gambling issues. There are several of us who share that commitment. We have had some good years, first under the State Council of Reply City Haugland, who for the first time in many decades made sure that it became more restrictive to play, and later with the State Council of Trond Giske, who has taken even greater steps to get rid of gambling addiction. So we're impatient, some of us, we want to go even further, and it will both Molver Grimstad and I. But what has been fine throughout this period is that it has gone in one course: it has become more restrictive. We are faced with a choice for the harvest. Of course, I expect the red-green government and a sensible game policy to continue, but we see alternative getting up. In today's vote, we see that both the Progress Party, the Right and the Left are giving a signal, and that is liberalisation around the game policy. How does the representative Molvær Grimstad feel about supporting or going into government with three parties that clearly show that they want to liberalise gambling policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1356	The Christian People's Party is similar to the SV engaged in having a restrictive game policy because there are still many who become addicted to games. We've seen a lot of social tragedy. That's why I'm happy for SV's commitment to this. The political direction in which the Left, Right and Advance Party have been involved in this matter does not share the Christian People's Party. We want to be involved and influence in the most restrictive direction possible. We also hope that the Government will go further. We have had more proposals that have gone in a more restrictive direction than the Government has agreed to. When it comes to online gambling issues, this has been the case with payment transactions, but also issues related to the ip address. We need to see if there are other tools that should have been evaluated to avoid more young people getting caught up in online gambling. We know that there are especially target groups among young people this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1365	I experienced at the first line I had to the representative, Molvær Grimstad, that she did not answer my question, so I allow myself to ask the question again, because it is very concrete: how does the Christian People's Party think to deal with the Advance Party after the election if it becomes a bourgeois majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1370	After all, the Christian People's Party has said that a desired collection in the center, with right and left. We'd like to have had with the Center Party, too, because we think this government would have needed a solution. We have in a way concentrated our policies on the question of where we will get the most out of control, and have then seen that it will be in this area that we would get the most out of our policies. That doesn't mean that there are no issues where we can be some with the Progress Party, or with the Labour Party or SV for that cause's sake. So for us, it's the most important thing. And one thing I mentioned is this with VAT compensation for voluntary teams and organizations. It's a matter that the Government has flagged high, but where they haven't fulfilled, and where we have, together with the Progress Party, actually had proposals that could really have meant a lot to a lot of people who are doing voluntary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1377	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1380	Culture is a budget winner in the 2009 state budget. It represents a fabulous follow-up to the budgets submitted in the cultural field over the last few years, which together will contribute to fulfilling the 1-pst cultural promise. of the State budget for cultural purposes by 2014. When we present the importance of culture to individuals and to society, there are several aspects. It has to do with the movement of art and the ability to be conducive to thoughts, emotions and insight. We view culture and cultural participation as an important response to man's desire to express himself and to be able to participate in a creative community. The cultural budget we are debating today has increased by 748 million. kr from last year. There is a record — and an increase that allows for considerable investment in many different sectors. I could create a long and very pleasant list of areas that have been given a significant boost, among other things. through guides placed in five large-scale messages from different parts of the cultural field. But I have chosen to bring forward some areas of activity that can illustrate what we do in the field of culture, and draw some lines in relation to what is our policy. A big music bet, with an increase of 120 million. kr, provides room for strengthening both rhythmic and classical music. The music ensembles and orchestras in North Norway will be given for approximately the next year. Ten million. kr in increase, and may start symphonic orchestral cooperation with the environments of Tromsø and Bodø as main actors. This can contribute to Nord-Norway finally getting a music promise that other parts of the country have had for many years. And that's good. The orchestral field for the rest is increasing by 28 million. kr, while the appropriations for ensemble support and the purchase of music from the Norwegian Culture Council budget are also well endorsed. As a follow-up to the paper on rhythmic music, “Interplay”, the allocations to these forms of music increased by 17 million. kr. At the same time, the support schemes for rhythmic music, based on the work of the Løken Committee, are being restructured in order to facilitate access to the instruments for music players. It has also been an important task for the Løken Committee to ensure that as much as possible of the allocations in the various support schemes are benefiting artists and cultural actors to an even greater extent, without too many detours. This government has significantly increased its funding for film purposes for three years. The film budget will receive almost 50 million in 2009. NOK and will then be on top of a total of 600 million. kr. Film is an exciting field. Perhaps some of the most important things that have happened in recent years, that this cultural area has been democratised and thus also decentralised. New and accessible technologies and easier access to competences mean that films are no longer an art form controlled by a small exclusive circuit. Now we can see that when it comes to the activity in the film field around the country. It is great to experience that the best and most important films released this year were created in cooperation with and with the support of the regional film communities. The Film Message Wizard, as this government presented in 2007, gave a clear signal for this development. An important scheme in the film release was the introduction of a 15 pst. Discount scheme for foreign film productions in Norway. This could help us become competitive as an attractive country for film recording, and more internationalise our own film industry. In addition, around the film environments involved in international productions, large-scale activities are generated that benefit entire communities. There is no concealment that foreign film producers are looking for partners who can offer a combination of film competence, financial participation and a great and exciting nature that not many countries can match us with. It is the Norwegian Film Institute that is to manage the discount scheme for foreign film productions, and we have clear expectations that this will be prioritised in the Foundation's budget and that the scheme will be implemented in 2009. We're about to leave the year that the Government appointed as Mangfold Year. Souls have given me the opportunity to travel around and meet some of the people who have gone into the work of creating greater diversity in cultural life, and it has been an unspeakable joy. However, I see that in its main comment, the Right believes that overarching the goal of the Year of Mangfold was the integration of minorities into Norwegian society. I think that is wrong. The aim of the Year of Mangfold was primarily to raise voices in the Norwegian cultural landscape, which has so far worked side by side and perhaps hidden from the ethnic Norwegian cultural environment. There are voices that deserve to be equal to the others. We have one sacred belief that different cultural expressions in contact with each other lead to a positive development. We believe that the visibility of diversity will make Norwegian cultural life richer and qualitatively better. That's why Mangfold's year was a great start. We are now continuing to invest in a diverse cultural life through the 2009 budget and increasing the allocations for diversity measures by 22 million. kr. A thriving cultural life depends on the existence of latitude activity side by side with the professional and generally highly profiled art. The government is increasing the budget for volunteering by 55 million. NOK and bring it up to a total of 345 million. kr. This includes, inter alia: more money for Freefonds and 26 new volunteer centres. Having a rich recreational culture life is important for individuals, for society and as a basis for interacting with and recruiting for professional arts. Voluntary cultural life is a pillar of the country's cultural life and deserves the strengthening that we are now contributing to. The government is following up the Northern Region initiative in the cultural field. That's for 2009 totaled 10 million. on the budgets of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for cross-border cultural cooperation in the North, a cooperation based on long traditions of inter-ethnic interaction and association. Of such cooperation, many beautiful artistic bets have emerged, such as: the contemporary art group «Pikes on the Bridge» in Kirkenes, which, with its «Border Dialogues», creates and works effortlessly locally as well as internationally, and which sees exactly that as two sides of the same case. It just reminds us that the time has definitely come to park concepts such as ‘district culture’ and ‘rich culture’ when this is thought into a kind of quality hierarchy. Many were amazed when the small town of Nesseby in Finnmark could last with the very tough and professional Norwegian-Samian band BlackSheeps, who won the Nordic Youth Grand Prix, and who is now predicted a brilliant career by even the most inflated music journalists. But it really shouldn't surprise anyone that the talents pop up in seemingly unimaginable places. We have seen this for some time now, with a Mari Boine from Inner Billefjord in Finnmark, a Robert Burås from Bjerkvik in Northern Ireland or a Nils Petter Molvær from Langevåg on Sunnmøre – to name a few. So you can ask, does this have anything to do with politics? Yeah, it's got it to the most extent. If the talents are to develop, they must be given early opportunities — through cultural schools, through meetings with artists, for example. in the cultural school system, with cultural actions in youth and educational institutions accessible to all — regardless of background. This is the government's policy. This is based on the platform that social-democratic governments started for the cultural field already in the 1970s, and which enabled the part of the country from which I come to develop professional artistic environments and institutions. Fortunately, there is broad political agreement on the main features of such a policy. However, it makes me have to pay a visit to the Cultural Policy of the Advance Party, because it differs dramatically from most. At a recent meeting of the Norwegian Cultural Council, I found reason to say, in full seriousness, that we need the Progress Party in the Norwegian cultural debate. The reason for this is that we are still reminded of how we do not want cultural policy to be shaped here to land. The party of progress is talking about professional art and artists who don't really need a society, and who don't need special care. In their rhetoric, professionalism is almost expressed as something negative and not desirable. The party of progress is disdainfully talking about an elite who only turns to a sloppy circle, and who, on the other hand, gets the full attention of the government. As an example, the Progress Party mentions the opera in Bjørvika. This is an unusually poorly chosen example of demonstrating the allegedly narrow impact field of art. The Opera, as most people want to know, has had full houses all year round and is sold out far out in the autumn of 2009. When the turn of the year is round, the Opera will have had about 900,000 visitors this year. We are experiencing a global financial crisis that also strikes us. I think that might mean that we, as people, are looking at other values. I track that art and culture in the years to come are becoming even more important in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1406	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1409	I really don't know where to start. The representative Knutsen says and makes us think it was the red-green government that invented the regional film funds. That's not the case. The regional film funds invented themselves, and then, in good cooperation with what was then the opposition, we were allocated to them. The Knutsen also says that she puts the regional film bets very high. But we in the opposition believe that there are very many restrictions on how the state funds are to be used in the regional funds. What does the representative Knutsen think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1419	I think there were far greater restrictions on regional funds under the previous government. What is now the case is that regional funds can be used freely. The same could be true of the state funds invested in the funds, except for the one ratio that they should go to any film production other than that supported by the Norwegian Film Fund. We think it's important to get a greater diversity of film productions, and we think it's important that we have a slightly different view of what films are worth producing. We believe that the device that is now on the regional film funds contributes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1424	This summer I visited some bingo rooms to see how they used to work so-called bingo machines. After the disappearance of the slot machines in the grocery stores and kiosks, there has been an increase in bingo machine turnover. When I went into the room, there was a person who contacted me and said, "Are you not a politician?" I said that I was, I was a little interested in seeing how it worked. So I say to you, please get rid of these bingo machines. These are more aggressive, they're more exciting, you can play away more in a shorter time. These are worse than the other vending machines that we've had. For the sake of those who are game addicts: will the Labour Party join in and get rid of these bingo machines, which we have suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1431	The working party will agree that we get rid of all kinds of games that we can get rid of that lead to addiction. When we've assumed that the bingo machines didn't lead to the degree of dependence of the vending machines that were free, it's because they're under a little more supervision, and there's someone in the room that fits. But I agree with the representative that we need to keep an eye on how these machines work, and I am sure that the government will make sure that we have a policy that does not lead to increased dependence through these machines.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1436	I would like to ask something that the representative did not mention in his post, namely the museum. We are now in a consolidation process that has been widely agreed upon in this house. There was a broad consensus that you should use both whips and carrots. You shouldn't lose anything by going in, but you would get if you went in. Now it turns out that you use more whips than you use carrots. The carrot has become quite small, and e.g. The museum director at Orkla Industriemuseum says you're getting scared to go in. Or to take the Rørosmuseet, they say they feel like a little, exposed piece in a big game. I would like to ask the representative of the government the question that the Museum of Røros asks itself in today's Evening Post: How far are you willing to go to land this museum reform? Are you willing to kill the museums?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1445	I think the consolidation is very important, and I think it's absolutely right that you link the appropriations to the different museums that have consolidated. Some have been very good and have, perhaps against their own resistance, managed to achieve a consolidation with other museums. It has been shown that they have earned it both economically and operationally. I think it's sad if some museums go under because they can't find anyone to consolidate with, but I think that's actually what all museums can do. It goes a little bit on the will of someone and maybe a fear of change. I'm sure the government will follow this closely, and that you're good at introducing the museums that actually do a very good job by consolidating themselves with other museums.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1452	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1455	Now we've heard enough praise for the cultural policy of the red-green government and what great increases there are in the cultural budget for next year too. But let's take a little look back at what actually happened in 2008 to news and visions from the same government – and it wasn't big. We've had a year of diversity that cost 50 million. kr, and we've had the cultural city of Stavanger, which got 100 million. kr by the State. The Year of Manifestance is obviously so successful that it will continue into 2009, so we have to assume that it has come to be. Kulturbyen Stavanger costs 100 million. kr, and it is hardly known beyond the borders of Norway. The director even admits that marketing might have been better. I guess I don't think most people have had any sense of the amazing cultural promise of the year that went on, and I don't think they'll notice any significant difference in the year that's coming. What I want to say is that although millions of millions are injected into cultural life in Norway, it is probably the most enjoyable thing for cultural life itself and not for the users of cultural services. The red-green government is walking on enthralled paths and doesn't try to think new and innovative. The sitting government inherited a cultural message from the Bondevik II government, and the grips that are made are largely made after this old message. There is no red-green thread in cultural policy – nothing that will put a foothold on cultural history other than that you have given a tremendous amount of money. This is the last cultural budget of the red-green government before we have a new big shot. And what's left over? Well, a generous minister of culture who has given money to everyone, without it looking like there's been any plan in it. What new has the red-green government contributed in the last three years? Opera? No, no, no. It was started long before we received a government council from the Workers' Party. The cultural school bag? No, no, no. This was the proposal of the Progress Party in the previous period. Film bet? No, no, no. Norwegian film had claimed itself long before Giske sat in the Council of State chair. The party wants a living culture free of political governance and based on personal commitment and volunteering. The progress party has never claimed that people have equal tastes, or that people don't want variation and breadth in the offer. It's just most people who guarantee variation and breadth, regardless of what cultural education wants to serve from innovative impulses, ideas and aesthetic experiences. That's why we think it's a goal to get more out of the tax dollars that culture gets. Unfortunately, it is today a narrow cultural elite that determines the direction in which culture is to develop. This results in museums being full of art that no one can see, and the libraries get books no one will read. The cultural policy of the Advance Party is based on the value of creating as many experiences as possible. This is achieved by the fact that cultural providers adapt to their audiences, not by the fact that cultural providers struggle about who is the best person to get public money. The red-green government, on the other hand, has failed both the Soria Moria declaration, that is, the promises to the people, and not least they have failed the people by not following their promises. And then I think about volunteering. Nor in 2008 was VAT exemptions or VAT compensation introduced – it was not even assessed – as the Soria Moria Declaration says so beautifully. It may seem that the Council of State is more concerned with artists in all forms than with voluntary work. Now the Council of State will not talk about the fantastic billion to be given to the voluntary sector, because with all due respect, the same Council of State has removed DKK 3-5 billion from voluntary Norway through the automatic ban. It doesn't help to decorate the crumbs you give, once you've stolen the whole piece of cake. So let's now look forward to it. What are we looking at about innovation and visions from the red-green government next year? As far as I can see and read, it's nothing. You fill money bags all over Norway, but it's nothing new. From the point of view of the Progress Party, there is only a glare of measures already in place. Then it is good that the Progress Party is once again ahead. What action is it then that the Progress Party will make it possible for cultural life to exist even without too close ties to the state and the governments at all times? We are also proposing two funds this year to contribute to raising cultural life, albeit in our own way. One fund will strengthen voluntary teams and organisations in a completely different and new way compared to what the Government does. The return on this fund is targeted at activities for children and young people. We want to stimulate children and young people to participate in different cultural activities, and we want the return of the fund to reach people – all people. In addition to the fund I just mentioned, we also have the Culture and Nutrition Fund. The fact that culture is a business is no longer a discussion. Cultural enterprises market too many billions each year. Therefore, we want to stimulate artists in all genres to focus more on themselves as a business. We want a work community where one can have a common accounting and marketing part – simply a community that stimulates and inspires in line with those established, for example. in London, and which works perfectly well without State interference. The Fund may be used, inter alia: such measures. So a little bit about cultural memories. The Progress Party has argued for a number of years that cultural memories and traditions should be taken care of. The Progress Party has noticed that within the cultural budget as well, it is set at 10 million. kr to the Cultural Memory Year, and we are very happy about that. I hope that the Council of State will read the state budget and talk to the Council of Environmental States, which is, of course, the main responsibility for cultural memories, in terms of the fire safety of Bryggen in Bergen. Something has to be done here, and it has to be done quickly. We can't risk the Bryggen, with all its treasures, burning down because it's not safe enough. It would be a tragedy both for the city of Bergen and for Norway as a nation. There is also much else in the rehabilitation of our cultural memories, whether they are in museums or they are unique cultural memories. But that one of the richest countries in the world doesn't care and protect their cultural memories, I don't think the afterglow will understand. So finally a little bit about video. It's not the red-green government that's going to have the credit for filming going so well in Norway. The main reason is that the aid schemes for the film industry have changed, so that film production is more targeted at the public. The changes in aid schemes, together with the professionalisation and internationalisation of the industry, have led to far more Norwegian films being made in such an artistic way that they find a large and willing audience. The Norwegian film industry is in the forefront of a new idea of publicly supported culture, where it is about maximizing the cultural benefits you can produce for the community's money. The Progress Party will promote the industry, which is increasingly finding broad and narrow audiences, and is able to produce good films within an appropriate economic framework, which meet these audiences. At the same time, the industry has shown that it can attract skills and capital to new productions. The Progress Party believes that developments in the film industry show that market thinking also works very well in the cultural field.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1487	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1490	Every time I hear the representative Karin Woldseth in a cultural debate, I get the impression that she's actually a little tired because she represents a party that doesn't have a cultural policy. I have also had the pleasure of reading the comments of the Advance Party in the setting this year, and I record that they have a note that they recycle every year. They claim that having an active cultural policy, which the red-greens have, creates unity, as with the regime in North Korea. What I'm asking is, what is the policy of the red-green government that can be compared to North Korea? Is it that you are making arrangements for ordinary people to afford to go to the theater, something that the Progress Party obviously does not want, or is it that we are putting massive money into the film fund, so that next year there will be opportunities to get new, big movie successes? It would have been interesting to hear what the Progress Party thinks is so comparable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1497	First, I have to arrest the representative Gjul for what she said about the Progress Party having no cultural policy. Then she should read our programme, because we have a cultural policy – a cultural policy that I am very proud of. When it comes to why we're comparing the red-green government to North Korea, it's not very strange. In North Korea, you decide what people are allowed to read, what people are allowed to see, and what people are allowed to hear. We approach it, as the state presses all artists to its chest and almost keeps them alive. Then it is no longer the user who is allowed to choose what you want to hear and what you want to see, but it is the red-green government that decides for us – therefore the comparison.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1504	It can be quite depressing to listen to the People's Party's reference to culture. The Central Party has noticed that the Advance Party will cut close to $1 billion in its alternative budget, a dramatic reduction from a to. We also have great faith in voluntary forces, but to replace the fury of the Advance Party with the billion-sized cultural field with the 50-million puzzles. kr to volunteer, is not a believer. This, in our opinion, is a strong underestimation of what most people actually want. Who believes the Progress Party is ready to accept this money and offer cultural activities, once the party has destroyed the entire cultural value chain? And where will this popular cultural activity take place when the Progress Party cuts into the grant schemes for cultural houses, which are demanded by both professionals and amateurs throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1510	When we want to cut NOK 1 billion, I would like to remind the representative, Eia, that we do not need to go further than the 2005 budget until we are about where the Progress Party is. As far as I know, and as far as I remember back to 2005, there was an excellent cultural life in Norway in 2005, so I don't think she should worry about it. I don't think she needs to be particularly depressed either. The fact that the representative is depressed by reading our comments, we can in a way not do anything about it. But we are of the opinion that the comments we have, and the programme we have in the field of culture, are absolutely excellent, and we are absolutely sure that there are a lot of non-governmental organisations that are quite ready to accept and make an effort for Culture-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1517	The progress party enters to sell down NRK. The NRC has obligations in relation to Norwegian cultural heritage, language and identity; they have special obligations to produce narrow programmes, children’s and young people’s programmes, documentaries and should be well represented throughout the country with district missions. What consequences does Karin Woldseth think it would have if this generalcaster didn't get the framework conditions to operate that they have today? The Christian People's Party believes that we will then lose a cultural heritage, for which it is important to take care of and have good framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1522	I think the consequence will be that people will be able to dispose of their license money more, approximately. $2,500, free - to whatever they want. In addition, it is up to the government at all times to determine the concessions for those who are going to be public broadcasters, which actually any broadcaster can be. That's why there's no problem. You just have to include in the concessions – not everyone follows them – that there should be children's programmes, that you should take care of the cultural heritage, and that you should take care of the language. This doesn't have to go out on the listeners at all. The advantage we can see is that we get TV and radio that doesn't cost anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1529	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1532	The cultural budget of the year follows well-known political lines. There are significant increases within a wide range of measures and a distribution of relatively predictable tracks. With the exception of the Progress Party, I think there is a great deal of consensus about the increases in the cultural budget, not only this time, but also in particular with regard to the developments we have seen throughout this period. On the right, this effort is based on the political main lines strung out by the Bondevik II Government's Communication on Culture. It does well in and of itself also the government, even though the rhetorical clothes of the cultural vow have now been emphatically put on. The backbone of a stronger cultural policy is the demand of modern society for cultural activities, be it in the traditional sense or as part of a strong economic development in cultural industries. New lifestyles have created a climate for increased commitment to culture, and it is interesting to see in a longer perspective that one should not be so terribly far back in time until the attitude was completely different. Åse Kleveland said explicitly in his cultural message that there could be no increase in the cultural budgets in the years that were to come. Although the Right supports a significant state involvement through the cultural budget, it is clear that, unlike the Government, we are not indifferent to stronger government governance and state investment. In the Right’s eyes, the state’s extensive participation can concentrate power and contribute to widespread political correctness and less real diversity if one does not have a keen eye to how the money is snuffed out. The Minister of Culture’s recurring description of the ‘poor distance principle’ does not, in the Right’s view, remain as long as it is used in such a narrower way as we consider to underpin the political work of the Government. Norway is a small country, with a small market, and that means that we need to combat power concentration more actively and through structural intervention. The right therefore wants a clear, different course, where the key words are the spread of power and diversity. This is partly about organisation, the appointment of government representatives. Here we believe the state could limit itself to the largest state institutions. The dissemination of power is also about the elimination of state resources to recipients, and – not least – about the need for a wider range of sources of funding and decision-makers in the context of cultural life. The right-hand approach is illustrated by our strengthening of the central parts of the cultural budget by 30 million. kr. We want to strengthen diversity by strengthening the free groups and ensembles. This is done by strengthening the basic funding of established stage groups, the free performing arts grant scheme and the dance grant scheme. We believe it is important to pay particular attention to businesses that are jumping out of the immigrant communities, and this year, too, the Cosmopolite Foundation and the Nordic Black Theatre Foundation give an extra hand. We also believe it is very important to strengthen the links between cultural and business life. In this context, it is not primarily about economic development but about contributing to the emergence of arenas where cultural life is given new stimulating tasks and alternative ways of financing activities. We believe the Forum for Culture and Business is a good start, but believe that the state must help to build an organisation with a significantly higher level of ambition and a several more complex approach to how to work. Another way to spread power is also to look at those businesses that grow locally and regionally. Here, we believe that further strengthening of the regionally based film environment is an important step. The right also attaches great importance to the preservation and accessibility of our cultural heritage for all. A lot has been done in the ABM field in recent years, but the archive area seems to have slowed down. Many archives — not least the private ones — are today in a wretched constitution, and important parts of our collective memory may be lost. We have therefore added extra funds to the archives in this year's budget. This year, too, we have strengthened the area of folk culture, this time through the Riksscene for folk music and folk dance. Important parts of the field of culture are also part of volunteering. The right has signaled that we are in favour of a full VAT compensation scheme, and we have asked the Government in the remarks on the budget to facilitate this, so that new VAT rules can be introduced from the autumn onwards. The media area is a field of strong development. Technological convergence and digitisation are taking place and are giving new opportunities for faster communication and the development of new forms of communication – not to say platforms. Government policy is largely based on instruments from another time, not adapted to the digital future we are now looking into. It is a well-known case that the Right has limited belief in ownership regulation, and we still want another device to replace the traditional production grant for the newspapers – preferably with a roof and a flat model in relation to the current system, and also a system aimed at new establishments and editorial websites. We should perhaps have a public investigation into what was the original aims of the press support, namely the desire for diversity of opinion, real freedom of expression and stimulation of a vital public conversation, this time discussed on the basis of the media reality we are now living in, and the one we are seeing will come. Today, we see that evolution is bringing us all ever further into the digital generalization. Technological and content convergence is no longer just clichés about the future, but realities we deal with on a daily basis. An interesting feature of this is how the development of content genres also updates the importance of the media area to cultural life in general. The media are not just a matter of freedom of expression; the media area is also of great importance, for example, for the preservation of Norwegian languages. In this context, the right is concerned that in Norway we have the greatest possible production of content at home. In this context, the positioning of the different actors in relation to each other is already of great long-term importance. In this context, the right considers it appropriate to rely on maximum direct flow between the consumer and the content provider. All monopolistic trends should therefore be countered. For example, we see that some of the telecom actors are building business concepts based on closed solutions in the networks. In practice, this could develop monopolies in many places. Right now, it is important to give clear political signals that the digital generalisation of the future should be open. We have made proposals to investigate this, so that the actors can develop new business concepts in line with the open solutions as soon as this is technologically possible. Free flow of content will give consumers a better offer and it will stimulate Norwegian content providers to develop new products and produce Norwegian content. This is the only way we can secure a Norwegian home track in the digital generalization. The content of the volume to which it refers cannot be ensured by means of support schemes or other grants from the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1577	The representative Thommessen initially pointed out that the difference in this year's cultural budget goes between the Progress Party and the others. And that's something he's quite right in. But we are approaching elections, and it is natural to clarify what the possible new cooperative constellations will be like after the elections, because it will not least affect cultural policy. We registered as late as this weekend that the Right Leader at all did not intend to beat the hand of the Advance Party. At the same time, we know that with regard to fiscal policy, and perhaps even more so with regard to cultural policy, we find great distances between the Right and the Advance Party. I wonder how the Right believes that a common policy can be created with the Progress Party in these two areas. Is it perhaps that the Right Party is thinking of making cultural policy a balancing point in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1584	I think the Right will be the guarantor that we're still getting cultural stakes in the professional field in the future. At the same time, there is a point to see that there are actually some areas where we also have a lot in common with the Progress Party – in the field of cultural memory protection and in the area of volunteering, which are also two major areas that need to be strengthened. Now we should not start negotiations here, especially in such a context as this. Every coalition and any coalition negotiation is – what to say – an exercise in the art of camel selection. I don't know at least the representative Gjul, who has been trying this for some years now. In terms of part of the core of the cultural budget, this will probably be about some camels, but I don't really see it in the dark, if it were to be a current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1591	I was actually going to ask the representative about VAT compensation, but he actually mentioned it in his post. Is it the case that the representative from the Right will work actively to obtain a VAT exemption for non-governmental organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1596	Full VAT compensation, zero VAT, for non-governmental organisations one of the most important areas that volunteering itself has raised. What's great about that grip is that it works neutrally. So it turns out for all non-governmental organisations without any leadership from the state. An important part of the criticism we have against the Government in the field of voluntary policy is the elimination of money for concrete purposes which are seen to serve voluntary purposes and which are also identified with the political objectives of the red-green government. It was simply this that the volunteering message was – let's say – run off. Chapter after chapter one could read how volunteering would contribute to the implementation of the red-green policy in a number of completely price-worthy areas that I believe both the Advance Party and we want the sense of. Still, there's an approach that's going to be completely wrong for the Right. We want a neutral approach, and then the VAT compensation system is an excellent system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1603	Both the representative of the Right and the undersigned have been involved in some recent debates. The representative also said in his speech that when we dealt with the cultural message in 2003, the Right advocated future increases in the cultural budget. I have no faith that the Right Party had invested almost $2 billion in culture in these years. However, when said, the budgetary position on his main priorities states that he ‘shows in this context that Norway is now in a period of strong economic growth’. I don't think that's the reality most people have right now. He goes on to say that he ‘believes, in the light of social developments in general, that building up the cultural budget is correct and necessary’. Then I wonder – in these times, in the future and after the elections: Will the Right then give priority to the cultural promise of 1 pst., which he now says in many contexts?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1613	I have never said that we commit to 1 pst. I did not say that when we discussed the cultural message in 2003. But what I said was that we thought it was right with significant increases. It is linked to the fact that whole social development is moving in such a direction – culture is more important in very many contexts. Ideologically speaking, the Right is based on the belief that some core tasks must also be carried out with state aid in the cultural field. That's our approach. Those core tasks are spreading in our time. Clearly, we are in an economic downturn. How it will turn out is not good to say. In relation to the big grips of how society is put together, there is nothing to tell you to cut the cultural budget – it is not. I imagine that the cultural budget will evolve further. So I want a development where we get a greater diversity in decision-makers – not such a unilateral state focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1622	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1625	Just to have said this: SV believes that the focus on culture is even more important in times of decline. We're going to pay for it, if the voters let us do it. On 15 November I was invited to a large conference in Stockholm to talk about the cultural promise. The title of the seminar was: Red-Green Culture Policy – what can we learn from Norway. It was a good experience. Unlike the Progress Party, I believe that this cultural promise is extremely important. I spoke quite warm, I was proud, both of the red-green cultural promise and the promise we are now making. There were many artists and cultural politicians present who want to do the same in Sweden. They want to raise cultural policy to an important election campaign, as we did with the Cultural Promise in our election campaign. Last week I received an enquiry from our partners in Denmark about Norway's investment in the cultural school bag. They want to propose the same initiative in Denmark. We in this government are now providing a cultural policy that our neighbouring countries want to copy. They say: Look to Norway – what can we learn from Norway? This government has increased the cultural budget by nearly NOK 2 billion by implementing the escalation of the cultural promise. It's brilliant, and it means a lot to the development of art and culture all over the country. The strength and self-esteem of art and culture is an undervalued resource. We must ensure that the entire cultural field is a natural and integrated part of all areas of society and policy. The whole cultural field is strengthened at an overall level through the Cultural Promise, and increased allocations facilitate conditions to develop a wide range of cultural activities and diversity. It is important, as it was stressed when we adopted the Culture Act, that we should have the right to an equivalent offer of art and culture throughout the country. It assumes that the national cultural crowns are distributed throughout the country. Young artists, new expressions and new start-ups should therefore be given priority in the counties with little state-owned cultural crowns in the future. Of course, you can read Eastfold here, as one of them. Success from the Mangfold Year is followed up. Conditions need to be provided for good growth conditions, including for the arts and culture of minorities. The history of the cultural school system can also be summed up as a success story. In the cultural school system, children of all school ages are offered a wide range of cultural experiences. The red-green government is working purposefully to ensure social smoothing and inclusion. In this context, cultural schooling is an important tool for ensuring children’s opportunities for varied cultural experiences at a professional level. No matter where in the country a resident, no matter what the background, the cultural school bag now provides a cultural offer to all children. School leavers are now also being extended to upper secondary school students. This is, in the SV's view, an important step towards allowing the school allowance to apply to all children and young people, from kindergarten to high school. Public libraries are one of the most widely used public institutions, and are very important for strengthening and maintaining social and cultural cohesion. SV believes that the public libraries contribute to the promotion of knowledge development, cultural dissemination, democracy and freedom of expression. In the spring, the biggest issue is about to deal with its own big message about libraries, and we are pleased that the library policy is thus raised on the national political agenda. I would like to underline the importance of continuing the important work on gender equality in cultural policy. In many areas, there are still considerable differences between women and men and their opportunities. Finally, I will send a little Christmas present home, not a Christmas card. It is an extra appropriation now at the very end of the budget for Point Ø and Studium Actoris. This is an important recognition of the contemporary art intermediary and the free theatre group in Eastfold, alongside all the good cultural resources that had already been granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1651	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1654	The representative May Hansen boasts a lot of the cultural school bag. Now it's probably the way that the cultural school bag is funded by the profits of Norwegian Typing. We hear about Norwegian Tipping's ever-anxious messages that they're not going to get close to the profits they've had. Then I wonder, what does the May Hansen representative intend to do if the funding of the cultural school bag is reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1661	Clearly, the school bag is funded by tippers. It was on the basis of a proposal from the Progress Party, SV and the Workers' Party. We are happy that we have done so. We would never have gotten such an increase in this field in the previous period, if we hadn't. I am very pleased that the Progress Party supported us in. That being said, it is clear that the school sack has come to stay. We're following developments with Norwegian Typing all the time. If it turns out that the school sack is getting less money, we also have a cultural promise that becomes formidable in the future. The school slip has come for SV to stay. It shall be financed in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1668	After the slot machines have disappeared, the turnover of the bingo machines has exploded. SV has had a strong commitment to getting rid of the slot machines. No Marte Thorkildsen stated in a TV debate at TV2 that she wanted to go further than Trond Giske when it came to the bingo machines. Will SV take the challenges of the game problem seriously and be involved in supporting a proposal to get rid of the slot machines in bingo rooms, machines that many professionals say are more aggressive and addictive than the other machines that we have had and that we know led to many social problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1675	SV takes gaming policy seriously. That is why, in the last period, we made proposals to remove the machines. The previous Council of State did an excellent job, which has been continued during this period – it has intensified even more. What we have said on the SV's side is that aggressive games that lead to gambling addiction, we shouldn't have. There are different games that we have to evaluate all the time. The odds are quite aggressive, for example. From our point of view, we have told the Council of State that this must be followed closely. I'm not very happy with the bingo machines either. I guess that's what Magnar Lund Bergo, the previous representative from SV. But this we follow up in close cooperation with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1682	The Soria Moria Declaration states: ‘Cultural policy must actively facilitate cultural enterprise development.’ I'll be very short. What concrete action has the red-green government taken to facilitate cultural-based business activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1692	I believe that culture is nourishment in many ways. No matter where you go in this country, you see that you work together as a result of the cultural promise. Think of the film parks and the media parks, for example: In Eastfold we have several areas where nutrition and museums work together. I believe that the entire cultural promise has given a boost to culture-based nutrition and cooperation with both business and municipalities. I said initially that this is a formidable promise that means an incredible amount to Norway, and that means jobs all over the country, not least for young artists and cultural workers, who now can actually live and live through the cultural school bag where they come from. This committee has two huge happy messages to give to the Norwegian people. It is the cultural promise, and it is the welfare reform for kindergartens. That's where we've both been, to put it like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1701	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1705	With an increase of 786.5 million. The parties to the Government are once again putting forward a budget that is historically good. The growth, compared to the current year's budget, is a total of 10.2 p.m., a budget that was also historic. The center part is especially pleased that the cultural promise is on track, and that a total of 748.3 million. kr of the increase goes for that purpose. 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes by 2014. Since this government joined, the total central cultural effort has increased by NOK 1.9 to 2 billion. The increases are channelled through major efforts within a wide range of cultural fields and to the joy of cultural life throughout the country. Art and culture have great self-esteem. At the same time, cultural focus is of great importance to other societal goals such as business development and jobs, integration and inclusion, health, learning and creativity. We're going to develop Norway into a leading cultural nation that focuses on culture in all parts of society. During this period of growth, we have introduced a historic shift in the pace of art, culture and volunteering, both through the issues promoted by the Stortinget, and not least by following up this with a historical increase in the state allocations in the cultural field. The centre party has a very big heart for volunteering. We are therefore pleased that the Government is proposing to increase grants for voluntary measures over the Ministry of Culture and the Church budget, with a total of 56.5 million. kr next year. In addition, the contribution to voluntary measures is increased by 8 million. kr through budgetary decisions. S. No 1 for 2008-2009. The Free Fund scheme will increase by a total of 13 million. kr in 2009, something we in the Center Party are particularly pleased about. We are therefore following up important actions announced in the voluntary service. It concerns both the economic impact on different actors and the technical design of new rules. From this government’s assumption, the budget for voluntary measures has increased by nearly 63pst. Value added issues are an important issue of interest policy for an overall voluntary sector. The models and proposals referred to by the Committee on Culture in its decision-making will, in the opinion of the Centre Party, have no impact on the voluntary teams and the non-profit-making work of organisations, but only on those cultural institutions which have a certain turnover and hold a professional organisational apparatus. The centre party responds impatiently to the notified review of the allocation of VAT costs among different voluntary sector organisations. We believe that this will provide a necessary basis for the establishment of a new VAT regime for the sector, in line with the Government's Soria Moria Declaration, which announces a change in the VAT regime in the voluntary sector. The government will strengthen the voluntary sector economy by DKK 1 billion in the coming government budget and will outline different ways of implementing it. The parties argue that the voluntary sector economy should be strengthened both through increased State budget grants and through a shift in the VAT system, where non-governmental organisations are treated in the same way as industrial activities as regards exemptions from VAT on the purchase of goods and services. The centre lot records the opposition's involvement in the case. When the Central Party today will not vote in favour of the opposition's proposal, it is expected that the announced review will allow the Stortinget to address this VAT question by the end of the current accumulation period. The centre party is pleased that the volunteer register is now in place. This voluntary register will be a useful tool in the management of a new VAT system, but of course also in the distribution of grassroots shares. Consequently, the centre party is pleased that the grass root fraction is introduced in 2009 and has high expectations that this scheme will provide local teams with badly needed resources that will allow the realisation of increased activity and priority projects locally. The parties to the Government indicate that the cultural budget will be dealt with on the basis of the framework laid down in the draft budget of the Government of the parties. In addition, we would like to remind you that the opposition parties have not joined the Cultural Promise, but rather have chosen to give priority to tax relief over an offensive effort on art, culture and volunteering on the same scale as the Government. Consequently, the opposition's comments in this setting cannot be seen as a real expression of the opposition's priority of cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1724	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1727	It is good that the Center Party is committed to voluntary teams and organizations, but I have to admit that the Christian People's Party has been disappointed because we had expectations that something would happen when it comes to VAT and voluntary teams and organizations. The mandate of the VAT Committee, which the Ministry of Finance put down, was limited to looking at the realities of voluntary teams and organisations. The centre party expressed expectations for this in several debates, but so far nothing has happened in concrete terms. That's why I'm very uncertain – when you've seen a selection down, it was out of your mandate there, and now there's a vague signal in the budget – whether we can expect a concrete case with a concrete content. Voluntary teams and organizations are very busy, because they feel that the government has come with great expectations, but in this area a failure has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1734	The centre party will not disappoint the voluntary sector in respect of the commitments made in respect of a VAT compensation scheme. But here and now I see no reason to instruct the Government to present anything within a certain time, as long as it is already announced in the proposition that one will come back to the matter. As I said, I have expectations and confidence that it will happen before this big period is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1741	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1744	The left has put forward its alternative state budget, and I can assure the Stortinget, and the representative of the Central Party, that we stand for an overall set of absolutely all the points. I have five minutes to present our main bets. The biggest investment in the alternative cultural budget of the Left is the investment in libraries. We don't do what SV is waiting for the future, and we also have a different angle of incidence to what the library is. The library is not only the things that SV's representative framed in his post, the library is also a very important piece in an information society to address the modern challenges facing this society. That is why we have wanted to extend both the purchasing system for the case procedure and the purchasing system for the school library – both in primary and secondary schools – and we have put in a number of individual measures, ranging from the multicultural library to library development. We need some of those engines, and we need someone who's involved in raising the libraries of a modern information society. We have shown that how we can do within the framework of this year's budget. In that context, I would like to mention that there is a great deal of consensus that we have the opportunity to promise our great dramatist, Jon Fosse. I think it's very exciting that Oslo is going to build a new, big main library, and that several of Oslo's cultural politicians have said that they can do a Fosse bet together. It would have been exciting both for the nation, for Norwegian drama and for Oslo. The left has also a concern related to another budget which I must say intervenes in this budget, and which I believe we have not included in the big picture. That's the concern of our art education. It is linked to the grant policy, to the lack of research in this area and to the lack of the economy of the institutions. I think it's a weakness of the cultural promise that you can't see the whole thing between the art education and the art bet. In addition, the Left wishes for the nth time to lift the multicultural organisations and institutions, and we find it strange that it has not been possible in the Year of Man to just raise the institutions to a level of subsidies similar to the national Norwegian-ethnic organisations. But we are pleased that we have at least received some support for comments related to new institutions such as the Young People's Factory, which is a very exciting job, and to a large part of the proposals and comments regarding Snelda. The left has also brought a boost to popular music, and we are concerned about the development of the Riksscenen. We have also wanted to show that we want security for it already in this budgetary procedure. We also have a boost in museums, and in cultural memory protection. The cultural memory fund has been given several tasks under this government, but not the corresponding money. I think we have to look at that in this context, sail if it's also in another budget. Finally, I was actually supposed to brag by the Government, but then I was a little surprised at the committee reading. The left has put forward proposals in the former state budget for an actress’s alliance – that is, making a pool of actors and dancers – which makes it possible to use several of them more creatively. We have also promoted this because it can be a great opportunity for many actors and dancers who are getting closer to retirement, to be used more on Norwegian scenes. We have put forward proposals on this before. We've been down to that, but we were really excited when we found that this is something that the Council of State wants to work on. But we were very concerned when we commented on this during the committee reading, where the government parties did not want to support this remark. I think we need to think more long-term about the use of dancers and actors, and more creatively, and that the institutional thinking that we've had on the employment policy here has led to little creative solutions. So here I have to say that I am positively surprised by the Council of State and a little skeptical about the government parties in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1770	There are many older people who use cultural institutions and cultural services diligently. But then there's also someone who doesn't live near the cultural offerings, and who isn't so mobile that they can make use of what's available. So the government has added 20 million. The budgets of the two departments for what we call the Cultural Spaserstick, for cultural activities for the elderly. There are municipalities around the country that dispose of the money on application. I have visited institutions that have had the kind of visit offer, and it is very successful. I was a little surprised when I realized that the Left and the Right would not go into that comment and spend money on this kind of cultural effort. You add 5 million. kr to the voluntary sector that can take care of this. Are there any political, principal or other reasons why the Left will not go ahead of this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1779	Thank you, this gave me an opportunity to say that there are actually quite fundamental attitudes that make us want to spend the money that way. We know that old people are big consumers in many areas, but some people don't have access to culture. The question is, how are we going to help that group? I don't think that group will be helped with large organisational applications and big bureaucracy. Today we see that the vast majority of the money, according to the Pensioners' Association's figures presented in our hearing, disappears in the bureaucracy. We want them to be spent on culture, and therefore we want to remove the bureaucratic intermediary, drive the money out to the organizations, so that they can help create the cultural experiences that older people need. Because we're concerned about the experiences, not the bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1786	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1789	On 1 April 2004 the Red-Green Parties presented their proposals for a cultural promise. In 15 points we described how we would give cultural policy in Norway a completely different position, a completely different concrete approach, with promises, strategies and goals, and a capacity for implementation that would give culture a great boost. At that time we met here in the hall with words like surrender, irresponsible, a little serious, unrealistic. This was a pure opposition policy that would never be put to life. Now, after four budgets with a red-green government, it's time to settle the situation. At the time in 2004, we calculated the cultural promise to be about SEK 1.5 billion to achieve the goal of 1 pst. of the State budget — that is what was offered. Today, we have increased the cultural budget by nearly SEK 2 billion in less than half of the time up to 2014. It can almost not be overestimated how much change this is in relation to the policy of the Bondevik government. Just to describe it, in the 2009 budget, where we're increasing by 786 million. kr, we have a real growth that is more than twice as large in one year as the Bondevik government's four budget proposals from 2002 until the 2006 budget – i.e. one year's growth is more than twice that of four years' overall yellow-blue policy for culture in Norway. That's right, as I think the representative Woldseth described, that everyone gets more. The budget for culture means that we are strengthening all sectors. We strengthen the music, the orchestras, the focal points festivals, the centres of expertise for rhythmic music, we strengthen the stage art. That's an increase of 140 million. kr. Only the Opera alone will receive an increase in 2009 of 40 million. kr. We're strengthening the fixed scenes. We're strengthening the open field. We are strengthening the regional opera and theatre effort, and a huge boost is also being given to national cultural buildings with 141 million. in appropriations. The 2008 census was between 30 and 40 million. kr in increase in 2008. All the money will continue in 2009. Language messaging is followed up by concrete actions and purchasing systems, the first steps towards a national language base, and library services are strengthened. The museums are followed up as never before, with a total increase of over 100 million. SEK 39 million. kr set aside for the consolidation processes. We're going to keep going on film. I remember the first budget we laid out. Then the film industry was over 15 million. kr in increase. In 2009 we increased the film budget by 50 million. kr. We're strengthening NRK as our main public broadcaster. We make sure that the broadcasting licence can give us a broad and good public broadcasting, which is more necessary than ever when commercial competition is greater than before. And volunteering gets its worth, with an increase of 55 million. kr. My question is, when the opposition – at least some of them – is partly satisfied, but also perhaps a little critical that we are not doing enough, why didn't you do this when you were in government? Why didn't you increase the film budget by 150 million? kr, but cut it by 17 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Why not make a film report and restructure the instruments and make an offensive effort? Why didn't you increase the theater appropriations by 100 million? kr, but provided a few years for real decline in the framework conditions for theaters and orchestras? Why was the money promised to be consolidated after several years? Why didn't you strengthen the museums with hundreds of millions of dollars that we've done? Why did not the Left introduce a year of diversity and provide the 37 million? kr to diversity, but kept the great world, Cosmopolite and all these for which one now speaks so warmly, with good words and no money? Why didn't you come up with a scene art report? Why didn't a language message be made to strengthen the Norwegian language? Why didn't you create a library message? Why didn't you go through the sector by sector? Instead, one message of culture was made, out of objective, out of concrete promises, and out of concrete strategies for raising culture. It is often more difficult to sit in position than in opposition. But with the bourgeois parties, it's the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1805	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1808	In the last period, I had the pleasure of sitting with the Council of State on the Culture Committee, and when Minister of Culture Svarstad Haugland increased his account from 5 million. NOK 10 million. He was extremely critical of this increase and the Council of State was in opposition. Now, the Council of State has increased its allocation accounts to nearly 40 million. kr. Why is it more legitimate and more necessary to have large accounts now than it was when Svarstad Haugland was Minister of Culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1813	It's simply because we've started so many different, big reform processes that we need a bigger buffer to take the unforeseen costs. When one has written as many big messages in one year as the previous government made in four, it goes without saying that change processes, restructurings, investigations and evaluations, such things that come about gradually in a reform process, become much bigger. We have also had a Løken committee working on proposals for quite major restructurings in the field of culture. We have processes with the working time contracts in the orchestras where we try to get more out of the resources we put in, etc. Let me also use this opportunity to arrest something that was said earlier. It was said by Molvær Grimstad that cultural life was just as happy to get the money at the cross post as to get them in Stortinget. My argument was the opposite. It's not to make cultural life happy that we take it at the crossroads. Then we might as well have taken it by regular mail, because they would have been equally happy if we had taken it here in the hall, but that's because we need money for unforeseen expenses during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1822	I noticed that the Council of State did not talk so much about media policy. There may not be the room for the panegyrian twists the same size as the rest, but I'm now trying anyway. We haven't had a discussion here in this room about network connectivity, i.e. open networks, the principle of transparency in communicating TV images and other material, because we've seen a tendency for some of those who work with the cables or the suppliers to monopolize their deliveries through closed solutions. In that debate there was quite a difference between the Navarsete Government and the Gunn Karin Gjul Labour Party. I discovered that Gunn Karin Gjul in a completely different way really had a pretty positive approach to going a little bit into that problem, to add to it that you could imagine doing an investigation of the concepts that need to be in order to get to a better transparency. Will the Council of State take this and work after those lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1829	Let me first give full support to the representative Thommessen's view of the representative Gjul. It is also my impression that she is both insightful and has a positive attitude. I share many of the objectives that I know the representative Thommess has on this with freedom of choice, that as a customer you should be able to experience not having finished packages sewn together, but should be able to make individual choices. But then we also know that unfortunately we haven't gotten there completely on distribution yet that this necessarily gives the best result for the customer, because those who distribute are dependent on having a certain amount of channels to distribute and a certain amount of customers who take larger packages. So I think we really share the goal here, but it's a practical question to get it to. I also believe that the development of Riks TV, which has three distribution platforms in addition to satellite and cable, will lead to an even better offer for the audience and viewers. But we're going to follow this up, and we're going to do it as well as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1843	I want to ask a question that is not really about something that the Council and I share the opinion of in the conclusion, but where I think we agree that something needs to be done, and this is about the copyright law. I'm wondering a little bit about how the council thinks. He has now started a work on the copyright law, but is very critical of having a public investigation. There have been huge changes since the copyright law was up here. That means we have to have a change, and I think it would have strengthened the process very much if we had a public investigation. I wish the Council of State could have said that he wanted a broad investigation, so we hadn't made sure that it was the enlightened exclusivity that was the decisive method when it came to such an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1850	These are good arguments for a NOU on the copyright law, including: This is to get a wide-ranging sample. You get a long process, and you get a lot of people involved. The disadvantage of that approach is that it is also very time consuming. We think that this should arrive at Stortinget as a legislative change and a review earlier than a NOU process would have facilitated. However, we should try to get as inclusive a process as possible with opportunities for different parties with important points of view to make their input. That is the way we have worked in all the other cases we have put before the Storting, whether there have been large and extensive messages, or whether there have been legal cases. The fact that we need reform is clear. Some works of art include: which is not well covered in today's copyright. New technologist makes us have to meet the challenges in new ways. So we're going to work on this and come back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1855	I would like to address a topic on which there is a comment in the budget position, and which I have so far spoken about in my post, and that concerns fire safety and insofar as the protection and preservation of museum collections. The Soria Moria Declaration also states that: ‘follow the adopted archive, library and museum escalation plan and start work on a plan for securing and preserving the museum collections’.» I have to take a little trip home to my hometown, Bergen, where Bryggen was exposed to fire. Fortunately, this was not the part of Bryggen where the Hanseatic Museum is – this time. But we know that the entire historical part and part of the world heritage like Bryggen is very poorly secured. I wonder if the state council has some progress plan for both the archive, library and museum escalation plan and a plan for securing and preserving the museum collections.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1867	Now cultural memory protection is strictly another state council's responsibility, but I'm still going to answer the question as best I can. Firstly, all the tens and hundreds of millions of dollars that we have invested in the museum sector will, of course, help them when they have to find room for fire safety measures in their operating budget. When I was in Bergen right after the fire, I was confronted with the fact that the state had to go further. It was the City Council’s response – from the Advancement Party and the Right – that there was a lack of state resources. Then it turned out that there was a state aid scheme. I think it's about 30 million. kr. That was not enough, we were told from Bergen. So it turned out that when the application deadline expires, Bergen has not applied for funds! It's not just always pointing at the state, you have to do the job yourself. The scheme we have put in place – it is now under the Ministry of the Environment – in order to implement individual measures on fire protection is an important scheme, but local owners must also take responsibility. We've seen some terrible fires in the last few days. We know we can do more on fire protection, even in the case of cultural historical memories, so that's where we have to work together. But it's a local responsibility for the owners to take these grips locally, and we're going to set up with government money where it's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1878	Then is the last replicator May-Helen Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1882	Now I was excited if I could get a line, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1887	It's Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1890	Sounds like the only government council is missing by Christmas now, is an angel choir! There are many Korenthusiasts dreaming about a professional choir. If the Council of State wants to address the challenges, then the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have a proposal where we want to ‘outlined models for the establishment and operation of a professional choir. It is assumed that such a choir should have institutional prerequisites for carrying out stable artistic activities in line with the professional orchestras». There are a lot of countries that have a professional choir, but it doesn't have Norway. Many Korenthusiasts hope that we will get it to land here as well. I hope that the Council of State if he doesn't get his own angelic choir, at least will contribute to a work that can ensure that we get a professional choir.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1900	I hope at least that the committee chairman thinks it is a little too early that I shall end up in the situation that I shall listen to angelic choirs! I also want to say, because this is probably the last time we meet in such a budget debate, that I have appreciated the cooperation we have had. Now we don't need any new investigations. There's been an investigation into professional choirs. I know that very well, because my mother was in the sample a few years ago. The problem is that there's a fire in the cows' camp, I was going to say. There are many different perceptions of how such a professionalisation effort is to be carried out. First of all, we have a professional choir in Norway. It's the Opera Choir, attached to the Norwegian Opera, but the goal is to get one more. Do you want to bet on an already established choir, which has the means to develop in a professional direction? Do you have to set up a whole new choir that gathers people from different environments, or are you going to gradually professionalize several of the choirs that exist? This is what the cross-world discussion about. And until we get some conclusions there, it's kind of hard to know what strategy to apply. But the goal of increasing the professional cor-environment in Norway is, I absolutely share with the committee leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1913	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1916	Although this budget area is not the most extensive in numbers of areas being debated in the Stortinge these weeks before Christmas, it is certainly rich in good content. Culture itself has a self-esteem, but at the same time culture has an impact on all other policy areas, such as economic development, integration and inclusion, health and learning. Culture is the impressions, experiences and well-being that contribute to the quality of life. When culture-based economic development becomes areas of activity for municipalities and counties, it does not mean that there is a desire to commercialise all cultural activities. There is a need for new business development, and cultural activities have a high growth potential, which we also have good assumptions in Norway for extracting. Now that a crisis package is being prepared for the new year in which Kommune-Norway is invited to propose projects that offer employment effects and lasting values across the whole country, it is worth reminding us all of the values of the cultural area. Some of the crisis-packaging effects should as far as possible come from cultural projects that provide good synergies in the development of local communities as well as large-scale society. It is not obvious that priorities are given in areas that contribute to the wider development of society, such as cultural activities, rather than providing, for example: treasure bill. The cultural promise is the result of a long-term political commitment to culture that was launched by the Red-Green parties already at the time of the 2004 Culture Communication. The red-greens prioritize culture because in the next round it provides both value creation and quality of life. Through a conscious effort and policy, the red-greens have introduced a historic shift in the focus on art, culture and volunteering, which has made concrete progress, among other things. through the 2008 Mangfold Year, culture for all and volunteering. This shows the overall increase in the central cultural effort since the accession of the government of Stoltenberg, which is close to DKK 2 billion, as well as a historical budget proposal for 2009. The total budget of the Ministry of Culture and the Church is increased by well over 700 million. kr, which is for the follow-up to the Cultural Promise. The initiative is widely fanned, and local communities and regions have good ring-fenced effects from allocations. As an example, I will mention that Norway's national poems and first Nobel Prize winner Bjørnster Bjørnson's home, Aulestad in Gausdal, will be central to the 2010 marking of the 100th anniversary of the death of the poet. Marking the Bjørnson Year will be an important national event. There is also a unique opportunity to refurbish the dictatorship home for wider use and access. The start-up and restoration of the Aulestad plant through the Government’s proposal to allocate 17,5 million. kr will provide repair of the main house. In addition, EUR 3.5 million was granted in 2008 to complete the work with the boys' room. A dissemination arena and a cultural heritage will be preserved for the future. At the same time, restoration and employment projects are being undertaken. Important jobs and competences in the cultural field within the country are safeguarded by this effort. And culture's self-esteem becomes a resource for society, as the red-greens use their policies. The vision behind the cultural promise is precisely to raise the status of culture as a social and political area, and with it to develop Norway as a leading cultural nation focusing on culture in all parts of society. The commitment to culture through the Year of Man has also given more status, but most of all has made more content, opportunities and values clear. The same applies to volunteering. Volunteering is a cornerstone of good social and active communities. There has been Christmas in the foyer here today, and volunteering is in many ways like a good meal: all the ingredients have their function to make it all good for the individual of us. Each of these ingredients are good and important – but it's the composition and the community it brings, which gives us the good and excellent result. The result of volunteering in Norway is worth $10 billion, but volunteering cannot be replaced by crowns, because we will lose significant shares it brings, such as the commitment and social life of all our communities. A key role of the authorities in voluntary policy is to provide predictable framework conditions through allocations, the organisation of capital injections and cultural facilities and arenas as a basis for preserving the future voluntary nature. The red-green government has taken this seriously and has provided a historical increase in appropriations, while the 2007 voluntary service is the most comprehensive ever. Finally, I would like to highlight the need for voluntary action to be taken also in budgets after 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1933	More than 780 million. kr is the increase in the cultural budget from last year. More than DKK 8 billion goes this year for cultural purposes – a formidable increase and a formidable sum. This increase is also due to a considerable increase in the total government budget. In this context, a good idea could have been that it would be easy to take some financial rest cuts in relation to the plan of escalation of the cultural promise. But it does not, and it tells us something about the power of the cultural promise and the political will that exists to carry it out. We're on track to realize that 1 pst. by 2014 at the latest, of the cultural budget. And we have great hopes that next year we will be given a renewed mandate to complete the promise from 2005. It's good to know that we're going to be able to meet our voters and see them in our eyes and prove that we're delivering. For we deliver in all areas, not only economics, but also structural changes to help ensure a stable framework for cultural life, structures to ensure the independence of cultural life, which will ensure the provision of both the narrow and the broad public. Through its own cultural law, the cultural area is elevated and promoted as a policy area for which the public has a responsibility: the context is such that different cultural expressions develop that cultural offerings are available to all that cultural workers are given the opportunity to develop and present their art that the cultural diversity of Norway is reflected in different cultural activities; Organisational changes and increased appropriations for Norwegian films have increased the number of film productions and audiences. Through the purchasing systems, support for venues and local organisers, festivals, transport and programme development, the availability of the audience and the working conditions of the musicians have improved. The same is true of the dancers. For other free-scene groups, too, arrangements have been made to ensure more predictability. The cultural school bag and the cultural walking stick are instruments that help many to experience professional art and create jobs for artists. The cultural school bag is extensive, and many enjoy the experiences it gives. I also hope that the cultural spaser can be of great importance and enjoyed many older people. If the goal of making art and culture most accessible to people, it is assumed that cultural workers and artists convey it to us. If we believe that cultural and art experiences enrich our everyday lives, and that such experiences should be made available, we must take the consequences. The time is past when one can expect the artists to starve themselves through a life dedicated to art. If culture is to be given the place we want in our society, it also demands that cultural workers be guaranteed predictability and a work that is viable. A number of the reforms and measures taken are important steps in this direction, but we still have a job to do in terms of the working conditions and predictability of artists. The cultural commitment has not been completed with this budget. We want to go further, and we have great faith that, through renewed confidence from the voters, we will have the opportunity to continue the vision and implement the cultural promise towards 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1970	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1973	I couldn't stop myself! I had to take part in this debate. That time, as an SV member of the family and culture committee, I proposed 1 pst. by the state budget for cultural activities under the Ministry, I was met by the fact that this was totally unrealistic and irresponsible. It was also the tone when the red-green parties made the same proposals in the setting of the Culture Communication, on which the Council of State was involved. An offensive government and an offensive state council are now implementing the Cultural Promise. It leads to – and has led to – a richer art and cultural life, and is, of course, setting its own good example. The international initiative is part of the cultural promise. When Norwegian artists get out, they not only profile Norway in a good way, but new impulses develop cultural life here. This applies not least to cooperation with artists in developing countries. Look at Mela's cooperation! Look at the Academy of Art in Ramallah and the theatre and the author's centre in Kabul! I experienced Ramzi at the Ultima concert in the fall, the boy who threw the stone that triggered the first intifada in Palestine. Today Ramzi is a famous violinist and runs the music school Al Kamandjati in refugee camps. Music for everyone, he says, will change the future, will give kids the opportunity to express dreams and feelings in ways other than throwing rocks. Cultural cooperation with developing countries based on equivalent meetings and mutual respect is an enrichment for both parties. I am quite sure that the Minister for Culture, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development are cooperating on this. The cultural promise shall continue to develop over the next period. That's what the red-green parts are supposed to do. Let me point to a couple of areas. First of all, we have to get a cultural school lift. After the previous government lifted the maximum price cap and added the State contributions to the framework grant, several municipalities have offered and/or added to the price. It hits those kids who don't have parents with the well-kept wallet or books in the living room. And it affects kids with ethnic minority backgrounds. SV proposes a new maximum price in the work programme, but more is required. Cultural schools need to be given greater opportunities to develop as centres of excellence in municipalities. The second is the library offer. Like May Hansen, I look forward to a message that promises the public libraries. I would like to remind you of mobile library services as a valuable offer that increases diversity and literacy. I visited the book bus Soria Moria in North Hordland a while ago. It really represents an adventure. But for the adventure to last, some new grip is required. The third is the museum field. As the jury leader of this year's museum for several years, I am impressed by the work done in the museums. What we now have to deal with is a planned fuse of the collections. I'm proud of the Cultural Promise. It commits and inspires further efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e1992	I wanted to do a three-minute post on this with choirs. We're getting close to Christmas, and it's hay season for Christmas concerts. We have a lot of good choirs in Norway that drive at a high level, and that travel both domestically and abroad. By increasing the state support for these, giving more added value, one can do more professionalising choirs, including the existing choirs that we have today. We can't let an outing in the 1980s – which is even more so with a localization debate that left one untapped – stop making new arrangements. The Opera Choir is tied up to the Opera and the activities that are there. When the Council of State says that there is a fire in the core's camp, I thought it would be a little siding, because I think it's important to move on with these challenges. We need a new spearhead that can be an inspiration for many people who are drifting within the field, and a new cultural policy institution. We're missing the top of the pyramid when we don't have a professional choir in Norway today, except what we have in the Opera. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State will seize the opportunity and set out to set out models for the establishment and operation of a professional choir. Otherwise, since this is the last budget debate, I'll be able to thank you for the cooperation that we have, and hope everyone gets a Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2003	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2007	I think I have to deal with some misunderstandings – or possibly actions that are not known. This is relevant in relation to the representative Molvær Grimstad now said. In fact, this government has lifted the cor field, both through the ensemble support and through adding 4 million. kr to the Norwegian Cultural Council for the testing of models for the professionalisation of choirs. Then we have not said in advance the professionalization of one choir, but the professionalization of choirs. The conclusion once you've done this investigation can be both one and more choirs, and there may be a lot of different ways to professionalize choirs. What's absolutely certain, and what the council was also about, is that there are very few choirs who want the kind of models that orchestras have, to have full-time singers. A choir like the Norwegian Soloist Choir, for example, – a very good choir, perhaps one of the best in the country – has singers who have many different assignments, including soloist missions. They need and want another type of model to become professional even more than they are today, but this is what the Norwegian Cultural Council needs to figure out and conclude. Then I expect that we will have the opportunity to say something about it here in the Storting even when they have done their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2018	Just a few words about volunteering, since many of the opposition parties were involved. Firstly, since the change of government, we have made a real change of pace in the policy of volunteering, and the opposition has been opposed to almost everything we have done in that area. The cultural promise is in itself a great voluntary promise – volunteering is a separate point in the cultural promise. All four opposition parties voted against the Cultural Promise in due course. The typing key, which was changed in the last period, and which the three Bondevik government parties opposed, has led to an enormous increase in volunteering, among other things. through Freefonds, Cultural Buildings and not least the Cultural School Bag. Compensation for the loss of automatic income, as some of the opposition complains about today, said the Bondevik government in its budget in the autumn of 2005 could be deleted because money had been made so well in the last years with vending machines after the ban had actually been imposed. The game terminals, which now ensure compensation, have all the opposition parties in different variants been critical to or against. We have provided for VAT and tax relief for voluntary activities. Within the Bondevik government and the 30 billion of the Advance Party in tax laws, there was never time or space for that kind of relief. The Voluntary Register is in place at the request of the volunteer itself. A total opposition went against it. Collection control is en route — also a desire from volunteering. The opposition was opposed. So now also comes the grassroots fraction: one of the things that brings together Freedom Norway is looking forward to channeling at least up to several hundred million dollars, potentially up to half a billion, to the grassroots level of volunteering. Once again, a total opposition is opposed. After all, it must be almost a frightful scenario for volunteering to get the bourgeois parties back into government position. But then you've found one thing, and that's the value added tax. Well, first of all, you could have done something about this too, if you were so keen on it, while you were in government, but here again, it's the government parties as in the 2009 government budget in the Ministry of Finance's proposition that the government wants to spend $1 billion to solve this challenge. We're going to work on how to do this. We have announced that we will bring it back in the 2010 budget at the latest, but we are also working to look at opportunities to come up with that matter even earlier. So this is something we're concerned about. Once again, it will be the red-green parties that provide a good voluntary policy, which is concrete, and where one spends money: DKK 1 billion in compensation in 2009 – half this year – for the automatic income, and thus a new voluntary billion in relation to the VAT question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2041	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three, four. [[Votation, see pages 1530, 1559, 1560 and 1561]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2059	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1562]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2077	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1562]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2095	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1562]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2113	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1562]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2131	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1562]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2149	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1562]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2166	Most of the things that should be said are actually said in the finance debate that we had a few weeks ago, so I'm not going to go this very far compared to the time I have. I will follow up the President's previous admonition today and try to stop when I am done. But dy and salty, I have to say that we have a good government, a government that, first of all, has put forward a budget that is expansive, that will lead us to do something in relation to building multiple roads, building more schools and building more swimming pools, and that has presented some action packages afterwards to meet the international financial crisis in which we are up. Because in Norway we have not really come to the crisis, at least not yet, and we must hope that the situation we have come up with will be as sensitive as possible. But it is important to have a government that offensively follows up on the job it is going to do. So, of course, the opposition has its problem. But it can't be easy to sit in opposition when it's like business and industry say they're very happy with what the government has put forward now. They have a government that has said that it sees the seriousness of the situation, and that it will come back with new packages of measures to try to keep unemployment as low as possible. I initially said that we had a good budget, and that there were several package measures. This is particularly important in relation to the export industry. So for Norway with its open economy, to get a purchasing power that allows us to trade goods, to have an export industry that makes sure we get that purchasing power. I am therefore very pleased that the Government in the budget and in the packages it has included, and what it announces, emphasises that the export industry is getting the best possible framework conditions within the framework available, so that we do not get an unnatural descalement of the industry due to the situation, which is more serious outside Norway than in Norway. With that, I would just recommend the vote by the majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2177	The representative Rolf Terje Klungland then gave an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2180	After listening to the representative Klungland, one would almost say: as surely as amen in the church. But as far as I heard, it was not as much as affected the setting itself, so I intend to record it. Expenditure related to the administration of public Norway continues to increase every year in addition to wage and price increases. 2009 is no exception. Despite increasing budgets, we find that every year the marginal expenditure increases are crucial to whether public agencies and supervision are able to carry out the job they are assigned to. This is a development that is not sustainable in the long term. The government parties know that, and the other opposition parties know that. Nevertheless, expenditure growth continues, and mercy to those who suggest that public administration should also be required to operate more rationally and fairly. The growth of public administration should concern more than the Progress Party, in particular because there is no incentive to reduce operating costs. The highly fragmented market mechanisms in the private sector mean that enterprises have a constant focus on rationalising and improving the efficiency of operations. They must have it in order to maintain competitiveness. Public administration is also streamlining. New computer systems are being introduced, and communication with users is increasingly taking place through the use of e-mail and the Internet. That's good. However, the efficiency of public administration lacks two essential measurement parameters. It concerns the costs of internal operational operations, but perhaps even more important is the practical and economic impact of an increasingly large public administration on the private sector. While competition in an open market ensures that businesses find the best balance between price, quality and performance, public administrative services are never exposed to a similar evaluation. This is precisely why our responsibility as the granting authority is extra large. It is our task and duty to keep a constant focus on expenditure growth, and it is our task to find the balance between effective and necessary public administration on the one hand and public unnecessary bureaucracy on the other. We must never forget that public administration has the task of providing most good services to people, but that there is not necessarily a correlation between money allocated for the purpose and the services produced at the other end. In fact, more and more resources may have the opposite effect of what was intended. This is not least the case for many public reporting requirements from industry. In this position, the Progress Party promotes four concrete proposals that will simplify everyday life for private enterprises, proposals that will at the same time reduce the need for resources for public proceedings. The proposals deal with event-related business reporting in a number of areas. Economic savings are estimated to be 600 million. And we ask the government to look at this. The party behind the Government's measures to make the credit market work. However, we believe that the measures should be speeded up, hit wider and better coordinated. We are also concerned that the assurances given by the Government that the measures would work, that they would work for everyone, and that they would work quickly, not necessarily in line with reality. The Progress Party will therefore encourage the Government to keep the Storting updated on the development of the credit market and we ask that the Government be proactive in relation to the challenges. In this respect, the Progress Party is promoting a proposal asking the Government to extend the GIEK's foreign system by DKK 3 billion, and the Government is proposing this at the latest in the January/February crisis package. The party of progress is pleased that we are united with the Christian People’s Party in this regard. The Progress Party notes that the Government proposes to increase the grant of housing loans for government employees by 400 million. kr. The Progress Party believes, in principle, that employees in the State should take up their mortgages in the private banking market as everyone else, and we see no reason for extended loan frameworks to be charged to taxpayers over the State budget. The Progress Party does not consider government employees to be a particularly weak or vulnerable group of borrowers, and we therefore ask the Government to liquidate the Special Loan Scheme for National Employees. Furthermore, the Progress Party is critical of the role played by the State Financial Management Centre (SSE). We have doubts as to whether the SEA is a useful tool for achieving more efficient resource management and better accounting in state-owned businesses. Our doubts are due, among other things, to: that the number of observations from the National Audit Office has not been reduced during the Centre’s lifetime, giving an indication of the Centre’s suitability and effectiveness. The activities of the SEA are carried out in competition with private economic advice, and the Progress Party considers it alarming that the Centre is only used selectively, despite the fact that in many cases the services are offered free of charge to the user. The Progress Party also records that the SSØ has a high number of employees and that they are located in a large geographical area. We have doubts as to whether such geographical distribution is appropriate and effective. I take this up with me the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted, alone or in conjunction with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2212	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2215	It is a little strange to hear the case rapporteur's highest voice of praise to the Government's budget, while he almost presents it as if Norwegian industry were in favour of the background. He also describes it so that we now have a budget well adapted to the situation, and that we are in an international financial crisis. We're not doing that anymore, we're in the middle of a real economic crisis in Norway. But now leave it. Since the rapporteur is so concerned about the international financial crisis, and it has been heard in the past how concerned he is for its reasons, I particularly want to point out a proposal from the opposition, where we ask for a professionally based selection to be set up which, in the context of the financial crisis, can look at how the financial and credit markets can be regulated in Norway. For example, what can we do? Do with the Credit Supervision – we have proposed in the ordinary budget a strengthening of this – and how this works in relation to the globalisation of the market economy, etc.? I had hoped that the President-in-Office, who is so concerned about the international financial crisis, could value some words for this proposal, and indeed I had hoped that he would simply say that he did not want to vote against it, but I have not heard it so far. Maybe I'll hear it later. Nothing would please me any more. So I also want to say that I agree with the heart of the representative Tybring-Gjedde, who used a lot of his contribution to talk about business simplification. The opposition stands together on these four proposals to which Tybring-Gjedde referred. And – also as a small greeting to the rapporteur on this occasion: With regard to this simplification, the Right and the Advance Party stand very well together, also with the other opposition parties. We have used a lot of space on the comment and on the proposals on this. It's very important that something is done about these things. Otherwise, I take up the suggestions that the Right is behind alone or with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2228	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2231	It is now generally accepted that the lack of limits on greed in US financial institutions created the financial crisis. Loans as if they were never going downtime created bubbles within the housing market and the stock market that have now created one of the most serious financial crises of the time internationally. But not everyone agrees with this. Carl I. Hagen has built a life's work on the belief in the free play of market forces combined with the unhindered use of oil money. A lot of strange things show up in the attempt to keep this life lie alive. In an article in the Evening Post on 19 November, Hagen claims that there are social demands on American banks that are the cause of the financial crisis. He points to the 1977 Community Reinvestment Act and other US measures to stimulate American banks to lend money, also to residents in poor areas of banking impact. It was a claim that was made to the banks in connection with purchases, mergers, etc., and that led many low-income Americans to buy their own home. Hagen's claim is that this created the subprime crisis. But that can hardly be true. Why would a 30-year-old law suddenly lead to an explosion in bad loans from 2002 onwards? Especially strange is this when we know that 75 pst. all sub-prime loans were granted by financial institutions not covered by this Act. He also points to the housing institutions Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These are old institutions with roots all the way back to Roosevelt's New Deal policy in the 1930s, which have helped secure Americans, including those with low incomes, mortgages. However, regulation was strict so that they lost large market shares to other financial institutions in the subprime tree until 2005. When the owners forced through the possibility of competing on the same lines with other banks, Fannie Mae tripled the high-risk loans from 2005 to 2008. This was very bad banking, but the guilt should be the greed of the owners, not the regulations to ensure poor Americans housing. This discussion may be brought to a close in the details of the regulation of US financial markets. It's hardly necessary. The financial crisis is due to the absence of restrictions on loans from US financial institutions combined with irresponsible monetary policies that provided very low interest rates for a long period. The US investment banks could previously borrow a maximum of twelve times their equity. This restriction was removed in April 2004. When Lehman Brothers went bankrupt in September this year, they had borrowed between thirty and forty times their equity. The Party's attempt to find support for the monetary and credit market to be regulated by market supply and demand, without political regulation or intervention, quoted from the Programme of the Progress Party, does not, in fact, provide any basis. There are more people than I have thought that this is not really what they think, that this is the result of a somewhat overactive programme committee that has not been good enough for quality assurance. But so far we see nothing but that the Progress Party actually believes this. In the year's budget, the Progress Party continues its line with cutbacks in the credit supervision appropriations. In a situation where financial market surveillance appears to be more important than ever, the Progress Party proposes to cut more than 12 million. kr on the budget of the credit supervision. In a situation where the ability of business and individuals to make important investments is threatened by problems in banks and other financial institutions, the Progress Party considers it appropriate to reduce the monitoring of liquidity and soundness of banks. These are extreme policies based on an extreme liberalism that we find few examples of in today's European policy. This is not the future of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2254	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2257	I stunned something when I heard the post of the representative, Lund Bergo, because it had little impact on what we are really going to discuss today. You'd like to move into a big debate about what's happened in the United States, etc., but I think I'll leave it. What is more interesting is what may happen in Norway. In connection with the position we are debating, an overall opposition has a proposal, no. 5, which reads: ‘The Government requests the setting up of a professionally based selection, which is entrusted with the task of reviewing the regulation of the Norwegian financial and credit markets in the light of the financial crisis. The aim is to ensure that regulation is adapted to the challenges of a globalised economy and that the regulatory regime contributes to ensuring the proper functioning of national markets. The Committee shall also assess whether the tasks and resources of the credit supervision are adapted to the challenges.’;» This proposal is not the case. The setting does not include SV. If the representative Lund Bergo is so very concerned about having functioning credit markets and functioning markets as he is clearly, why does SV not support this proposal in the position we are debating?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2269	If I thought the government had not grasped the political situation and the economic situation, I would probably have voted in favour of that proposal. There is nothing in the government's policy and the way they operate it that would make these things necessary. Of course, they are always part of the government's assessments. I have faith that to the extent that further payments or commissions are necessary, the government itself will ensure that it is established.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2275	I understand from the previous reply from the representative that he believes it is unnecessary to reduce such a sample, and that the government has control over everything for its own part. Now there have been quite a lot of discussions on cooperation and on the slightly larger similarities on issues during this financial crisis. Does the representative of Lund Bergo feel comfortable voting against this proposal, or would he rather have seen that this proposal and this matter could be passed on, so that perhaps you could look at improvements to the Norwegian framework? That's just the framework he's talking about in his main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2282	As I said in my previous reply, I believe that the proposal is unnecessary. There's no need for that. The government has control, the government has control, and there is no need to initiate exceptional measures. This is a situation governed by the Government, and I have full confidence in the job being done there. In terms of cooperation and collaboration invitations, I just want to replicate that what I notice with all the invitations is that it's pure reprisals. The invitations coming are re-prices from the programmes to the individual parties. It's just rematches on political issues. Had it even been an invite where they opened up to be on the government's premises, or approached our parties in their positions! But the only thing we've heard that's needed is for example. Tax relief and the removal of the steps we have taken to create better redistribution in Norwegian society. They have to be removed. That's the most important sense of cooperation we've seen so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2289	This was interesting anyway. The representative Lund Bergo claims that the government has control. I wonder why you have to bring all these packages all the time and uncertainly at what time, and have a press conference on Sundays, etc., if you have control. Our proposal to which Mr Leirstein referred is to put down a selection to see if a better overview of the markets and what measures may need to be taken. It doesn't hurt to have knowledge. Or does the representative Lund Bergo think that Minister of Finance Halvorsen and the Government have full control of the financial crisis, as opposed to all countries in the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2296	No, that's where I have to give Tybring-Gjedde right. No one has a full overview or full control. We can see that if we turn back five–six–seven–eight weeks in the Norwegian debate. Then we'll see that there are many people who have meant different things along the way. I think it was Sponheim who in his speech to Left's National Government meeting yesterday said that there is uncertainty that characterizes what we thought were truths four weeks ago. There are new truths every day that we have to deal with. Of course, that's the same thing for the Government. There's new knowledge coming all the time. But I am absolutely sure that the government has control to the extent possible. They monitor closely. It also shows the grips the government takes, and that they are not static in the approach to this, but that they have alerted packages. When they say that it can be in January, it is of course because the measures already in place must have time to work. So we're going to look at the situation, how it develops over New Year, and then the government, I'm sure, will come up with the right measures at the end of January.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2303	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2306	In this setting, the Christian People's Party is careful to refer to our alternative state budget in terms of allocations within the framework area 21 Financial administration etc. In this option we found, among other things: the scope for strengthening both the credit supervision and the control activities for which the Directorate of Taxation and the Directorate of Customs and Fees are responsible. As far as Framework Area 20 Export Credit is concerned, I would like to pay particular attention to the GIEK's Unland scheme. With slightly varying degrees of impatience, in spite of all the opposition parties, the wish that this guarantee framework should also be increased, as the other GIEK schemes have become in recent times. This concerns the financing of exports to countries with higher risks than those accepted under the general scheme. As is well known, the financial crisis is much about the collapse of the risk will of the institutions that live by financing others. I take this up with me the proposals that the Christian People's Party is promoting in the setting alone or together with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2315	The representative of Aud Kvalbein has put forward the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2318	The Ministry of Finance's own budget chapter is interesting enough, but much more important is the Ministry of Finance's priority tasks in 2009. However, I have brief comments on two issues in the Ministry of Finance's budget. First to the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit, GIEK. Lack of confidence in financial markets has called for a dramatic increase in GIEK guarantees, from DKK 50 billion to DKK 110 billion in 2009. I would like to stress that this is necessary, but risky. It requires increased vigilance in the processing of applications, so that taxpayers do not lose money on the guarantees, as has been the case so far. The second theme concerns the reorganisation of the tax haven. The centre party is a hot defender of municipal tax collectors, as they are a strength based on their local knowledge. We are therefore pleased that the Government supports this in its work further forward. So to the Ministry of Finance's priority tasks. We end up with the priorities that have been presented, but the financial crisis will become the most central task, where past truths in established financial environments need to be changed. The consequences and remedial measures in the real economy are the most important and become the most demanding in the future. This we will come back to later, over New Year. However, I will now go into the crisis of confidence in the financial markets in order to invite to a debate in order to get the most common understanding of the realities of the causes of the international financial crisis. The crisis of confidence in the financial market calls for new preventive regulations and measures. There must be a clearer division of roles and responsibility for the actors. The causes of the financial crisis are several, but they are the result of longer-term political choices. The reason and effect may be difficult to understand, but the crisis has been triggered by deregulation in Europe and the United States. After the great depression in the last century, when several national banks in the United States went bankrupt, the Glass-Steagall Act came in 1933. The law separated between investment banks and commercial banks, in order to ensure that commercial banks remained in lending. Business banks were to make money in ways that served the community under strict concession conditions/regulations and supervised by public oversight. In 1999, the law was repealed, under strong and long-term pressure to increase the risk and make more money. The current President, Bill Clinton, said in the liquidation of the Glass-Steagall Act, "We have done right by the American people." Investment banking activities under Norwegian and European conditions have taken place as part of a financial group or integrated multi-functional fund brokerage companies/concessions. Norway already introduced the financial group in 1988. Right after that, we got the UNI Storebrand scandal. Until April 2004, US investment banks could only borrow a maximum of 12 times their equity. Then the limit was lifted. In parallel, there was a circumvention of the capital adequacy rules by means of credit insurance and the securitisation of loans. Over the past six months, the five largest investment banks in the United States have either gone over, bought up, or been allowed to become commercial banks. Economist Erik S. Reinert pointed out in Dagbladet on 26 November 2007 that «The Terra scandal is really a fundamental system failure – caused by the lifting of old regulations». He wrote that American economist Jan Kregel has shown that new regulatory regimes have been exempt from banks ‘many of their old function as risk assessors and managed banks and brokerage houses to now specialize in putting together ‘packages’ of financial instruments and making their money to sell them, while not even performing their traditional role as risk assessors or risk managers themselves. These risky packages are not part of the asset side of the bank accounts after they have been sold». This is how the risk was borne by credulous buyers and society as a whole. DnBNOR and Acta have sold large quantities of structured products with ‘guaranteed returns’ to, inter alia: individuals and municipalities. Several of these products have proved to be very poor investments for customers, but secured the seller and issues large revenues. By 6 June of this year, hedge funds were also legalised in Norway under the name of the special fund. If you look at the behaviour of many such funds, it's a more accurate name for speculation funds. In 1995, I started working on the question of the soundness of the financial system. I visited the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, in Washington. The theme was the proposal to impose a levy on international currency transactions, known as the Tobin tax. I met there employees in the IMF's research department where I described free flow policy with the picture that when you remove the shots in an oil tank, it gives more instability. This picture was agreed by the IMF's research department. I was told that when the international regulation of capital flows was removed, the IMF was to base itself on monitoring of the economy and early warning of danger signals in order to avoid major financial and economic crises, i.e. to establish some sort of weather forecast for the financial world. In 1997, we experienced the Asian crisis with dramatic falls in the economies of the 'tenger' countries, including the United States and Japan. Thailand's currency was dramatically weakened in a few days. We in Norway also felt the effects of large short-term currency speculations when the Norwegian krona was weakened in the autumn of 1998. Such currency speculations are very damaging to the real economy. Therefore, the Tobin tax remains an even more necessary measure today. The credit message explains the state of the Norwegian and international economies. During the spring 2007 consideration of the Financial Committee, all parties, with the exception of the Right and the Progressive Party, pointed out that: ‘one of our biggest trading partners, the United States, had a government deficit of nearly 210 billion. USD in 2006, and a gross total external debt of 10 732 billion. USD, corresponding to about 80 per cent of GDP. Furthermore, there is an increasing operating deficit due to a negative trade balance These factors may constitute an instability that the majority think should be part of the risk picture that Norway has to decide on. [[...]] The current crisis in the financial system shows that the Storting's remark was ahead of its time. However, it was not taken seriously among those who represented the current view. The centre party will work towards better role-sharing and stability in financial markets. We believe that elected representatives should facilitate measures that are pre-emptive of such events. That is why I have called for the creation of a financial market commission from independent professional communities, with the aim of investigating why things went so wrong, who is responsible, and what preventive measures must be taken to avoid new systemic crises. It is interesting and pleasant to learn that the Council of State follows this up through its opinions, which the majority also transmits in the position. The role of credit supervision is important, but it is a reactive governing body. As elected representatives, I work for a clearer division of roles between the players in the financial market. In order to create a healthier financial system, the financial and real economy must go hand in hand – gap between financial values and real economic values are bubbles and therefore dangerous. Ethics must be repatriated. The proposals for Endr Røsjö and Ingäld Ørbeck Sørheim in Aftenposten 2 October d.å. That's a good start. They want, among other things: the transfer of people's debt by the bank which has issued a loan must be prohibited because it violates the trust between the lender and the borrower. Furthermore, insurance corporations shall be able to insure only life and property, not financial risks. Deposit banks shall only carry out lending, not speculation in financial instruments and currencies on behalf of banks. There must be separate ownership structures between bank and insurance. History will characterize the financial crisis with the words: experiments that had to give instability and great fluctuations because they were driven by great greed. The responsibility of the performers was powdered. Leadership had final packages that could stimulate exit strategies. The current crisis of confidence is too important for old divisions in party policy and the specific interests of the financial industry to take precedence over preventive measures for the benefit of citizens, businesses and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2362	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2365	I would like to thank the representative for his invitation to the debate on the international financial crisis, a debate which he himself has contributed greatly to initially. I don't think I want to discuss named finance companies in Norway, nor the fact that a certain hedge fund scheme was allowed in Norway. It was something on which the Finance Committee was gathered, and which came as a proposal from the Government. But I agree with the representative that past truths in the financial environment are now under pressure. What I don't understand is why the Central Party's representative does not want to help the government parties vote for proposal No. 5, where the opposition parties just want to put down a professionally based – and I stress professionally – sample to review the financial crisis on the Norwegian track, to see what we can do to improve this. That must be in the spirit of the representative, Mr Lundtegen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2374	I thank you for wanting to go into the discussion. As I said, it's not just that past truths are put under pressure – when we see how the financial crisis develops, it's pretty safe to be able to say that past truths need to be revised, and we need to get new truths. We couldn't have come into this situation without it being built on so-called truths that have proved not to be durable over time. With regard to the opposition's proposal, I have to say that especially the Right Party and the Progressive Party have little credibility in this discussion because they have been the drivers of an economic policy that has been based on the truths that are now proving to be bankrupt. That being said, the majority vote says that this is a topic on which you want to go. The Minister of Finance has also opened up the possibility of setting up a Commission involving experts. It's the government's view, and it'll be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2382	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2385	I'm not going to talk on behalf of others in the finance committee, but I want to say for myself that I look forward to having some Christmas holidays so I can clear my head in many areas. I will limit my contribution to taking up the proposal that it is my task to put forward, and I will justify it and other proposals that the Left is behind, little by little. This is how this option is enabled, budget input. S. No 6, is a sort of assorted land trade where there are many different things to complete the budgetary procedure. Thus, it invites, as the debate so far bears its mark, to have opinions about much as in and of itself may have coverage of issues raised in the vote. I would first like to draw attention to one of the proposals that I address on behalf of the Left in this setting, which is not least relevant to the work that the Government is going to do in the future in terms of crisis management. I am concerned – at these times when everyone is talking about crisis – that the Ministry of Finance should not only be a Ministry of Crisis, but also a Ministry of Sustainability, as it is, and that an attempt to contribute to the actions one takes in times of crisis can make us come out as a greener society and a more sustainable society at the other end. For this reason, the Left wishes to help the Government on its table to have as many good proposals as possible, which can also provide measures to be put into the crisis, a green device. That is why, in this setting, we propose to establish what we call climate change, which is an investment company in which the state can cooperate with private research institutions and others to enable companies that, these days, need to convert from traditional products to new products adapted to a new economy. A good example can be all the car production we have here in the country, built on the beautiful metallurgical knowledge and industrial tradition, which today makes car parts where markets disappear, but which obviously have knowledge and production capacity and should be able to switch to other interesting markets. It is quite typical that when car markets fall to the degrees, not least in countries such as Germany, we see the whole renewable sector and the demand for renewable products increase greatly. Using a crisis to link an export industry that is struggling, up against Norwegian research institutions and investment environments to get access to new product areas that will grow, I think it's a sparkly good way to get rid of crisis management. It can also give us a more sustainable society in the next round. This is how our oil and gas industries have been and are important. In particular, the whole supply side of the oil and gas industry is important. We should be able to have the attention and focus on how to build an even larger and more important supplier industry for the entire renewable sector. That is why the Left is promoting such a proposal today. And so it is that whatever the crisis and uncertainty, there is one thing that always stands, and it is using resources and effort to get the country new knowledge through research efforts. Not least environmental research and research on new technologies and industrial research. That is why the Left in this position proposes to strengthen the Research Fund by DKK 28 billion in addition to the Government's proposals. With such a change, the fund would have been NOK 100 billion, and the increase of NOK 28 billion would have given an interest rate of 5 pst. and resulted in an additional return for research purposes of approximately DKK 1.4 billion in 2010 in addition to the Government’s proposals. It would be a powerful contribution to how we have to align society to get out of the crisis stronger than we are today. Furthermore, the Left proposes raising the capital of renewable energy base and energy efficiency improvement by DKK 10 billion and the Culture Memory Fund by SEK 200 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. Finally, I would like to draw attention to proposal No. 5, from an overall opposition. I understand that the speakers on the government side have looked blindly at who is on the proposal, and believe that the proposal does not really mean such sensible things. The experience is that often the necessary regulation of the market economy, which everyone believes we need, can easily be behind the creative development shown by industry and not least by the financial industry. That's what we've been looking at all of these additional products that the financial industry has been offering in recent years. It's obvious that we're in the back of regulating this. Fortunately, this applies much less in Norway than in other countries, which has built up a heavy banking sector outside the regulated banking sector. Equally full, the functioning of the financial industry and the market economy is crucial for authorities to be early ahead of understanding all the new supply and to be able to create regulatory frameworks around it. So this proposal is nothing more than a contribution to recognizing that both we who have had government power before, and those who have government power now, have a need to be even better off lying in front and seeing where it is necessary to create a framework, as there are ever new products and opportunities to let capitalism run wild, to say so. I have also registered during the weekend, after having presented what the LO thinks about its proposals on crisis management, that they will also make a completely similar proposal to the Government – either it is done today or it will be done the next few days. I don't think there's anyone who should assign the LO to have very crooked motives in a right-wing liberalist direction when they do, but they simply admit that there are things happening here. We learn so fast that we need to systematize that knowledge. I would recommend to the Government at least not to contribute to the vote on such a proposal. It'll look a little strange in retrospect, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2406	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2411	I am pleased that this debate is developing so that it is now possible to discuss the financial industry and regulation of financial markets on a completely different basis from what has been possible so far. Now the leader of the Left says that we have had a creative financial industry, understood for creative purposes. We've been in the back of regulation. My question concerns what is central to the proposal on which the Left is involved: is it that the proposal to go through the entire financial sector’s regulation, both nationally and internationally, is based on the fact that the leader of the Left recognises that significant errors have been made and that there has been a lack of and incorrect regulation of the financial sector also in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2418	Let me first say that I didn't say that any industry has been too creative. It's a business task to be creative, to look for new opportunities and to push completely at the edge of what might be socially sound, because there are some economic opportunities there. The market economy will go wild and destroy itself if we don't make sure that we have good authorities that are constantly on the verge of modern regulation. I think it's quite obvious that the industry is going to be creative, and then the authorities have to be even more good at making sure that proper frameworks are around this all the time. The whole story in recent years has shown that we haven't been able to stay ahead enough of having the regulatory regimes that we need. That is why it is hardly a minority today who are asking for it. In it there is a recognition that we have to be better off in front of having modern control instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2423	It is clear that the leader of the Left invites the financial industry to be on the brink of soundness. I don't want to moralize, but I will draw attention to the fact that when it's a central legislator's position, it may not be so strange that there has not been a majority in the Storting to ensure that a sound framework is adopted that enables those who move in such a way to be informed by the Storting that such behaviour is not socially sound. We are now facing a review and securing of our financial markets in the future – in such a way that we will return to the land, that there will be a clear division of roles, and that there will be a clear division of responsibilities. And I want to ask the representative Sponheim if he does not agree that there is a need for a thorough review on that basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2430	Firstly, when I used the words ‘on the brink of soundness’, it could mean ‘risk’. Taking risks is the task of the financial industries. And in areas where it can affect people other than those who are owners and take the risk, it is important that the authorities regulate and ensure citizens for the rest. Because that's what it's all about, until those degrees go out on others if the financial industry is going to go over the edge of what's right. The recognition contained in this is that I think that, as most countries — perhaps better than most countries — we could have been even more in advance of having modern regulatory regimes. And it's all the way back to the government where the Central Party had the Minister of Finance and the representative Lundtigen ran around in the government offices. Then these suggestions, as I could see, but one could, seen in retrospect, have been even earlier out having frames around many of the new products that then grew up. Regarding the question of the need to have a review, the answer is yes. That is why a proposal has been made that the Central Party has so far not chosen to support, which is about having a full review of whether we need to modernise some of our regulatory regimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2439	Left - together with the Right and Christian People's Party - writes in its comments in the statement that the Government's "target of over-fulfilling the Kyoto Agreement by 10 pst. by 2012 appears to be very little realistic.’ The reporting to the United Nations Climate Change Commission in December 2005 estimated that the measures implemented had resulted in a reduction of 11 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Through participation in the EU ETS, Norwegian enterprises need to reduce an additional 7 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent through internal reduction or through the import of allowances. In total, this means that Norway is roughly in balance with meeting the Kyoto agreement. The country’s purchase of allowances corresponds to an over-fulfilment of the Kyoto agreement of 6-7 million tonnes, corresponding to 10 pst. over-fulfillment. So in addition to that, the effect of forest management is limited to 1.5 million tonnes. Does the representative Sponheim think that it is still a little realistic, or is the confusion less?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2459	Now I'm about to start getting as chubby voice as the replicator here. Let me start by saying that we have had – and that could be the basis for being so mollified – a record increase in CO2 emissions in Norway in the last year. There's been a lot of attention in the media lately. And so in three days' time, we're going to deal with the downsizing, where the government in the current year has not bought any allowances in other countries, because there have been no sensible projects to invest in. That's why several hundred million dollars are pulled out. It's obvious that there's one in the back, because the instruments aren't in place. It's just reading the government's own new age to see it. Therefore, we – the Government too – have a job to do to achieve the important goals that the Government obviously wants, but where there is a piece left before you succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2471	Only in this context: in 2007 the size of the revised budget provided some guidelines on how to buy allowances. You can do that through individual projects, or you can do it through the stock exchange. The majority of the population and the Government have chosen to do so through individual measures, in order to try to participate and create a market in this respect with quota trading. But the Government and the Storting can, for example, choose to purchase those allowances on the stock exchange. It is, of course, to be involved and influence to the minimum possible emissions that have been the reasons of the Government. Therefore, it is also important to provide money for this. I understand that the representative Sponheim needed to spend the money on CO2 allowances for other purposes, but he must nevertheless be satisfied that we have an ambitious government, which will do more than the representative wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2482	I didn't quite understand that line. It is quite correct that we had a thorough debate on this in the context of the revision, where, among other things, the Left. said that we thought it was unrealistic to find out about these measures for greenhouse gas reductions, and saw no reason to budget with large amounts of money for that purpose. Now the government comes with the fascination in connection with the effusion. And then the government says the exact same thing that Left said six months ago, and that I was criticized by the representative Klungland six months ago. So here it's well documented that the Left was right – and the Government comes after and has agreed. Therefore, it would have been so much more important if we had thrown all of these resources, the money and the effort, into the work of taking reductions at home. There we have control of the measures, we know when they can come. Then we'll get to grips with the sensible projects out there when we're sure that that gives us the reductions we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2491	No more words have been asked for a line. On an incursion, the President has not indicated that the regulatory time for the evening meeting was over a good few minutes ago. But the president now mentions it and suggests that the meeting lasts until today's map is finished. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2496	The debate on this budgetary position is always getting a little jumpy. I'm not going to go through all the issues that could be addressed, but only one that has been a little bit of a repetition of the debate: how to follow up on the lessons of the financial crisis that we have so far, and what action to take in the future. There is a clear need to go through the legislation and legislation that we have. Although both the law and supervision are good and clear in the international context, it is still possible that there are some weaknesses that should be brought back to the Storing quickly, and we have many opportunities to do so. So it's the slightly longer-term challenges that come to the wake of the financial crisis. There are several in the public debate that have called for the creation of different types of commissions, public sample sizes of professionals, or a little more broadly composed sample sizes. There are some input that I take with me, because I also think it is necessary to analyse thoroughly the long-term challenges that the financial crisis gives us – economically, but also politically – and that this is interesting for the Storting on a later occasion to come back to. But we just have to make sure that a mandate is designed in such a way that the things that should be quickly promoted for the Storting are not hindered by a reduction in some form of commission or selection here. So just a few brief comments: I have to say I am very surprised that the Progress Party repeats its proposal to cut down on the credit supervision, when everyone understands that an up-to-date credit supervision, which now has the opportunity to closely monitor the credit market, is absolutely crucial for how we are going to deal with a demanding situation also with Norwegian institutions. It would obviously mean less control, less supervision. It's completely irresponsible in today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2508	I have to remind the Council of State that the Progress Party does not cut credit supervision. We're increasing the Credit Authority's framework by 12 pst. The government increases the Credit Authority’s framework by 17 p.m. So our draft budget is 12 pst. higher than last year. The government is increasing by 17 pst. If it's a be or not for the credit supervision and their tasks, we have a very big problem in the public sector. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that there is not a single penny that can be cut in public administration, in finance administration, in Norway? Does it mean that you have found absolutely all kinds of cutbacks, when you know that the money you spend does not actually belong to Kristin Halvorsen or the state, they belong to the Norwegian people, it is tax money – and it is important that you spend that money on the best possible and the most dynamic and appropriate way for society? Does the Council of State consider that there is no one krone to cut at a single supervision or financial institution in public Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2515	Well, there is probably a krone that can be cut both here and there, but not to strengthen the credit supervision in a situation with an international financial crisis that also affects Norway, I think is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2523	Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2528	However, not to the extent necessary for the credit supervision to be up-to-date and to carry out the checks and supervision that are very demanding in the current situation. It is quite obvious that it is the nitite control activities that would suffer if the budget of the Progress Party were to be implemented. Fortunately, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2533	The Progress Party, together with the other opposition parties, promotes four concrete actions to help private businesses and private enterprises with public reporting practices. I do not know if the Council of State has read the proposals, but at least according to the companies and according to the NARF, it is possible to save the companies for 600 million. kr if they have simple reporting procedures, i.e. event-based reporting procedures. I have not heard that any of the opposition parties here at Stortinget have commented on these proposals. I wonder if the Council of State has read them and wants to take them with it, so that we can possibly turn them into transmission proposals, so that the Government sees that it is possible to make savings, so that the Norwegian people can actually save some money, and that one not every year gets increased expenditure to the public administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2540	The issue that Tybring-Gjede now addresses, and that others have raised earlier in the debate, is important. The Minister of Economic Affairs has recently presented an outline of how we should go through and simplify the systems around private traders, as there are clearly opportunities to do something on that front. What I would like to warn against, however, is that the control systems that are essential to ensure, for example, are being addressed. soundness, legality of tax settlement, etc. And there is always a balance between the amount of reporting to be reported in relation to the effectiveness of industrial activity and the need for social control to ensure that a clean business environment exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2547	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2551	I would like to come back to a theme in which the representative Sponheim concluded his speech: to mention and to the extent that argue for proposal No. 5 in the setting. It has been presented by the representatives of the opposition party, and the purpose of the proposal is to ask the Government to set up a professionally based selection which, in the light of the financial crisis, is to go through regulation of the Norwegian financial and credit market. I am well aware of the need for such a proposal, and I would like to point out that on page 8 of the vote, there is in fact a response from the majority of the committee – if one wishes – to the case, where we from the majority point of view point out that the Minister of Finance has already stated that there is a work under way in the Ministry of Finance to go through the law on finance, and that in connection with this, it may be relevant to put down a commission. It should be a very concrete response to the wish of the opposition party here. I also refer to the clarification just given by the Minister of Finance in his intervention in the debate, and on this basis I would like to call for proposal No. 5, from the opposition part, will be converted to a forwarding proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2558	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2561	I am grateful for the efforts both the Minister of Finance and the chairman of the Committee have made to bring together the troops on their own with regard to proposal No. 5 from the opposition. The best thing is that you can gather both the opposition and the government parties. Therefore, on behalf of the proposers, I would like to say that we are in favour of this being transmitted to the Government. I would like to add that we take the view – that is not the design of the details of the mandate – that there will be a dialogue with the opposition on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2566	The representative of Svein Flätten has then converted the proposal he referred to into a transmission proposal, and the text is amended accordingly. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1563]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2584	In the absence of the rapporteur, Mr Holmås, I am delighted to present the majority vote of the Committee on Finance, when we are now considering the proposal for a representative, Document No. 8:139 for 2007-2008 from four party representatives. The proposal is about banning the publication of tax lists. This discussion is by no means new; it has been going on for years. It has important policy aspects of democracy and distribution, which it is worth weighing against each other sometimes. The background to the proposal is well known by the supporters of the proposal, while I will explain the majority's views. In this case, we have emphasised social considerations rather than individual wishes to keep information private. We believe that the publication we have, which the red-green government has expanded, helps to strengthen the critical debate on taxation and income policy, and the distribution of income between professions and groups. In addition, transparency contributes to the verification of the work of the equality authorities more than without. In those countries that have this kind of publication, democracy is also considered to be good, and they are the most egalitarian countries in the world. With regard to the international obligations we have, or the relationship with human rights, there are no clear and unambiguous conclusions that suggest that our practice violates them. We therefore see no reason to comply with the proposal and recommend that it not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2595	Publication of tax lists is a long tradition in Norway. Transparency about economic conditions is fundamental health. Money and power often belong together. Therefore, transparency is important in a democracy like ours, perhaps especially about economic conditions. Tax is one of the areas of policy that creates the most involvement, both among those who want lower taxes, and among those who want higher taxes to solve even more welfare tasks. There is disagreement about the level of taxation, in the same way as there is disagreement about the design of the tax system itself. One of the basic principles of the Norwegian tax system is that it is progressive, i.e. That the more you earn, the more taxes you pay percent. It's well thought out in the population. Those who have the most and serve the most shall provide the most to the community as well. Those with low income and no wealth shall pay less to the community. Trust that this is the case means that the conclusion of the tax system is greater in Norway than in many other countries. But then people have to feel a sense of security that it really is. They must have information confirming the proper functioning of the system and that there is a link between financial ability and taxation. There are many examples that the publication of the tax lists has shown that there are distortions in the tax system, whether there have been zero-taxors, low asset rates or tax-free dividends. The term ‘zero-taxors’ had hardly existed without the media’s focus on those with high incomes, and how low they have paid — or so to say nothing — and how much tax they pay to the seventh and last. Journalism around some occupational groups has revealed a payroll among, for example: business lawyers and brokers. But there are also examples of financial crime being revealed. Then I think of people who have lived rough with an extremely high consumption, well visible to everyone in the community, but who at the same time have reported a regular salary to the equality authorities. This double life has become apparent because of the publication of tax lists. Some proposers have programmed free wage formation and that individuals should negotiate their own salary. Then I think about the Progress Party. In this case, full information on both the manager’s and colleagues’ income will be required. Something else is contrary to the principle of full information in a market. It is surprising that a party that saw to the degrees believes in the free market, as the Progress Party does, is at the same time opposed to the fact that this type of information is available and publicly available. I thought that the more information is available, the better the markets will work. A free-for-profit labour market, which the Progress Party wishes to pursue, cannot function without full transparency of income. On this basis, therefore, no income of its own, or the individual's contribution to the community, is exclusively a private matter. The main objection is that the figures should be interpreted and systematised. Net income and net wealth often give a misleading idea of how much people earn and how much they actually own. If we were to do something about the tax lists, it had to be to make the information even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2610	The party of progress is the champion of the individual and will protect privacy. We are therefore opposed to the publication of the tax lists and have therefore proposed to ban this because it is a threat to and violation of privacy. We believe this is a matter between the tax authorities and the individual taxpayer. The publication of tax lists in today's modern society is a strange phenomenon, apparently practiced since 1863. Sweden also has such a publication. The historical background for the publication of the tax lists was that municipalities saved money by not sending a message with the annual equation in the entry to each tax payer, i.e. public debt. In addition, citizens were given the opportunity to control the wealth of others and to complain that any other taxpayer had been taxed too lightly — that is, a measure to increase tax revenue for the King and the municipalities, which was most likely more important in the 1800s in terms of proceeds and control options, as the authorities had to rely more on what individual residents themselves informed. We can't say it's like this today. Today, the use of citizens’ tax lists has become quite different. Both the local and national press produce surveys that can hardly be said to satisfy other needs than the binocular mentality of parts of the population and that are largely facilitated by the red-greens with this legislation. For example, it is made. major articles on who has the highest income, the highest wealth, the ranking of the youngest wealthiest in the city, and the wealth and income of local and national government. Professional groups are divided into actors, entrepreneurs, sportspeople, politicians and other social debaters – i.e. pure entertainment and of little general interest. It's not just the Progress Party that is opposed to this. The right and partly Christian People's Party is also critical of this. The Data Protection Authority and the Tax Payer Association are also very critical for the publication of tax lists. Information on income and wealth is very private and, in my opinion, purely private in the private sector, in the same way that personal health information is not published. With regard to the tax information that is public, it also does not always give a proper picture of the individual's economy, especially in view of the complex tax system we have in Norway. The information on the individual’s net worth, net income — not gross — and total tax paid is not sufficient to determine whether it is correct in relation to other taxpayers with similar figures. With the many tax deductions we have in Norway, there will be large individual differences that cannot be explained by the public figures. It says e.g. nothing about how indebted the person is, how much or little property the person has, how many children the person takes care of, or what diseases the person suffers from, and therefore costs for which one may be deducted. It must also be noted that the information contained in the equations published is not final. They are therefore very often not correct or complete. So the press makes articles in the media and produces it as a truth before the deadline for appeal has expired, and does not take into account the fact that many equations are charged and changed on essential points. The supporters of the publication of tax lists say that this is necessary in order to detect tax fraud. Yes, but can you somehow prove how often it happens that the equality authorities get tips from a reader of the tax lists, and that there is actually a team in the tip? At least I haven't heard about it. If there are a few tips on tax fraud that are in place, can it defend the fact that the rest of Norway's population has their private lives violated, with the unfortunate consequences? On the other hand, what I heard in a radio interview a few years ago with a head of the tax administration or the chemist, in a municipality in Buskerud, was that nine out of ten tips about tax evasion were from reputable and damned newly divorced women who kept quiet about their ex-husbands. And then a little bit about other unfortunate consequences in terms of publishing tax lists. There are enough examples showing that children and young people experience unpleasant episodes in school and leisure because of the mention of their parents related to the publication of tax lists. This often affects children with low incomes, but also bullying, envy and violence against children with rich parents, with high incomes or high wealth. A study conducted by Synovate for the Tax Payer Association shows that a total of 46 pst. by those who asked were opponents of public tax lists. Only 32 pst. was in favour. The political parties that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Left should take over are those with low incomes who were more opposed than others. The tax payers’ association can also confirm that they receive multiple enquiries from people who feel that their children are being bullied on a regular basis after their classmates have turned their parents up in the tax lists on the Internet. So these political parties ignore it, and I think it is sad. Another unfortunate consequence that we unfortunately also see more and more of is burglaries, ransacks and thefts against people who appear in the tax lists as rich. So the tax lists serve as useful information for criminals, who simply misuse the information to find out where they assume it would be most profitable to break in. So they pick out their victims. It was not long ago that the Tax Directorate had failed to send CD-ROMs containing income and property information to its fellow citizens, with the birth and person number of all the press editorials in the country – a small scandal! It is a very serious matter that the Tax Directorate enjoys so sensitive and personal information about all taxpayers, and that is another example of the risk a citizen is exposed to, because of the Law on Public Tax Lists. The supporters of the publication of tax lists say that there is a need for tax lists to be published, as citizens can then check and check whether there can be tax fraud and tax evasion – and thus hint at the equality authorities – and, as the Minister of Finance writes in his letter to the Finance Committee: ‘The publication of tax lists is important in order to strengthen the critical debate on fiscal matters and can contribute to the social control of the equality authorities.’.» Okay, if I'm going to follow that rhetoric and those arguments, why don't the same parties suggest that all recipients of e.g. sickness benefits, disability benefits, social assistance, etc. to be published on a list – for all? There can be no secret here that can give rise to speculation about who is receiving tax money or not, but citizens must be given the opportunity to control the use of others — and perhaps abuse — in order to alert the authorities if they are, for example, alerted. I knew that the person who received tax money was still in full employment and perhaps received a salary in black, and in no way needed. I stress that the Progress Party does not, of course, propose anything like this, nor does it mean it. We believe that this is about privacy, and we want to protect it. Similarly, we do not want to publish tax lists. But why do the followers of tax lists not propose the publication of tax money recipients? Why should we not be completely consistent? In conclusion, I will address the proposal we are promoting together with the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2651	The representative Jørund Rytman has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2654	I will just briefly explain our position on the matter. I'm a little surprised when Aasen says it's the progressive tax in Norway that is controlled by the publication of tax lists, as I understand her. It's pretty surprising. I thought there were completely different things that led to this. I think it is very difficult to imagine other policy areas where information about individuals should be a guide to the authorities' handling of completely general and completely fundamental issues, such as: progressive taxation is. It is quite obvious that the statistics of any government, insofar as any opposition policy can also be obtained from the Central Statistical Office in terms of wealth, income relationships for all groups of taxpayers, on each and every item in the tax declaration, are the basis on which to deal with fiscal policy. Then the question is, do you need this massive publicity about who these individuals are and what they serve? I haven't heard any practical examples of what you get out of exactly this. On the contrary, you hear negative stories about what that leads to. One of the most important factors for us to oppose publication is that there have been reports that ask questions about the current rules on the publication of tax lists is an infringement of the European Convention on Human Rights. This disapproves to the extent that the Government and the opposition parties, but we believe that it is unsustainable that the citizens of a country can cast doubt on such important international conventions. The very last thing in this area we can read in the Evening Post today, without me being able to verify it, but it's a leak from the Privacy Commission, where a majority now obviously agrees that the lists can only be placed on the tax haven's websites, and not be given to the media. A majority of the Commission shall have applied for such tightening. One of the reasons is that it's going to make it harder for criminals to abuse the lists, because it's a fact that there's been abuse of them. Data protection has also for a long time criticised the use that is now being practised by the press without concessional obligations, and often used for purely entertainment purposes. It is important to be aware, then, that this proposal also implies that there should be a right of concession so that those in need of information can obtain it. That is why we are in favour of this proposal to have a prohibition on publication, combined with a concession for those who need the information.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2667	The centre party is a follower of the publication of the tax lists, because we are a hot follower of taxes according to the ability principle, which we got as early as 1881, with progressive income taxes and associated property taxes for a wealth that gave a job-free income beyond a certain size. The tax rules are complicated, with many unknown exceptions, and publication of the tax lists will stimulate the critical debate on how the rules work. The publication of the tax lists is to make public the positive financial contribution that each individual makes to the Community. It is, of course, unwise to publish what we citizens need from the community in the context of situations that in many cases we are not masters of. It is very important that the tax rules have a large amount of general support. I would say it so strongly that it is at all a prerequisite for financing a high level of public consumption. High levels of public consumption are not least important in times of crisis in order to provide security for people. If you want the goal of security, you also need to want the funds. So you have to have taxes according to your ability. Taxes on ability must go further in the debate on fiscal policy. From our point of view, we see the publication of the tax registers so that it can contribute to a better change of words, a continuous change of words about how we organise our tax rules, and that's just positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2676	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2679	The representative Lundtigen was concerned with taxes according to his ability, and believed that the publication of tax lists would help – I suppose – some to be revealed not to tax according to their ability, and that one can reveal fraud, and for example. take the zero-taxors. But then he's also concerned that you should receive as needed, I guess, and then you can use the exact same logic, that you should reveal a joke. Those who receive social security and do not need it, e.g. The neighbor, or someone down the road that you know works, can be stated, just as you can state or write in the paper about those who do not pay taxes, but who should have done so, or those who pay too little taxes, and who should have paid more. I wonder why this inconsistency in Mr Lundteigen's reasoning?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2686	According to the view of the Centre Party, the purpose of publishing the tax lists is not to reveal fraud. There is little juxtaposition in the case of Norwegian tax administration. What is at the heart of the rules on publishing the tax lists is through a change of words to get a discussion about how the rules adopted, with their many exceptions, work in practice. When we publish, we'll be able to help that word change can have its basis in relation to what people know. Thus, we can have a discussion about whether the rules are reasonable according to the principle of the Center Party and the principle of the Government, namely tax according to ability. The Progress Party has other tax models, not taxes according to its ability, and they are then faced with problems in that debate and therefore do not want to publish the tax lists either.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2691	Why does not the same reasoning apply to those who may receive disability benefits and other social security benefits? It's the exact same logic you can use for them, but it's obviously another reasoning used for them. Why this difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2697	As I said in my introduction, the publication of the tax lists is a publication of the positive contribution each citizen makes to the community. With regard to the needs of each individual citizen to be covered by the community, it would be entirely unwise to publish it, since in many cases there is a need for each individual citizen as a result of circumstances over which a seafarer does not have control, including: evere illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2702	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2705	When I listened to the representative Rytman and the argument about why one was for the publication of tax lists, I was greatly surprised, and perhaps even more when I heard how the debate has developed. One of the main arguments of Rytman to oppose the publication of tax lists is that it creates violence against children. Now it is that bullying and violence against children are a huge problem in themselves, but it has never come to my ears or in other ways told me that publishing tax lists is a major problem in terms of bullying or violence against children. Based on what I know and know, I want to refute that it's a correct argument. The same applies to burglaries and raids, that there are rich people who become victims of criminal burglaries. There are no statistics that say that's the way it is. Being a victim of burglary and ransack says the statistics can hit us all in a bunch, no matter what number or name we have on the tax list. It's essential that it's public, because it's like if it's not dirty, you can discover dirty with publicity. But what you can also discover is whether we have a fair tax system. It's like what carries our tax system is that it feels fair. I have to say that there are people who have huge amounts of money, and there are many who have, and do not pay taxes. I felt as a nursery assistant to pay a lot more taxes than any of those who were stunned by the pot – I don't know if it's a parliamentary expression – and then at least I asked myself: Is it a fair tax system? And don't we have to do something about the tax system to make it fair, as long as the tax system is what should bear our welfare society? After hearing the representative Tybring-Gjedde, I wonder if one is most concerned about protecting those who are victims of the publication of the tax lists, or whether one is most concerned about telling who is not being spent in relation to this with the receipt of so-called tax money that the Progress Party calls it. If the representative Rytman is so concerned with violence against children and believes that the publication of the tax lists is a very important argument to oppose, at least the representative Rytman and others from the Progress Party should fight against the publication of who receives different social security funds. It would at least lead to the bullying of children if it came for a day that your mother is going on illegitimate because she e.g.. have arthritis, or your mother is in a state of dissatisfaction because she has mental problems and is unable to work. The debate became quite strange to me when I heard the argument. I don't want any clarification. I just want to say that it was okay to get on the table that the representatives of the Progress Party are really concerned about the publication of tax lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2722	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1572]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2738	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 1572]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2754	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 1573]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2770	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given to comments from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time; In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2779	In 2004, a cultural fund was set up for the Roma population, or the tattoos. It was supposed to be a collective compensation for the injustice committed by the Norwegian state – it belongs to the story. The purpose of this collective compensation was to preserve and develop the language, culture and history of the tattoos. It was decided that only organisations approved by the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion could be represented on the Board of Directors of the Fund. And per year. Today there are two associations. It is the Land Association of the Tatars, and it is the Land Organisation of the Romani people, i.e. that these two organisations each have three representatives on the board – six representatives together. In addition, the State has one non-voting representative on the Board of Directors. When this board was set up, some concerns gradually arose in the keyboard environment. That turmoil was particularly among the 90 pst. – that’s the number I’ve been given – that’s unorganized. The vast majority of the tattoos are unorganized and not represented in the board. It has evolved in such a way that it has become a distrust of the board of directors of the fund, and this has been pretty much turned up in the VG a few months ago. That is why this matter is being dealt with here today. The Party of Progress is behind this Document No. The 8th proposal. Proposalers want a completely new, independent and wide-ranging governance to manage the Romani people's fund, in the light of environmental concerns. Now it is not that easy that it is for the Storting to make concrete representations or make decisions on the board of directors of the fund, because this is a foundation, and it is the foundation itself that has to deal with this matter. On that basis, we want from the opposition's side to go further and recommend to the board of directors of the foundation to take an action on the matter, so that we can get more calm about the board composition of the fund. The opposition parties, with the subsidiary agreement of the Progress Party, want the State representative on the board to have a vote. It'll make the problem a little bit smaller because some of the problem around this, is that in case of voting equality in the board, the leader will have a double vote. There's a lot of dissatisfaction here in terms of instability and family situations. In this case, the case rapporteur has been quite patient and hoped that the government parties and the Council of State could also plan to take a step towards recommending to the board even to make changes. It didn't work out, so we're separating layers in this room. It is the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that support that proposal, which is supported by the Progressive Party in subsidiary terms. So with that, I'll take up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2796	Then the representative Kari lise Holmberg drew up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2799	The majority are opposed to the proposal to establish a new government for the Roman people's fund. The proposers are concerned about the sustainability of the fund's board, and want the Storting to intervene and establish a new and independent board. We, the majority, believe it is better that the department has a close dialogue with the board in the future, as the board of the fund has just started its work. they have not yet made any arrangements for the fund's return; Then, as the majority, we choose to have confidence that the Board of Directors of the Foundation will make arrangements according to the statutes and purposes laid down in the founding document of the Romani Foundation, and that they will do so in a way that creates confidence in the whole population. According to the founding document, the yield should be used for measures to promote the preservation and development of the culture, language and history of the Roma population. I would also like to take this opportunity to recall the background to the establishment of the Romani people's fund. We know that the cultural development of the Romani people has been hampered by the state's research policy throughout almost the last century. Yes, in fact, as late as the late 1970s, abuses against members of this group were still being carried out. These are actions we do not want to be familiar with today. State policies in this area have helped to suppress the language and culture of the Roma people and have not evolved. This was one of the reasons why the fund was set up, and that it was based on the fact that the Romani people were supposed to manage the return of the fund. With this in mind, the majority chooses to reject the proposal, and we will also vote against the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2812	The case rapporteur explained well to the case, and it begins to go against night, so I will be brief. In the UK on Saturday 23 February 2008, it was possible to read that a toaster, with strong family support, secured a veto right on the board of the Romani people, which is to pay out the annual return of the fund of approx. Four million. kr from 2008. Because the fund was established several years before the foundation came into operation, there is a significant million pot to be distributed already now. According to the VG, the Roman people's fund is at approx. $12 million. kr of accumulated returns since 2004. The fact that one family has got a good grip on the newly created foundation is very unfortunate. Jusprofessor Geir Woxholth, who in his time led the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, says to the VG that he is very sceptical that one family has been given such powers, and he scoffs at the fact that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion has not ensured the wider recruitment of board members. The National Association of the Tatars, which manages the Romani Fund established by the Government, is today seen as a pure family enterprise, in which one family sits by a majority and veto right on the board. Such a development could harm the roman people and help discredit the fund, and, if it develops, it could damage the case that the fund was meant to raise. We therefore propose that the Government appoint a new, independent and broad-based government to manage the Romani people's cultural fund. I then take up this proposal and will subsidiaryly support the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2827	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2830	Article 15 of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe stipulates that the authorities shall create the necessary conditions for effective participation of persons belonging to national minorities in cultural, social and economic life and in public matters, in particular those affecting them. In 2004, the Stortinget adopted the establishment of the Romani people’s cultural fund in order to contribute to a solution that provides satisfactory collective compensation for the abuses to which the Roma people are exposed. The organisations of the Roman people were to be represented in the Foundation, and the statutes were to be drawn up by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in cooperation with the Romani organisations. It took three years after the Stortinge decided to set up the foundation fund and the statutes were in place. The Ministry stressed that the statutes were created through a process in which the ministry and the Roma organisations discussed as much as possible until agreement was reached. It was during the period of disagreement between organisations – in the view of the department it would seem very unfortunate to press through a solution to the organisation of foundations with which the organisations were not understood. So it had to take some time. Furthermore, it took time to approve the registration of the foundation in the Brønn Island Health Registers. In addition to indicating the purpose of the Fund and the management of the Fund's revenue, the Statute establishes that representatives of the organisations of the Romani peoples recognised by the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion as eligible for basic support may sit on the Board of Directors. At the time of its establishment in 2007, this was the Land Association of the Tatars, the Landsorganisation of the Romani people and the Association of Roma. The Roma Association did not apply for basic support from the Ministry in 2008, and the association is therefore not relevant to the board today. According to the Statutes, the State has one representative on the Board of Directors with speech and right of proposal, but no voting rights. In addition, the Ministry has had an observer who, among other things: have contributed to the record of the meetings. Amendments to the Statutes relating to, for example: The voting rights of the representative of the State may be exercised only by the board of the formation by a majority of the majority of the majority. All practical aspects have now been clarified and the means have been released. In this situation, I think it is unfortunate to propose changes to the solution chosen. The Administrative Board should now be given the possibility of acting as provided for. Finally, I would just like to mention that the Storting through the founding document is a secure briefing on matters that may have something to say about the assessment of the payment of future returns. In addition, the provisions of the Constitution apply to supervision and follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2849	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Food, see page 1574]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2867	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 1574]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2885	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 1575]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2898	The cancellation goes to voting in the cases that have been dealt with in today's meeting. It's a long and demanding voting, so we have to deal with this together.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e2906	In the course of the debate 53 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 13-20, 27 and 38-49, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 2–7 and 30–33, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, on behalf of the Party for Progress. 8 and 34-36, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left motion No. 9, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 10 and 11, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 12 and 37, by Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 28, by Olemic Thommessen, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 21, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 22–26, 50, 52 and 53 from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 29 and 51, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–51 is included in the position on pages 131 to 154, while proposals Nos. 52 and 53 are distributed in the seats of representatives. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 29 and 51, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e5112	The proposals are then put to the vote. 22–26 and 50, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e5160	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 52 and 53, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e5185	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to ensure that all foster parents who are out of ordinary employment, are entitled to sickness benefit and occupational pension.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e5200	We are then voted on proposal No. 28, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e7354	The proposals are then put to the vote. 12 and 37, from the right, the Christian party, and the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e7378	The proposals are then put to the vote. 10 and 11, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party, and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e7401	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e7416	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8, and 34-36 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8, which reads:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e7434	The proposals are then put to the vote. 34-36.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e7465	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2–7 and 30–33, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e7535	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 13–20, 27 and 38–49, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e11563	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote. We vote first over Framework Areas 2, I to VI. The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e16360	It's going to go first over the 60s and the 61s.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e16371	It is then added to item 65. Here the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e16660	There is a vote on the proposal by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Odelstinget on 28 November 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend the Marketing Act § 12 which allows local authorities to decide that today’s reservation scheme is ‘returned’ from ‘no-tank’ to ‘yes-tack’ for marketing by unaddressed mail.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e16679	There is a vote on the proposal of the representative of Groningen Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party submitted from the meeting of Odelstinget on 28 November 2008: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a ban on advertising in relation to films for children aged 7 and down.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e16698	The vote will then be taken on the proposal by Mr Tørersdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 28 November 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend Section 12 of the Marketing Act that reflects today’s right of reservation against telephone marketing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e16717	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Left, transmitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 28 November 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting for the introduction of an online gambling licensing system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e16736	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 4 December 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government in the form of a regulation to ensure that the attendance class 2 is also taken into account for the child’s living costs in consensual deductions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e16756	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 4 December 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government to determine whether Norsk Typing’s playing cards respect general privacy considerations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e16775	During the debate, 15 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 6, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 7, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 8, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left Proposals No. 9 and 10, by Mr Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 11, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right and Left Proposal No. 12, by Svein Flätten on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 13, by Aud Kvalbein on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 14, from Aud Kvalbein on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 15, from Lars Sponheim on behalf of Left Proposal No. 5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, has been converted into a proposal for transmission. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government set up a professionally based selection, which is entrusted with the task of reviewing the regulation of the Norwegian financial and credit markets, in the light of the financial crisis. The aim is to ensure that regulation is adapted to the challenges of a globalised economy and that the regulatory regime contributes to ensuring the proper functioning of national markets. The Committee shall also assess whether the tasks and resources of the credit supervision are adapted to the challenges.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e16816	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 15 from the left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e16896	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e16962	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e17013	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 12 from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e17117	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e17133	The proposals are then put to the vote. 9 and 10, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e17269	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e17320	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e17335	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e17387	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e20065	Those who vote for the setting, use the pre-button and sit, those who vote against, use the counter-button and stand up. The vote boards showed that 75 votes were cast and 0 votes against the vote. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.51.07]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e20074	The position of the Committee was then unanimously endorsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e20081	During the debate, Jørund Rytman has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose a ban on the publication of the tax lists, in combination with a system of concession for access to the tax lists, where specific information on the individual taxpayer is needed.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e20433	It's voted first over the cape. 582 with posts 60 and 61, which the Progress Party and the Right have notified that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e20446	It is then voted over the remaining chapters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e20752	It's voted first over the cape. 670 item 72, which the Progress Party has notified that they wish to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e20765	It is then votered over heading 71 under the heading. 670 and the other chapters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e20779	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e20804	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Board of Governors shall request the amendment of the Statute and shall give its representative voting rights in the Management Board.’;» The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e20831	There is a vote on the proposal by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 9 December 2008: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide for a transitional arrangement for persons entitled to benefits under the exemption rules of Ot.prp. [[2008-2009]] No 8 who have previously received a refusal to apply for a disability pension, as justified by the 3-year rule, which would otherwise be eligible for disability pension on the basis of normal criteria.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e20850	There is a vote on the proposal by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 9 December 2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that NAV Foreign is given an unconditional obligation to inform Norwegian citizens who move abroad for a longer period of time than the provisions of popular security to maintain rights in social security about the consequences of foreign residence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-12-15.ana.ud2230e20873	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
