ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e86	An application for sick leave has been submitted to the representative of Vera Lyskleatt from 3 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Bjørg-Irene Östrem, shall be called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e105	The Bjørg-Irene Østrem is present and will take a seat. The representative of Torbjørn Hansen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e110	I would like, on behalf of Mr Røbekk Nørve, Mr Halleraker, Mr Vallersnes and myself, to present a proposal for a representative to review the activities of the Maritime Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e115	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e128	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e137	The proposal before us today is as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to resume publication of the results of the national tests for each school.’ In essential respects, the Committee is grouped together. This is that the national tests are part of the national quality assurance system, where one has to find out whether the basic skills of the students are in line with the objectives of the programme of the Knowledge Lift. Implicit in this is, of course, that the goal is quality in education. The setting indicates that there has actually been a period of non-national testing, almost two years. Looking back at the previous tests, one sees that there was a good deal of discussion and some frustration around these tests. The important actors, students, and teachers had strong results against the tests. Professional environments, such as: The Institute for Teacher Training and School Development considered that the tests did not function satisfactorily. With this in mind, the national tests were stopped. Then we have come to the second point where the Committee fully agrees, namely that it is essential that broad support for national tests be brought together and that this be done best in dialogue with, among other things. parents, teacher and student organisations. In the period when there were no national tests, an active person worked to create a good dialogue to do better. Both the previous government and the current one believe it is important that the national tests do not facilitate the ranking of schools. Right at this point, the propulsion part stands out, because they do not support this in the committee treatment. The results of the national tests are presented today at the school portal.no. In order to obtain results from individual schools, an entry into a registered section available to each school, teacher, student and school owner - i.e. those most needed for the results of their quality work. Although there has been a lot of discussion in the cold water of the national samples last harvested, this discussion has been more related to the results than to whether the samples were to be carried out as such. Then we have come where we want, that is, that the national tests should be one instrument, which, together with other information, will provide enough information on where the student is knowledgeable, so that any action can be taken. In this context, it is important to remember that the earlier an action is taken, the better it is for the student. We have a lot of knowledge about the school now and then. I mention: TIMMS, PISA, evaluation of Reform 97, the CIVIC study, PIRLS, national and international research, the Education Inspectors and the Student Inspectors. Locally, we also have a lot of knowledge: work environment studies, student environment studies, exam results and national tests. So are we going to let the information that's up today slip away, or are we going to demand improvement? It's in this context that we need to see national tests. If some tests reveal problems at a school, school owners and parents must be open about it and join forces for improvements. In my opinion, one of the main tasks of municipal politicians is to contribute to the school, among other things. invites parents to cooperate. And that's exactly what happened in many municipalities. Let me quote from the Internet pages of the Education Directorate, where it says: ‘In the newspapers we can read about school owners who take action to strengthen their skills in reading, billing and reading in English. This is a development that is in line with the purpose of the national tests, namely to increase knowledge and to provide a basis for improvement and development work locally and centrally.’ And let it be clear, as it has been for our part for many, many years: we want a qualitatively good basic training. This is nothing new. ‘We will be brief if the knowledge requirement is not put into focus and students’ working habits need to be stimulated for concrete knowledge-building’ – these are not my words, but the Labour Party’s policy from 1987. And it wasn't without reason that the Stoltenberg I government reduced the quality selection. The reason was simple: more quality. My conclusion can then be that, on the basis of our desire for quality and tranquility around the national tests, we do not believe that the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e175	This case has been a recurring topic in this storeroom on many occasions. The reason, of course, is that the most important task of the school, if you're going to do a ranking of these, is to give students knowledge and build professional insight. It appears that there is a certain consensus that we should now be able to measure this success, but we should not be able to compare the degree of success of different schools. It has been appropriate for several rounds to have doubts as to whether the results of the national tests should be published at all. The starting point was that Council of State Djupedal said that the results of these tests should not be published. Then there's been a process along the way. In oral Question Time some time ago, the Prime Minister was horrified that these national tests were not except for publicity, and so it was to a large extent public, which was also subsequently joined by the Council of State Solhjell. The Prime Minister said here from the Chair of the Great Britain: ‘It is therefore possible to call today, use the Public Service Act, and access the data, but we have not provided the means for ranking, just to avoid the fight and problems we had the last time we had national tests.’ Now this proposal does not propose to facilitate ranking to a greater extent than the Government has stated. But then the government parties run some kind of double communication here. They say on the one hand, in the Questionnaire, that they should be open for publication. It is also stated in the committee opinion that the Committee ‘shows that the results of national tests are public’. But then you're just going to turn one page backwards, to the majority remark from the government parties and the Christian People's Party. So it says that the majority "emphasises that it is difficult to avoid ranking in any other way than by being reluctant to publish individual results". Are you really for the publication of individual results, or are you not? This kind of double communication makes it necessary to examine this proposal today and it is necessary to clarify clearly that the national tests should be public. The Progress Party then deviates from the other opposition parties at one point. It's that we don't deny that ranking schools can be a positive thing. It's presented as if it can be depressing, and that schools that are poorly ranked get bad reputation, etc. There is no secret today that in the community there is a fairly good knowledge of which schools are considered to be good and which are considered to be less good. National tests can help us to understand what makes the difference as local decision-makers. What makes some schools better than others? That kind of comparison does not want the government parties - in so far as no other parties - to facilitate. So what do you do? Indeed, what is actually being done when, on the one hand, the information is published, but on the other hand, it is not possible for the public to make a sort of ranking in any way, is for others to make that ranking. It is strange that it should be better to rank on the pages of the Online Newspaper, such as: The online newspaper did 4 February this year. Then a reading of the ranking of the different schools -- which schools were best, which schools were worst. But there was no quality assurance in addition to the fact that the Net Newspaper had done so. It is strange that one from all other parties, in particular from the government parties, fears so much that they think it is better that some outside the organisational systems of the public quality assurance system carry out this ranking. It seems remarkable, and that's also why the Progress Party says that transparency is important. We believe transparency and to the extent that some form of ranking can help to ‘pushe’ the schools in the future. The goal is for Norwegian school to improve. Norwegian students will receive the best possible training offer. Then we have to have insight, we have to have knowledge, and we have to be able to see schools in relation to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e191	In Norway, we have traditionally been most concerned with ensuring that schools have good economic conditions and planning for school content and how training is to be done. We've checked to a very small extent whether this is consistent with reality. For example, we have had the aim of ensuring that all pupils receive appropriate training. However, the evaluation of Reform 97 showed that there was just a lack of adapted training which led to large differences in pupils’ learning outcomes. We have also calculated that Norwegian school, to a greater extent than school in many other countries, helped to balance the differences between students due to different social backgrounds. But then international and national surveys show that this is not the case. The harsh judgment of the Workers' Party's Universities School tells us that it not only continues social differences but deepens and strengthens them. If we're going to be able to do something about the problems we have, in practice, it's absolutely essential that we get systematic knowledge of all aspects of school, and that this is publicly available. Knowledge of the school depends on knowledge of the school. A few years ago, Norway was one of the few countries in Western Europe that did not have a national quality assessment system. The previous government made sure that it was introduced as part of a comprehensive effort to get the most knowledge of the school. For government parties, it is important and positive to measure and publish the school’s air quality, learning environment, student well-being, bullying, number of PCs, efficiency, teacher density, resource use and much more. This is the goal that everyone in the main hall shares. They therefore believe that it is important for anyone who wants access to this type of information to receive it, but they do not believe that it is equally important that those who want information about what the school teaches the children have the same public demand. It's a special paradox to note that one of the parties in government, the Socialist Left Party, is hot followers of full transparency about the tax lists, all the way down to the individual level. Then there is no problem, neither with privacy nor with ranking. But as soon as we start discussing what the school teaches the students, and the school content, it suddenly becomes very problematic. For the Right, it has always been rather strange to see that information about learning is controversial, while information about all other aspects of school is not controversial. The government of Stoltenberg II has started a rather unfortunate practice on the issue of the publication of national samples. In the past, there was full transparency about the test results at school level. Now there is only transparency about the average results at national, county and municipal level. But school-level information is therefore public information under the Public Health Act. The government has chosen as a strategy to try to keep what is public information secret. It seems that the Right and other parties in the Storting are a strange practice. The practice has led to the refusal of local councillors to have access to the school results throughout the municipality. They have had to contact the Education Directorate to get the information from the Education Directorate. This has also led to the closure of many municipal government meetings because there should be no open debate about learning in the municipality's schools. Because an improvement in school depends on knowledge, dialogue and local involvement, and it is important to enable the school owners locally to carry out that task, it makes no sense that the discussions of the local government should be secret and closed. Discussions on circuit boundaries and school buildings are open to all, but discussions on content and quality should be closed for non-elected people. It almost seems as if there is a bigger problem for the government that the public is getting to know that the school should be better than actually having a big problem with the quality of some schools. The municipality of Oslo is positive in relation to the results of the national tests. The municipality of Oslo has 37 pst. minority-speaking students, and on paper it might be said that that municipality has greater challenges than many other municipalities. But what's the success recipe in Oslo? Indeed, it is emphasised by both the City Council and the college that systematic testing, transparency of the results of each school and thorough follow-up are the main factors for good results. The right considers that transparency about most possible aspects of school activities is important and correct, because knowledge and open dialogue are an important prerequisite for improvement. In Norway, this is particularly important, precisely because we have left school responsibility to municipalities and county councils, and then municipalities and county councils must have the most knowledge of the school in their own neighbourhood. But openness and dialogue are also very important in a democratic society. It has a democratic self-esteem. That's why it's especially important that the school, which is a community arena where everyone meets sometime in life, is open to transparency and dialogue. It would, in our opinion, be a clear advantage if the Government could facilitate the most accurate information available on the national tests. Therefore, it is also important to contribute to the publication of the information that is available. I would like to address the proposal that the Left, the Advance Party and the Right are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e219	The representative ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e222	The right today presents a proposal in Stortinget that shows that they continue with their ideological project that only leads to trouble, noise and unrest in school. Right wants to continue their tests, which we don't want in School-Norway, and which in no way promotes learning and quality or provides a good national overview of the quality of school. It is necessary that national tests be a good tool for teachers so that they can receive support in their learning work. Evaluation of this year's tests shows that they give it to them. The assessment systems we put into school need to help students and be supportive of them, provide learning and mastery for the students, so that students get good information about what they can do, and what they need to do more. It does the national tests that this government has carried out. Parents also receive the information they need, and municipalities are actively using this in their efforts to improve the quality of school. The national overview of the national tests we have now carried out has led to good and concrete action by this government. From the fall, there will be five more school hours from 1st to 4th grade, which will just be used to improve literacy and get a better understanding of the numbers of the youngest of our students. The spring announcement will assess how to achieve a comprehensive quality system, where national tests will be one of the tools to enhance our evaluation competence and evaluation system in school. But better and more systematic reading and writing training will also be important in this big message. It's serious when many of our children don't learn to read and write well enough, and it's taken Solhjell very seriously. National tests have been introduced at 5th and 8th class stages. It's not random. That's where it's easy to measure, and that's where the objectives of competence are very concrete. The quality of the tests is crucial, and we have to work all the time to get even better quality of these tests. In 2005, the State Council of Djupedal stopped the tests that the Right-Registration had started. This was because professionals, researchers, teachers, and students responded that the tests started were far too bad and did not produce results. The only thing you could use those tests for was a lot of newspaper headlines about which schools, teachers and students could be stamped as failed and bad. Those tests were an ideological project that no one, apart from the management in the Right, wanted. It was tests that were made for the sake of the tests. It was the tests the teachers thought were not good, and parents did not get information about the students' skills. The publication led to boycotts. The teachers took out students who did not master well. It didn't focus on learning, but on results, because what was important in this was what kind of newspaper headlines would come. For everyone knew that what was being measured was the newspaper's big look-up. It was not a primary objective to enhance the quality and competence of schools. The national samples currently made are not suitable for media ranking. They are not made for ranking, and when such ranking occurs, they say nothing at all. In many ways I'm not going to be surprised that the Right wants to continue its ideological project. We see from this proposal that the fight for quality in school is not over, and that it is important for the red-green government to maintain government power after the next major elections in order to ensure good quality in school and get a school that will enhance quality, where our students will learn more and no less. There has never been so much trouble in school as when the Right with its ideological projects started their national tests. SV strongly recommends that all parties do not support the Right proposal in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e248	The primary purpose of national tests is that the school should be better able to adapt training to the individual student’s needs. The tests shall help teachers to find out whether their students meet the learning objectives set. The evaluation of Reform 97 showed us that we have not come far enough with regard to adapted training in Norway. Further studies have also shown that there are considerable differences in learning outcomes among students. The current Minister of Education Jon Lilletun presented the main message «Towards richer objectives», a national strategy for the assessment and quality development of primary and secondary education. One of the key premises was just: ‘The overarching aim of the assessment work in schools and apprenticeships is to improve training for pupils and apprentices and to further develop institutions as learning organisations.’ In order to take action, those responsible for the school need information on the state of the school. It's just like in the orientation loop: To achieve the goal you've set, you need to know where you are at any time. There's always been a big fight around the national tests. Many of the reasons have probably been that there has been little tradition and knowledge of such tests here in the country. But also the extensive ranking of schools in the media was experienced by many teachers, parents and students as very negative and unfair. You don't deserve to be in school today. The aim of the tests is so important that we are served with the greatest possible calmness so that they can be carried out in the best possible way. A continuous evaluation of the national samples is necessary in order to develop and improve them. Such processes must involve both the student, teacher and parent organisations. It has always been clear that one does not want to facilitate the ranking of the students. We believe that today's system provides sufficient information about the test results, while also not actively facilitating ranking. According to the head of the PISA study, Norway’s main challenge is not to vary widely from school to school, but to vary widely between pupils in the same school or classroom. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that publication of the results should not facilitate ranking. We think it's difficult to avoid ranking in a better way than by being reluctant to publish individual results. We will therefore not support this proposal today. The question is who needs the knowledge to improve the results. School owners, principals, teachers, parents and students need that knowledge. Olga in Lund doesn't need that knowledge in the same way to be in and make Lund school a better school. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that it is for the former we are obliged to facilitate transparency. The basic skills are inconsistency and shall not be at the expense of general education. The school shall develop the whole human being through work on values, ethics and culture. When we evaluate quality in school, we have a wide carpet of values and goals to take into account. Therefore, the national tests do not tell the whole and the full truth about the state of the school. Not everything that counts can be counted. There may also be societal challenges around the individual school that are involved and reflect on the outcome, and then a clean publication will help stigmatise rather than solve problems and deliver better results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e275	When I hear the different posts today, they say that the story is known. At the same time, no reference is made to standard tests. We who have worked at school for a number of years before we started politics, know that standard tests are used -- I want to say with good luck -- in many contexts for many years. Now we're on this called the national tests, and that's part of the national quality assurance system. National tests shall provide information as to whether the basic skills of the students are consistent with the objectives of the Disability Plan. National tests shall primarily provide information on the group and stages of teachers, school leaders, municipal, regional and national levels. Also for parents and students, the tests shall provide valuable information on the results at school. In addition, the national tests have, reasonably speaking, pedagogical value. It is important to bring together as broad a connection as possible to the national test set-up. This must be done in close dialogue with parents and teacher and student organisations. Changes and adjustments have been made before the implementation of the national samples in 2007. A new framework for the national tests was developed through a comprehensive process involving relevant professional communities and organisations. The ranking of schools in the media is perceived as negative and unfair by many and can contribute to demotion. I know that there are different political opinions about this, but I have to say that I support this view. It is therefore important that the tests are published in such a way that they can provide a basis for good local and national follow-up and that consideration be given to preventing an unreasonable choice of the use of individual results. It is difficult to avoid ranking in any other way than by being reluctant to publish individual results. We can, for example: think that small schools, of which there are very many in our country, will be particularly vulnerable. At the same time, it is absolutely necessary for the school owners to get involved. The school owners - the municipalities and county councils - must be conscious of their responsibilities, whether they are councillors or political leaders. Municipal level follow-up is required for each school. The example that Eriksen Soreide mentioned, that the adviser sits on the results and keeps them secret, as I see it, is not at all acceptable. The councillor belongs to the school owner's role and has to take the responsibility that this requires, and go talk to the principals about what can be done in this field. Several studies show that there is a strong link between school performance and family background. It is gradually well known in several areas. As late as last night -- this is a digresion -- we could watch television show that children of well-trained parents came to specialists more easily if they were ill than children of uneducated parents. So this applies to all of the fields. But back to school performance: Children with high-educated parents generally succeed better than children of lower-educated parents. This relationship appears to have increased from the early 1990s, and is far more significant for Norwegian students than for students in the other Nordic countries. This means that if everyone has the same access to education and the same formal rights, then one does not have the same opportunities, really. It's tending to say it, but Norwegian society is largely reproducating social differences. We have to do something about this. And if we're going to be able to do something about these problems in practice, we need systematic knowledge of the strengths and weaknesses of the school. In order for municipalities and county municipalities to be active school owners, it is important that they have the best possible basis for discussion. From school, I have heard that there must also be an improvement potential in the types of tasks used in national trials. Multiple electronic samples are requested. In addition, other types of tasks that are faster to deal with are requested, i.e. faster to correct. It's important that the teacher doesn't spend all the time fixing. The time of the teacher must be used for the follow-up of the student, based on the result of the test. It is in this way that national tests can provide meaning, encouragement and progress for individual students.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e294	For one who grew up with a seven-year-old primary school, in a society where the pride of knowledge sat in the walls, and where everyone was concerned about it, today's debate is almost amazing. I wonder if it's a ten-year reverberation when you almost followed the ideal of taking care of the social in school, but the knowledge could be relaxed. If that's right, at least there's no basis for pursuing it, because the party by party -- including my own in the last ten years -- has taken self-criticism at that kind of approach to the school and said that the school has to give solid and thorough knowledge, both practical and theoretical. If you're going to start with the city that I'm in, and that we're meeting in Stortinget, Oslo, it's not many years since you've been trying here. I have had party traps that were bureaucrats in Oslo at the time it was very bad. One of the prerequisites for changing that was that the truth came on the table. And when the truth came on the table, you set goals with learning pressure. The result of learning was measured and changed. I visit schools in this city regularly. Last week I was at a school where some years ago 86 pst. of the seventh-stage students were below the critical limit in Norwegian. The teachers took it seriously, and now it's 40 pst. I'd like to say from this pulpit that it's a huge effort. And I didn't meet down-breathed teachers who didn't know what they were doing. What was their concern and their challenges were not these learning tasks, but many of the other tasks that the school can have. You can have rape episodes, and you can have other situations in school. But I met an insanely strong professional pride in solving it and solving it. One of my party traps, Kjell Veigåg, had the responsibility of the City Council in Oslo to put many of the sad things that were then in Oslo School, on the table. Were they an introduction to depression? No, they became an introduction to strengthening school effort content, strengthening teachers, strengthening school management - strengthening everything that has to do with a good school environment. Did they get an introduction to taking students who don't get it? Because it's true that more people have been involved - among other things. The representative Eriksen - that there are great variations within schools. No, it was the entrance to see the individual and lift it professionally. That's why it's really amazing that we're going to deal with the national tests as if it were some kind of freemasonry we're talking about-- that's not it. Everyone agrees that you can get hold of it. The majority believe that if you look long enough in suitable channels for that, you get hold of it. Then the representative ine Marie Eriksen Soreide says that sometimes, in the extreme, closed municipal council meetings have been held. No, it is to be found in Norwegian municipalities that it becomes common to discuss the content of the school, as usual as to discuss the nature of the ventilation system and the number of school buildings to be built. You have to be able to discuss the content and be concerned about it. I think, of course, that if politicians don't show respect to the school, they don't show respect to the teacher. But if you take something that needs to be improved, and say that this job we're going to do together, yeah, you get that pride in a teacher's corps that's turned 86 pst. to 40 pst. in the case of non-compliance with the critical limit in Norwegian. And they're going to do better, just because they're set on it. I've been to a lot of such schools. I've been to a school in the inner east of Oslo, Hersleb, which has often had a problem with reputation. It's got a crazy great teacher's staff. When Oslo’s politicians realized that they were facing, among other things, The problem of poverty, what did they do? Well, then it was said that this school should also have a centre of expertise to tackle challenges that are specific to parts of the inner east of Oslo. You don't have to approach the debate almost as if you were shaded. You have to approach it openly and honestly to get -- to say it with my late mother-in-law -- abb: everything on the table. And you don't take it on the table to do something wrong with it, but to keep it up and deal with it in such a way that you're proud. It is a Swedish socialist slogan - and I repeat it very often - that is: «Be proud, but not satisfied». The starting point of that slogan is that one recognizes what one can, and then really and properly says what one should do better. I'm educated in this society that was the result of the Left State and the Social Democratic Party's project called Knowledge Is Power. That's why I was very surprised that we were going to have this shadow boxing around the national samples. Openness and honesty are prerequisites to set honest ambitions for all students, to start a mastering and learning pressure that makes you have a chance to cope, to stick with, in the very basic areas. That's why the Left, based on its experience both nationally and not least in Oslo, will be able to turn around in this city with great effort - a city of 38 pst. linguistic minorities and many other challenges - of course, vote in favour of the proposal we have today with the Progress Party and the Right in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e320	In September 2007, all 5 and 8 year-old students carried out national reading, accounting and reading tests in English, after a break from national tests of almost two years. When you listen to a lot of the opposition today, you might get the impression that it must have been a failure. The truth is that the completion was successful, and the results of the tests from the schools were good. The reason why we have done so well is that we have done a thorough professional work. In addition, there has been a good dialogue with the organisations, and there has been a great deal not to publish the results of the tests at school level. On behalf of the Education Directorate, Synnovate MMI has conducted a questionnaire on the implementation of the national samples. There are answers from schoolteachers, teachers, elephants and parents/present at a representative selection of 500 basic balls. The study was published on 1 March 2008 and shows that the information on the national tests has reached all user groups. A large number of school leaders and teachers believe that the information material is of good quality. This is a significant improvement compared with the last national tests carried out in 2005. Three out of four elephants had received feedback of their own results on the samples at the time the examination was carried out. That is good, but it must be even better in the future. Most parents/continuers provide information that they have received feedback about the results for their child. In 2005, a large proportion of students received no feedback on their own results of the national tests. More teachers than schoolteachers think that the tests only provide some information about the students they didn't know in advance. At the same time, only a small minority, 2 pst., say that they do not plan to follow up the results. There are more schoolteachers and teachers in 2007 than in 2005 who believe that national tests provide information on how to strengthen training for the individual and the student groups. I'm really happy with these results. At the same time, we must work for even better results in the future. The tests follow public health law. The government insists that we do not want to facilitate the ranking of schools, even if it does happen in the media. It is mainly the schools and municipalities that will use the results of the school-level tests as a starting point for a discussion of the quality of the training and what needs to be done to improve the results of the examinations. The investigation shows that it has been done. The biggest challenge for Norway is the big differences we have within each school. It is a challenge for schools, municipalities and national authorities to take seriously. Then we don't just have to be concerned with differences between the schools. Andreas Schleicher, who runs the PISA project in the OECD, pointed out when he was in Oslo in December 2007. I don't say this in order to sub-communicate that there are important differences between the schools in Norway - it's important that schools can learn from those who are good - but on the contrary to stress that in all schools in Norway there are elephants who can be followed up better, who can't get out of their potential, there's more to go on for the schooling and the teachers, and there's too much difference between the students in the school. Finland is the country that achieves the best results in the PISA studies. The country does not have a comprehensive system of mandatory national tests, and they do not publish the results of the tests. They are able to assess and follow-up the individual student so that additional efforts can be put into the training early. In Denmark, the government on the right has agreed that the results of national tests cannot be published. The results of the tests should be easily accessible to those who need them. The balls shall have access to their own results immediately. Elevar and parents/employee shall receive feedback on the results of the individual school student. Results at municipality level are available. The Bondevik government published the results of national trials at school level. This was a contributing cause for conflict over the tests and boycotts from many elephants in further training. Many teachers were also skeptical and perceived the tests as a control mechanism rather than as a hub for quality development for each school. Now we have peace of mind about the national tests, and implementation has been successful. It has been widely agreed that national tests are useful guides for schools and municipalities, and that there is a need for better knowledge of the benefits of training. This gives us a good starting point for further work on developing the national quality assessment system. We will come back to that for several rounds later. I would like to stress that the objective is to achieve a good national quality development system, not a ranking system. This must be done in a way that ensures that it is actually used in the school. That's what's the big difference between doing the tests now and under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e352	As I mentioned in my post, there has been some disagreement as to whether the individual results are public or not. Now both the Council of State and the Prime Minister have said that the results of the national tests are public. It is also confirmed in the committee setting. On page 1, at the end of column 2, it is stated that the Committee ‘shows that the results of national tests are public’. On page 2, however, it says something slightly different, because it says that the majority -- these are the government parties plus the Christian People's Party -- emphasizes that ‘it is difficult to avoid ranking in any way other than by being reluctant to publish individual results’. So you have to be reluctant to publish publicly available information. How, in practice, will the Council of State be able to implement this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e362	I see that in the committee position there is a minority who claim that there has been disagreement between the Minister of Knowledge and the Prime Minister. The representative Anundsen repeats that claim, even though he now claims that the discrepancy is not there. I have at no time seen any kind of documentation or anything like that. On the contrary, there is a complete consensus in the Government about the whole way. We've said exactly the same thing, that the results are public, but that we don't facilitate ranking, as the Soria Moria statement also says. We're just doing it as a multiple in the committee setting. Samples aren't independent publicity, they're public. But we don't facilitate ranking by actively publishing the results at school level. It's our government's policy all the way, and that's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e367	There are many who have claimed that one of the main reasons for facilitating a school-level publication is to provide the most accurate information that gives a picture of what students have learned. We're all aware that national tests don't tell us all about what students can do, but at least they give us a picture that you can't ignore. Therefore, it would have been reasonable if the Government had arranged for a publication that was as accurate as possible and that took into account the factors that affect children's learning - in addition to the school. But the Council of State says in its statement that the results at school level should be easily accessible to those who need it. In Trondheim, then, one of the municipal directors got no from the councillor to deliver the results of the individual Trondheim schools. He had to go through the Directorate of Education to access the data and then access all data for the whole of School Norway — absolutely all schools throughout Norway that had carried out the national tests. Does the Council of State think it is easy to have the results available to those who need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e374	I don't know about the single pisode. On the other hand, I have just reviewed and documented the general picture when it comes to accessing the results of the Group Group, and have compared to the government supported by the representative Eriksen Soreide in the previous period. In fact, several residents and parents have access to the results, several elephants do, and teachers and schoolteachers have better access to the results. But not least, and most importantly, I also say that the results give more meaning, are more used, and that they will actually be followed up. So the fact is that the results are used for quality improvement, and that the information is far better than in the previous period. That's the goal of the samples. That's what we've achieved, and I actually thought that one should start to acknowledge, instead of conducting the somewhat desert-free debate on ranking.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e379	The episode from Trondheim School I know. It has been locally debated and looked at in depth. Doesn't the Council of State see that making it most difficult to get access to something that's publicly available, actually mystifies something that you can actually get, and that instead of doing something that I think the Council of State has put the emphasis on today, that we should learn, use the knowledge, build learning pressures, have ambitions on behalf of all students, with this mystification almost making it a little wig to get hold of it? It's clear that the example from Trondheim, where a prominent person in the administration has to look to get something, and finally get it through the Education Directorate, tells us that you're on a siding. Then you don't have the learning pressure in focus. Doesn't the Council of State see that this doesn't - let's say - demystify the results? When we agree not to rank, doesn't he see that it can take the attention away from what we all agree on, namely the learning pressure, the mastering goal, on behalf of all students?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e388	I have to repeat that I actually don't know the individual pisode to which this is referred. But otherwise, I agree that even though we are well pleased that many more have received the information - and it also turns out that the tests and results from there are used more than before as a traveler to assess and develop quality - we have a lot to go on. The example might be that we see that we have strict data protection requirements in connection with the tests. This has been a challenge, especially in some smaller municipalities with small schools and small groups. We need to find a better solution in the future, which also ensures that the administration and politicians in all municipalities have a good chance of using it as a quality development tool. When it comes to the debate on ranking here, I think the government has found a good way to implement it that is actually being used, while the opposition still wants to focus on that very part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e395	Municipalities and county councils have the ambition to have high quality and efficiency in production. Vision and feeling are not enough to achieve this. Therefore, more and more emphasis is placed on the use of measurable indicators to improve activities. The stasis analysis is a tool used to convert the promise of knowledge - from word to action, and this analysis is based on the results of the student survey and on national samples, while at the same time assessing this against what is called best practice. How does the Council of State feel that school staff should have a sense of best practice in learning outcomes when compared to other schools to a limited extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e404	It is not true that they do, because the schools and municipalities get the results of the national tests. This means that the rental in each municipality has a good opportunity to compare schools. It is also such that results at municipal level are made public and actively published, so that one has a good chance of doing so. Then, of course, the Knowledge Lift - from words to actions and the use of stand-by analyses and other tools to support whether the individual school has shown itself to be a very useful tool many places around the country. One reason is that one of them has a reasonably good data base, based on the results of the elephants and through them, for example. student studies and other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e411	I thought I would continue the dialogue with the Council of State. After a very good answer, in my opinion, where the Council of State says we have to know enough, we have ambitions, and there's a lot more to do -- and we agree on that -- the Council of State finally says, in the last sentence, that it's the opposition that's trying to figure out something else. All right. Let's do Oslo. I am absolutely convinced that in this city, as I know very well, by 38 pst. linguistic minorities, it was absolutely vital to go through the painful maneuver of getting everything on the table, then systematically working at school and in the municipality as a whole. Today, when you get good results in Oslo, you say that this is because there are so many resource - powerful parents. Ten years ago, it was said that the bad results were due to so many minorities. The truth is, there's been a crazy pressure to mobilize parents, teachers and school management, because you got the truth on the table. This hasn't been a reality where you've been trying to poke someone out, it's been a reality where you wanted to mobilize. I don't recognize myself in the Council of State's description of how to work with progressive school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e420	What I meant in my post was not to say anything wrong either about Oslo or about other municipalities. There are quite a number of municipalities in Norway, Oslo is one of them, which is doing a good and systematic job of developing the school in the municipality. There are many different reasons why the municipalities do well. But one reason is that the many places are busy looking at how the students are doing, and what they are actually learning, that they have good people who are good at following this up, and that they are demanding the principals and the individual teacher to do something about the results and actually use them for improvement and to see the individual student. But I'm enough of the opinion that the very one-sided focus in the debate on the national quality development system on whether to actively rank at school, which the opposition has been busy with, is not the most fruitful debate, on the contrary, we should be concerned about whether it's being used, whether it's understood in school, about the information when it's going to. There we have seen a clear progress in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e428	The cord shift is over. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e433	I'm a little worried about the last statement to the council of state in the line change here, because he says that it's not safe to talk about publicity or about publicly available results. It's very important, not just in relation to the quality system at school, but in a general discussion about how it exempts public information from the public. I think it was interesting to witness to the representative Jensen's comprehensive description of the publication of the national samples in the previous period of government: they were only suitable for one thing, and it was for large newspaper essays. Well, how's it getting better now? Last year there was a tough look-up in the World Gang, this year there was a tough look-up in Nettavisen. The model government has put itself on, does not prevent the ranking of schools. There is nothing in the model outlined, either by the representative of Jensen or by the Council of State, that would mean less media focus on this in the future. It's just one way to do it, that's to say that we're not going to publish the results of the national tests. We're going to keep it a secret, keep it to ourselves. Then you want to achieve that it won't be ranked. But no one has said that they want, at least they don't dare to say it directly. It has been said from this pulpit today that it is politicians who have to assess who really needs this knowledge. It has been said that Olga in Lund does not need knowledge of the level of Lund school. No, so it's the politicians who have to decide this. But Olga at Lund can be the grandmother of Ole in fourth grade and to Line in second grade at Lund School. And then we're going to sit in here and say that Olga on Lund doesn't need that information! She is then equally interested in how the school of her granddaughter is ranked, how it is based on the professional level, as for example. The parents of the children are. Ranking is said to be unfair. Yes, there is much that can be experienced unfairly. To avoid injustice, one thing is absolutely crucial. It's that we're open, that we're honest, that we have equal terms. It will ensure publication at school level. The council also says something interesting about the comment on the committee number: when you talk about preventing publication, it's the own publication they're supposed to prevent - so they're not going to publish the ranking themselves. It's okay, then everything is so much better when it's done by the Times of the World and the Newspaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e451	First, I think the Council of State is about to make a skin debate that is not the basis for that. There is no one in this room who disagrees that it is good for the national tests to be developed. It was just supposed to be missing. Of course, they weren't perfect when they were introduced. No one had any illusions that they were either. Of course, they develop as you gain knowledge about how they work, what can be improved, what it takes to make them become even better tools for learning and adapted training. No one disagrees with it, nor should the Council of State try to produce it like this. I also think he's trying to make a skin debate that goes on that the opposition is very concerned with ranking schools. As he said in one of his answers: ‘ if we are to actively rank at school level, by which the opposition has been occupied [[...]] [[...]] The opposition has been concerned about one thing: to continue the system that was in place during the previous government, when results were published at school level, but, of course, did not actively facilitate ranking. Then I think it's a little interesting to notice what the Prime Minister said in the Questionnaire on 30 January this year. After saying that it is possible to call today, use the Public Relations Act and access the data, the Prime Minister continued: ‘Communists, teachers, school owners get access to data, and newspapers that want, can call and get access - rankings of schools have been in several newspapers I have read’. Does it mean, then, that it is still the government's policy that we should change the practice that is, that school results are public information? How else are they supposed to prevent it from being printed in the paper that one school is better than the other? The representative Lena Jensen was very busy telling me that the Right would continue its ideological project. It's with respect to report a strange description. If there is one batch that has turned back and forth in relation to what they think about national tests and openness, it's just SV. In 2003, SV was open about results at school level, so suddenly SV was against national tests, so they were in favour, and now we could read in Today's Business just after New Year's, that the school council Solhjell was for more tests than we have today. If there is one party on the Stortinget that has been uncertain about what they think about national tests, it is exactly SV. Finally, Vahl school in Oslo got a real break in 2003 because they had very poor reading results for their students. They have 97 pst. Minority students, and the mentality was abruptly changed when there was publicity around the fact that very many students at Vahl school were out of their way to acquire basic skills. So they took it, it became a national demonstration school in 2005 and today has very good reading results, also for those students who did not have good reading results last time. No one has to tell me or anyone else that it doesn't have to do with a public and open debate about what didn't work at Vahl school, and what had to happen to make them better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e474	I must say I was quite surprised when I heard the representative Jensen's tiger. It looks like you're taking the dictionary and finding all the worst words you can think of about politics, and then you touch it together and say it's Right School Policy. The same applies when Solhjell describes that there has been an ‘active ranking’. That's never been the question. Then you could rather go back and see where we had been with the wing we now see from SV, which goes as the representative Eriksen said: back and forth. Where would the school be then? You didn't know which direction to go. What I think you're going to have very much respect for compared to the previous period is that introducing the national tests was actually a system change. It is obvious that there needs to be some anxiety and some trouble around it in a society that has been allowed to live without significant insight from outside the world for quite many years. What Solhell then describes is just a learning process. Everyone acknowledges that the national samples were not good enough as a first draft. But there is only one learning process in the system Solhjell describes, and he floats on that others actually took the fight. We need to know about school to know what to do with school. That leads to the next one, which the representative of Dørum has been involved in, namely that the fact that you have gained transparency around this has led to an amazing commitment around the school outside. Now it's not that all local politicians actually know what to deal with, it's not all who are as tough as those in Trondheim who dare to go to the Education Directorate and demand results. There's a lot of doubt about what's going on and what's going on here, and there's no doubt that openness around the results has led to a very good debate around the school. We have local school ownership in the schools. In the ultimate sense, the choice is the school owner in Norway, by putting together the local government that will actually manage the school. If the voter is not given the proper analyses of the school, then it is a secret that the representative Anundsen was in, who really suggests that you start to wonder about the contents of the school. That's what makes it incredibly interesting to start messing around in: why isn't there openness around this? The only purpose of the proposal is to have good information about the school out to the voters in the way you earn it. I noticed earlier that Dørum was concerned about discussing this as openly as a ventilation system. In fact, we do not discuss ventilation systems very openly either, as this shows the debate about the indoor climate in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e489	I have a basic view that both ventilation systems, results and other conditions both in the school and in other areas should be discussed. We're going to try to gather the threads here a little bit now. The quality selection proposed, in due course, the introduction of a national quality development system where national samples were a major component. So, as far as I know, all the parties in this hall were represented. It has been widely agreed that we need good national tests, but there has been a considerable debate on how to organise and set up these tests, so that they are used for improvement. It's no wonder there's been such a big debate about it, because if we look around the world and look at countries it's natural to compare with -- to use such an outline -- there's a very big difference in how to do it. Our three neighbouring countries - Finland, Sweden and Denmark - do so for example. in very different ways, on a very different scale and with very different degrees of national governance compared to local governance. Other OECD countries also do so in very different ways. There are very different experiences, so it's not strange that we have such a debate. What I think, on the other hand, is a key point, and I am pleased that the representative Eriksen Soreide underlines it, is that we are open to some that we have had a clear improvement in how we have carried out national tests from 2005 until 2007. The investigation that has been carried out demonstrates this very clearly, both in terms of the availability of information and who receives it, and not least in terms of the use of results. Then we're a couple of people about it, but then the question is that a published result from the schools in 2005 and not doing it now has absolutely nothing to do with the improvement? Or might it have? My opinion is very clear that it was part of what created great resistance, little willingness to use the results, a lot of scepticism, contributed to boycotting and less understanding of the tests in 2005. There were other important reasons, including: professional weaknesses, so that the tests were not as good as they should, but that was part of the picture. We have major challenges with regard to the national tests ahead, there's no doubt about it. We should get even better use of them. It must also be such that a person has resources and room for action locally to do something about the weaknesses being discovered. We need to develop the tests themselves even better, look at how the systems can get better - digitization was called an important point there. I urge all of us to address the challenges ahead, instead of conducting the debate that we have now had to such an extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e502	SV has always been concerned with quality in school. We've been busy having a national system that ensures this quality in school. When we were against the national tests that the right-wing government introduced in the last period, it was because we saw that this did not lead to more quality and more learning for the students. The national tests introduced by this government are very different from the previous, because we now see that these are used as a local tool for teachers, for parents, for students and not least for municipalities. The way the previous government organized the tests, created troubles and unrest in the school. It was an ideological project in which the main point of these tests was to rank the schools, an ideological project in which one believed that competition should promote learning. But what happened was, among other things, that students boycotted the rehearsals and teachers asking the students to stay home - that is, the same thing that happened in other nations where they had been published. I would urge the Right to follow the line that the Danish bourgeois government has done. In fact, they have taken steps to prohibit the publication of the national samples. This is SV busy. The national tests have now been used to let the students know where they are, where they are going, and how they can develop further. It is important for SV to have an integrated national quality system. I am very pleased that the Council of State has announced that this will come in the big news coming this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e511	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e514	When we sit in Stortinget and discuss a matter that I perceive all the parties seem to be important, each in its own way, I would have expected that one also had a minimum amount of inferiority in what you say and do. It is totally unsustainable that SV should stand and claim that the main objective of the national tests introduced under the previous government was ‘an ideological project’ which aimed to rank schools. The representative Lena Jensen and everyone else in this room know very well that the main point of the national tests when they were introduced was to create better learning for the students, more adapted training. It was basically a way of trying to get school policy back on track, after we had suffered for so many years that no one should know what happened, no one should know what was wrong, and no one should know what one could learn from each other, because you had no mechanisms to run quality control, you had no mechanisms to check that what we did actually worked. Therefore, it was so important, both for Norway and for other countries, to introduce quality assessment systems. That was the background, not to run an ideological project for the ranking of schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e521	I know very well what happened in the Bondevik II administration. I was a member of the government on the Knowledge Lift. I know why we got a knowledge promise. We had plenty of knowledge through evaluation and school research in Norway to know that an incredible number of people could not read and write. We had to do something. We had to set knowledge and practical learning goals and achieve them. The promise of knowledge is later adopted by the government that is now sitting, and that's good. It's formed a new line. During this period, the Workers' Party, at the Anniken Huitfeldt before she became the Council of State, has taken a thorough self-criticism that one has had a relaxed relationship with school, not taken knowledge seriously. There's going to be other relationships. That's good, so we can get back to what's happening in practice-- but that's good. During the same period, for example: The school historian Alfred Oftedal Telhaug has had a bitter settlement in the class struggle with the SV's classical school policy and the programme chosen by the Council of State for Solhjell, which is based on the almost non-responsiveness of the basics of the school, namely knowledge, theoretical and practical - taking students seriously and having a learning obligation. This was the basic project. That the project in its framework has become a joint ownership is good. Then, of course, the fight remains, which also comes in the next case. Then it's not enough just to have the words, then you also have to have the actions. Now part of the project was that in order to have a learning pressure you had to know the state of things. When you knew that, you should use it to strengthen the teachers, support the teachers in their work, give students ambitions, simply return to the school tradition that I myself grew up in 50 years ago, where it was called: knowledge is power -- we all see, we take care of them, we take care of them. We were quite proud of what we were doing! It is this tradition that is now being renewed and used again. And if there's any ideological project in it that an SV representative should take along, it's the old Left State project, that knowledge is power. Without knowledge that is solid, you have no chance, either as a citizen of a society or as a practical member of society when you're going to find work, nutrition and manage it. So this description of reality is going to be very strange. The active substances are used to ensure that they have a good result. The goal was to restore knowledge. The goal was to give students ambitions. The goal was to create adapted training. Then one must dare to get the truth on the table. Then one had to dare to put learning pressure. So the story written by the representative Lena Jensen is completely out of the question! In particular, it is alarming at a time when SV at the beginning of this ageing period became a philanthropist in public debate, because they had set aside something as fundamental and important in school as putting knowledge and ambitions in the students first. The project was to get the school back on this course. Knowledge is important. Knowledge printing is important. We need respect in a school situation, so that teachers and students can work together and discipline. It was the project, and eventually it has become a common project. Left's happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e532	Anders Anundsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e536	If this is to be done as a debate on ideological projects, which the representative Jensen is trying to do, perhaps it should be remembered that the SV’s ‘ideological project’ was to remove the national tests. Now SV appears to be one of the warmest defenders of the national tests, so ideological projects in SV obviously have quite a short duration. But that was essentially not what I wanted to say. The Council of State here says that he agrees and cares that this should be discussed openly. I guess that's good. What is worrying is that those who are going to discuss this openly do not have access to the information they need. It doesn't help to want an open discussion about something just a few people know about. The whole point of this proposal is to give everyone equal opportunity and access to information to participate in a discussion on how to develop and improve the quality of Norwegian school. It doesn't help having discussions if we don't know what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e545	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2694]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e560	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e569	The Committee shall today examine the Left's proposal on teacher's lift for primary and secondary school teachers. The Committee points out that the issues of different measures to improve teacher competence have been addressed and dealt with on several occasions in the form of representative proposals in the United Kingdom in recent times. The status of the individual batches has therefore been made visible through their treatment. The Committee has also been very concerned about the importance of seeing the coherence of the various proposals for representatives that have been promoted, as the rapporteurs have also pointed out in their presentation. Furthermore, we believe that it is important to implement measures for teachers who are already in school today, so that today’s students too can benefit from the changes. This has been one of the main messages of the Committee's work. The minority in the Committee would like to see changes to the regulations of the Training Act to ensure that the requirements of competence are linked to the teaching of individual subjects, not only to employment. However, the greatest frustration is linked enough to the fact that, over and over again, concrete action by the minority - which does not receive support - is being proposed pending various large-scale notifications to be made. Showing action is one of the most important skills that politicians can have. From the political point of view of the Progress Party, it is to make words of action one of the most important in areas where the Committee must be conscious of its responsibilities, in addition to being able to influence the Government at the same time. In particular, we will point to the failure of continuing education that has taken place for a number of years - in terms of volume, but most of all in terms of content. Further training measures have often been more about describing the changes that you would like to introduce than giving professional introduction to schools as part of updating and following up on ongoing needs. Despite the fact that national surveys have shown that there has been a serious failure in teacher training in individual subjects, the emphasis in continuing training has in fact been placed on pedagogical themes. In the 2008 state budget, 375 million were committed. the development of skills, but with a priority focus on competence in individualisation. We believe it would have been far more important to focus on other areas. In the light of the views of the Progress Party, a strong stimulus should be provided for further training in the basic subjects, such as Norwegian, mathematics and other real subjects. Furthermore, the funds allocated to the development of competences may not appear to be available, but will land in a shared pool in a dwindled municipal fund. It has been shown that many municipalities distribute little funds directly to schools, but instead use funds at municipal level. Furthermore, in the Progress Party, we wish to highlight the importance of ensuring that individual teachers are given the right to an obligatory and individual training plan. Many teachers are in desperate need of professional updating, but we often see that teachers who really need this further training are not in line. ==References== In fact, one in four teachers has not spent any time professionally developing reading in the last two years, and 24 pst. Of the three that have spent time, have spent less than six hours. This is a cross of thought, because with an obligatory and individual plan, we would just be able to reach these teachers, and we would be able to reach where the need is greater. The theme of class management has been updated to an even greater extent in view of the proportion affected by fighting and unrest in the classroom. Being a good leader is not an innate quality, but requires knowledge of the leadership role and not least training as well as experience at the educational and human level. We cannot expect newly educated teachers to be good class leaders when this has not been an integral part of teacher training. This is why we believe that continuing training in this area could increase the learning outcomes for each individual student as well as give positive ring-fences in a number of other areas. Action is urgently needed. Therefore, frustration is great among us in the Progress Party, among teachers and among parents out there, because there is so little happening. It's time to take this seriously. We can't predict the outcome in ten years. That's now we have to start this, precisely because there are children in school today who may not get the benefit of it if we go waiting for something to happen. Then I would just like to say that the proposals in the matter will be promoted later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e599	I think I'd like to start by saying that there are several good intentions and intentions in the proposals of the proposers, but then it might seem that someone has taken a little bit of tran and has not fully absorbed the consequences the proposals will have. An overall committee believes that the teacher is important for the student’s learning outcomes. The teacher's expertise and ability to disseminate that knowledge in a good way are relevant to the knowledge acquired by the student through the school cycle. That's why the government has allocated almost SEK 1.5 billion to development of competence in the period we're in now, and the joy is that this has unsolved a similar effort by the municipalities and county councils, to increase the competence of teachers and school leaders around the whole country. This is particularly true for real science and linguistics. 10pst. of the earmarked funds have been earmarked for continuing training in the natural sciences and the second foreign language. In 2007, more than 1,400 teachers participated in continuing training courses in these two subjects. Furthermore, new additions will be required at the youth level. From August 2008, a minimum of 60 study credits or one year’s study will be required to be taught in the subjects of Norwegian, mathematics and English basic subjects. Further competence requirements at some stages will be assessed. The government has recognized the importance of increasing the teacher's competence. The opposition doesn't mean we're taking this seriously. We do, and we have concrete measures to point to. But in the government parties, we don't settle for that. We shall be the first to say that, despite this significant promise, there is still a need to strengthen the skills of teachers. The question is about a draft representative that we are dealing with today, with the consequences it will have, is the right way to get it done. Here, we're separating layers with the opposition. Each year, through the treatment of the State budget, government parties have provided funds to increase their competence. It's been good until now, and it should be in the future as well. The government is designing the strategy, and in that way we like to listen to the opposition. But then to the competence requirements that an overall opposition is behind. This is where I think the tran effect applies. As I said, the government has already made some demands on youth competence. The general proposals of the opposition will have far-reaching consequences and will be impossible to introduce in the short term. If you're going to take the proposal literally and seriously, and that's what the opposition wants us to do, it means that thousands of teachers have to leave school because they don't have the right skills. Think of the shortage of teachers you'll get! This unintended effect must be taken over by the opposition when it is in favour of such a proposal. In addition, the economic consequences that will be enormous. This is something we cannot do for when it comes as a representative proposal. The educational ban has also referred to the proposal for a demonstration proposal. Our funds have come and will come through the treatment of the State budget. If we raise our eyes a little bit from this specific matter and look forward to it, there are several issues notified by the Government that can help increase the competence of the teachers. There's a big message about quality in primary school. It will be an important matter for the Committee to work on in the future. In addition, there is a call for a separate survey on teacher training and its strengthening. I assume that the government through these messages will provide an assessment of the school's skills needs and how we can meet them. Storing notifications will be based more on closer assessments of impacts and needs than on a representative proposal. It's good that the opposition engages in these questions, and I expect that their commitment will also be expressed when we're going to deal with these issues. Finally, I have referred to the concrete actions undertaken by the Government to strengthen the skills of teachers. I have shown the need to strengthen it further and to some of the matters the Government wants to promote. This should clearly show that the government parties take this seriously and are not the action lamb, as the opposition tries to angle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e618	The school bat goes high. That's good. We cannot live with a school that does not deliver results in line with the role we all believe Norway should have in the knowledge world of the future. It's an open world where you hardly get protection other than the insight, adaptability and understanding that your knowledge and competence provide. The teacher and the dissemination of knowledge is not just important; it is absolutely central to our success in creating the school we want. There's no doubt about it. But in spring, i.e. Nor should we forget that it is a whole chain of decision-makers, from Stortinget to the teacher, who must join and work systematically if we are to succeed. In the right, we fully agree with the proposers in their objectives. We have joined and are with the proposers in terms of one of the proposals, requirements for competence. It surprises us that government parties in their comments are also problem-oriented in this area. To the right, it is more important to give a clear signal to all school owners in Norway that competence requirements should be attached to teaching in the individual subjects of Norwegian school. We think this would start a process in which school owners would quickly begin to systematize their knowledge of the skills they have at school. We also believe that they would develop an interest in and be concerned with further developing this competence, systematically. We note with some wonder that government parties are more concerned with describing the cost and challenges of introducing such a requirement for competence than with looking at the signal effect it will have on the school as a system and the teacher's status as a intermediary of competence. There is no one, and neither are we, as with the proposers for proposal No. 1, which will introduce this in a way that is irresponsible in relation to what the school can manage to adapt to in the short term. But as I said, it's the direction and the signal that's important. The right is fighting for the teacher's continuing training. The reason why we have not joined the proposal as co-sponsors is not that we disagree with the intention of the proposal, but we believe that one here must be very conscious of playing through and stimulating the municipalities to become active school owners. Systematisation of the continuing training of teachers must be based on local assessments and needs. The municipalities as school owners are the ones that have to do the job. Continuing education is a key challenge for Norwegian school, but it is also undeniable that this is an employer’s responsibility at the outset. The system also does not come if one does not have an active local school ownership that takes this responsibility and understands the need for it. In the right, we have also noted that there is too little research on which strategies are the most effective to ensure professional updating and further training of teachers. Research shows that the learning outcomes and the results of continuing training are not necessarily related to the length of the offer. Such a comprehensive scheme as is proposed here will have a very significant impact on the staff situation at school, and there must be a high degree of certainty that the measures will have the desired effect. In the right we've been busy trying to keep teachers longer. The school competence recruitment challenge is high. Several young people need to be interested in choosing the teaching profession, but it also needs to be focused on getting teachers to work longer. Here the right has already presented some suggestions. Yesterday, the government accepted an AFP scheme that is very actively used by teachers to disappear from school early. This will mean that one needs to put in an even stronger impact and focus on systematic further education. It is an important tool to ensure that the teacher does not want to leave school early. It is necessary to look at a range of tools in order for the teacher to be more involved in the job. Competence is needed! The right has proposed the establishment of bonus and working time schemes offered to teachers over 55 years of age. We're looking for arrangements that make and that serve purpose. It's the municipalities that school owners we have to raise awareness of. They're the ones in the middle of the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e638	When one follows the public school debate, sometimes it can get the impression that everything that is bad and difficult in Norwegian school today is the teacher's fault and the teacher's responsibility, while one rarely sees the teachers being credited for what is actually very good in Norwegian school. That I think is a huge paradox. It's too simple to end, and for simple endings, very often there may be faulty endings. Of course, it's the interaction between the resources in the learning situation that determines what kind of learning is going on in school -- it's about the physical environment, it's about curriculums, it's about the student's leaders, and it's about the relationship in the world. But first of all, I think it's the teachers who are the foremost resource in the school, because the teacher is the professional, the teacher is the learner, and the teacher is the one who can facilitate a learning situation based on the resources available. This is why we are concerned that teachers should have a general role, but that they should also be professionals who, in addition to being able to master learning, have special professional skills. That's why we're concerned about increasing the quality of teacher education, and that's why we're concerned that teachers should have continuous continuing training. I think we can learn a lot from the evaluation of general teacher training that NOCUT did last year. When we can read in the report that the integration of practice, vocational education, vocational education and pedagogical theory is a major challenge - or said in a slightly more understandable way for those who are not professionals themselves: theory and practice seem to exist in different ways further in general teacher education - we realize that we have major challenges that we have to tackle, and we are forced to start from the start if we are to be able to do something about this. We're always going to have a debate about the relationship between pedagogics and the profession, between being able to be a professional teacher. This is an important balance, and it's a balance that I think it's important that we take with us and that teachers reflect throughout their careers -- not just when they're sitting on the school bench themselves to learn to be teachers. It's the balance sheet that determines the type of professional we have in Norwegian school, and that's where we've been told quite clearly that we're forced to do something. Then I thought we should borrow a professor of pedagogy at the Hochskulen in Volda, Peder Haug, a little ear. He reflected a little when the NOKUT report came last year. He said that instead of doing the hasty measures, we should spend some time and resources finding the reason why what is not good enough is not good enough. That's what we've chosen to do. SV is concerned with improving the quality of education. We are concerned that teachers should have access to continuing education. But we have chosen to listen to Peder Haug and others who have said, Don't give us a new reform in a hurry. Then I notice that from the opposition's side, not everyone has the choice to do it. There is someone who has chosen to go too far in demanding reforms, and I have to admit that I am uncertain about the effect that one says they will give. We've spent time. We have worked and we will work in the department with a big message about the teacher training, and we will work with a big message about the quality of the initial training. This includes, of course, the provision of continuing education for teachers. The answer will then be given to Stortinget, and then we will have ample opportunity to come back to these questions. Nevertheless, the Government has taken action. It is not exactly what is being claimed by the Progress Party page here today that the Government is not doing anything, and that it is now time for action. But the government has acted. One has adjusted the rules of competence, important adjustments have been made to the training of general teachers, and billions have been spent on raising skills in the knowledge lift. So the government has taken hold, and one has made adjustments that you've seen are necessary. But the major reforms necessarily require greater work than the opposition does here today. Finally, I would just like to say that the responsibility for raising teachers' skills is now very clearly defined: local schoolleaders - school owners, who are called in the bureaucracy language - are responsible. Nevertheless, my SV that it is quite natural that the state is involved and bidreg. How we choose to dispose of these resources, we get closer to getting back to larger and forbidden things from the Government's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e659	One of the main goals of the Christian People's Party for the school is to put each individual student in the center and ensure all students challenges based on each individual's characteristics and potential. If we are to succeed in this, skilled and committed teachers are absolutely crucial. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal to impose a vow on primary and secondary school teachers in the form of systematic continuing education. Although there are nuances between the Christian People's Party and the Left in how we specifically believe this should be carried out, we agree on the most important thing: that it is essential to put in place systematic continuing education for teachers in Norwegian school, and that, in addition to ensuring that there are enough teachers, this should have the highest priority in the time to come. In addition, we are fully aware that sufficient and competent teachers are far more important to prioritise than an extended school day, on which the Government has chosen to invest resources. The Christian People's Party proposed the last time we dealt with a matter of teachers and teachers' vows, a trial project with three-six months of renewal and empowerment for teachers, where changes in school, new pedagogics and more expertise were to be the focus. In the long term, we believe that a model should be developed in which teachers are trained every 10 years for such a period of three to six months. A study lab report has previously shown that the school has challenges related to uniform educational arrangements and inability to adapt education to the students. At the same time, we know that there is a constant desire to adapt training to each individual student. It is essential to be able to provide teachers with time to improve their skills, with expectations of individual organisation and of new up-to-date knowledge of teaching. A renewal period for teachers, as outlined, could provide inspiration, new and up-to-date knowledge, new teaching methods and thus provide students with better training. Students in the Norwegian school are required to be engaged, up-to-date and knowledge-rich teachers. That's why we need to get teachers the best starting point for achieving a school that's adapted to the individual student. With regard to the proposal that competence requirements should be linked to education in individual subjects and not just to employment, we also support this. I think it is crucial and therefore should also be a matter of course that the teacher has good knowledge of the subject in which he or she is going to teach. We believe that this should also be taken into account in the recruitment process. However, it is important to stress the need that many schools, especially the small ones, still have and will have for general teachers who can teach in several disciplines. Therefore, we do not regard the proposal as a abolition of the general teacher, or as an exclusion of teachers who already exist in school, but as a clarification that good knowledge of the subject in which it is to be taught should also count. Finally, I want to say that for the Christian People's Party, the teachers have been the key in all those matters and in all the time we've been sitting both in position and in opposition to get good results in school. Giving this profession an opportunity to perform the important role it has, one will be able to see as a long red thread in the history of the Christian People's Party, from Kjell Bondevik, from Jon Lilletun, and now we also want to continue to be and contribute, so that the teachers can get the tool they need to be involved in giving us the world's best school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e676	As mentioned by several speakers, the issues of different measures to improve teaching skills have been addressed and addressed on several occasions at Stortinget since then, both last year and this year. It is established that the teacher is the most important factor in the student’s learning outcomes. It is important both for us as politicians and for the purpose of recruiting the profession to give this important profession a higher status. The background to this case is that it is necessary to assess further requirements for the competence of some subjects at some stage, as has been done by making demands for new additions from August 2008 on 60 study credits in Norwegian, math and English in order to be able to be added to these subjects at the youth level. Various measures have also been taken and there is reason to be satisfied that schools and apprenticeships have been awarded more than DKK 1 billion in the context of the competence development strategy for the period 2005-2008. The government's commitment has again triggered similar efforts on the part of municipalities and county councils, making this a lot of money. It should also be noted that of these means, 10 pst. ear-marked continuing training in natural sciences and 2nd foreign languages. It can also be mentioned that in 2007 1 400 teachers participated in continuing training courses covering more than 10 study credits in the subjects of natural sciences and 2nd foreign languages. In addition, nearly 400 teachers have participated in similar offers in mathematics, and over 1,000 teachers in various other subjects. What I want to say is that the government is strengthening the efforts of more teams, including of newly educated teachers. The guidance program was 15.5 million. kr in 2007 and it now covers all the counties and all the 29 teacher training institutions. The programme receives good feedback and shows that systematic guidance dampens the ‘practice shock’ and leads to a more positive perception of their own basic education. In fact, it is good that the field of practice is emphasised, because it is one of the NOCUT's biggest appeals in terms of teacher training. With regard to the introduction of competence requirements for vocational training, this proposal may have very wide-ranging implications and it will be difficult to implement in the short term. Specific competence requirements for teaching in all subjects are a major change in relation to the current situation. There's a lot to think about school structure, but we can't ignore the fact that in today's school structure there are over 1,000 primary schools with fewer than 100 students. It will therefore not be possible to formulate a rule which would make it illegal to use appointed teachers in educational situations other than those in which they are competent. It is natural to add that many researchers stress the importance of the classroom teaching function, especially in the childhood. So that means you're going to have many hours with one teacher, and I think that can be a lot right in our modern era. The general teacher training shall qualify for inclusion in the full primary school and, as is known, the Government will present changes that strengthen it in a separate master’s report. It is also important to stress that the municipality is responsible for recruiting the right skills for its own schools. And I would like to stress that the role of the school owner is important. They must be conscious of their responsibilities. Personally, I believe that today’s system where one teacher can teach in every subject is not that good. That's why it's necessary that we get these changes that are now being added up, that is, that we need to get a strengthening of different disciplines. The government has announced a high-quality report in initial training in 2008, as well as a high-level report on teacher training in 2009. It is absolutely necessary and met with excitement. A changing society also requires a change in teacher training. It is assumed that the Government of these documents will provide an assessment of school competence needs and how they can be met. I just want to finish with a teacher's point of view: fitness for the profession must never be forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e697	In the left we look at building a good school and building the status of teachers as a tough and systematic work. In the lines that lie in the Left's view of this, we promoted a variant of systematic continuing training for teachers two years ago. Then we stood alone, but we had the support of those who worked in the education systems, in the Education Association, the Student Organisation and others. Today we have the support of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in the lift of competence and the teacher's vow. The right has made it clear that they share their intentions, but they want to think about how to do it. At the same time, it is a fact that in the country's largest municipality, Oslo, it has been decided, after negotiation between the Left and Christian People's Party on the one hand, and the Right and Advance Party on the other, to introduce a teacher's vow for all teachers in Oslo School based on systematic, competent continuing education. Since the state is not involved, you start on your own municipal level with 20 million. kr, adopted from the school years 2008 and 2009. I am also aware that similar debates are taking place elsewhere in the country. Those who believe that the Left is going to stop promoting this matter, just have to worry that we don't. We're going to be as tough and systematic as any one is, if you first think that something is important. The teacher's vow, which the Left is talking about, is recognised as so important that it is one of the most important features of the bourgeois government in Sweden in this school year. It's called the Teacher's Lift, and it's about the Swedish primary and secondary schools. It is implemented after a reading similar to the one presented by the Left, which we have received support for, and which is contained in the proposal today, namely that there is a gap between the national and the local level, i.e. the local school owners - if you can say so - and the national level. It will be the same as the follow-up action of the Knowledgelift is such a spice layer, because there is also a spice layer between the efforts of the Knowledgelift, which Left supports, of course, and what happens locally. The teacher's vow, which has been proposed here, is perceived - and we have thought - in addition to continuing training. Continuing education is more than continuing training. It is a longer systematic training of competence that aims to empower people to be in their profession, whether theoretical, educational or otherwise important to the subject. Then there has been a wonderful debate about changing the regulations of the Training Act and setting ambitions on behalf of the school. Someone thinks we've been drinking Møller's cran. Then it must be the same tran that they might have drank around the last century when Grünerløkka school had 2,500 students. The students went on a shift, and they switched their textbooks. The Left People of the Time and later Social Democrats said that knowledge is power. Then ambitions were set up on behalf of the school. It was then understood – and I guess everyone understands today – that you cannot go to IKEA and buy it. There was no IKEA at the time. But there's no one here today who thinks we can do it. Changing the regulation is setting up an ambition for the school. This could mean that each individual will have an individualised plan that allows you to develop and be better fit for your job. This may in practice mean, for example: an excellent measure, which I know we have in Uppland, at the University of Lillehammer, with a decentralised professional education, among others. in Valdres, for nurses and teachers, so that you don't get the 20-year-olds, but the 30-year-olds. You're filling up. We can't stop having ambitions. So the sitting government has ambitions for fruit and green. It has ambitions about everything, but not for the teachers. The good thing in this area - from a left-wing point of view - is that the Prime Minister and also the Council of State, Solhjell, have almost taken advantage of Left's honorary word in buckets and buckets: pride of the teacher, joy of the teacher, love of the teacher, teacher's vow. At the same time, the Contemporary Council of State 1/2008 has even said, ‘We need a teacher’s lift in Norway’. Yes, the chance exists today - for the Council of State, in the sense that here you have the chance. But once again you follow the slogan: think about it, evaluate it, but do it -- but don't, no. That's what's happening today. We see that as very regrettable. It's very regrettable that you can't set up ambitions to raise school, that you don't realize that whether it's a small school or a major school, it'll be perceived as a handshake for you to lift. Of course, the promise will have to take time, because it needs to be adapted to the individual, it needs to be adapted to the school, it needs to be adapted to the municipalities. But a change in the training regulations is to take a vow that applies to the whole country, to take the whole country into use. On behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I address the proposal referred to in the vote as No. 1, which is based on amending the training regulations of the Training Act. I then take up the proposals promoted by the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which are the proposals No. 2 and 3 on the teacher's undertaking and on an obligatory and individual training plan. So it's like this: it's going forward. There are several people who join. I'm almost tempted to say, the winner follows almost our tabs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e712	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e716	There is no doubt that the Storting is busy with the quality of the school and has spent a lot of time and effort debating it. I appreciate that, and I see that a lot of commitment is needed in this area. Not unexpectedly, and I want to say fortunately, very much of the attention is directed to the teacher. There is a broad consensus on the importance of recruiting, developing and retaining good teachers. The debate is characterised by differing views on how best to achieve it. We're going to have expectations for the teachers. We have to make demands on them. It shall be realistic, achievable requirements and expectations. They need good support and good provision of development, and we will give them that. We do this best by facilitating long-term and systematic work, and by listening to teachers, schoolteachers and other actors in the school. In this way, I want to develop a system that promotes trust and stability. The slightly more than 3,000 base bullets we have in this country are manned with about 60,000 teachers. These teachers still have their backgrounds and slightly different competences, and they belong in a schoolship. Incentives to the development of this community shall be taught and taught in such a way that their competence is adequate both in the subject and in the courses for learning in the general part of the curriculum and in the principle of training. This requires that students have a lot of time with a teacher who knows them well and who is a good class teacher and who can help to establish a community. In my youth, I have now set a minimum of 60 credits to be added to the subjects of Norwegian, mathematics and English. This received considerable support from the hearing ring, and I am determined that the requirements of the competence regulation should be continuously assessed. But the base ball has 13 courses, 10 of them are available at all stages. That means that over a week, our 50,000 students have at least ten different subjects left. Many of these student groups are found in schools that have fewer than ten teachers. That being said, I do not think that small schools should explain that competence cannot be built up. All schools should have competence, but perhaps it makes sense to think that some teachers should have a little more competence than others in some disciplines. This means that you can imagine that you are linking your skills to the school community instead of to the individual teacher in the individual educational situation, for example. by gaining special competence in reading training at school. In parallel with further assessments of competence requirements, which we will be doing, we are developing teacher training with a view to providing a key message at the turn of the year. We're going to continue a teacher's education for the basic school where we're looking at more differentiation towards step and step. We want to emphasise that teacher training should provide a high level of professional competence, but more recent research also shows that good professional competence is not enough. Teachers must also be competent leaders of their learning work, and they must have a good knowledge of the profession of teaching and teaching. A lot of the debate here and in the media is about the base ball. The proposal on the learning lift also includes continuing training, and the same is true of the development of skills within its last year in 2008. Good quality in continuing training is central to improving the performance of all pupils, and teachers are equally central to this part of initial training. Nevertheless, there is reason to recall that competence requirements are defined in a different way in continuing training than in the primary school, and that competence in teaching is a prerequisite for the addition of both the preparatory and the professional study programmes. We've had a great skill lift in this ageing period, and spent well over NOK 1 billion on it. We have strengthened the skills requirements to be provided in some key subjects of youth. Teachers will learn their whole life for the best of their lives and for the best of their lives. Both the State and the school owners should join forces to put systems in place. In the Quality of Initial Training message, we will come back to it again. In the message to the Stortningen on the role of teacher and teacher training, competence and the role of teacher will be a central theme. In the budget and other documents in the future, we will continue to develop these lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e735	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e738	There's a lot we could ask the Council of State about. In my post I was in the government's priority area of continuing education, i.e. competence in individualisation and, of course, also in pedagogics. Although it turns out that it's in the very basic subjects the teacher needs to fill, it's incredibly important to give it to them. One thing is the actual training of teachers and that you set requirements for newly employed teachers, but giving the teachers who are in school today who are not in these groups, the possibility of continuing training in these subjects, must be at the bottom -- we have to start there. Does the Council agree that we need to focus on the basic subjects now and, above all, provide teachers with further training in these subjects? That doesn't mean you have to ignore the other subjects, but you have the main focus on these basic subjects. How will the Council of State ensure that the means of empowerment come to the schools and do not disappear at the municipal level? Although we agree to use funds, they must at least get to where we want to use them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e749	I have gone through the formal competence situation, understood as formal further education, when it relates to primary school pupils in all disciplines. There we can read that in a lot of subjects there are many who have significant further education, but there are also a lot of people who don't have it in every subject. I think I can say that when it comes to a wide range of school subjects, we need a considerable increase in competence for years to come, even though we have a lot of skilled teachers in different disciplines. How the device should be in the short term we get back to later, but it is clear that in the long run the lift of competence is an important way to go. Then, in the future of continuing education, whether it takes place under state control or under local control, we must be busy getting up systems that provide good supply, that are used, that are translated into actual competence that will remain in the school afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e756	I think it is undeniable that we have a major competence challenge in school, and we have dealt with several Document Nos here. 8 proposals, inter alia: in the case of recruitment plans. I get reports that there are actually now municipalities that employ unskilled workers in permanent jobs, and there are also suggestions from the Government that pre-school teachers should be able to teach up to the seventh stage. So you're going in the opposite direction of what you should. As I was also involved in my post, yesterday there was an agreement on the AFP in the workplace. Maybe the AFP is primarily used by a lot of teachers to get out early. My point is here we're building up to get a pretty big challenge in ensuring school competence. I ask whether the Minister of Knowledge agrees with that consideration, and whether he will look at the proposals that have been dealt with in the past, with new eyes and in the light of what has now happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e765	Here it was a little bit of a quarter. Let me just briefly mention that it is not right that the Government has proposed an extension for early teachers so that they can teach up to the seventh step. That being said, I fully agree with the representative that for years to come, we will have a monthly challenge when it comes to recruiting for school, as we want in many other parts of our working life. We have to take that very seriously, and I think it would be necessary to take a wide range of measures. We have to work on how we take care of the skills we have, which I see Right has taken interesting initiatives for the past. We have to work on how to get more students to learn, how to get a good implementation, how to get many of the teachers to stay in school, and how to make the school an attractive and exciting job with a status that gives a self-esteem so great that it attracts a capable person. So I agree that there is a monthly challenge in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e772	Policies are about prioritizing, and trade unions also do so, although it is not their role primarily to do so. Before the local elections last fall, Helga Hjetland, on behalf of the Federation of Education, said that if there was not enough money for 5 extra hours in school, for which the party of the Council of State is in favour, and to carry out systematic continuing training for teachers, the systematic training of teachers was first chosen. That's what the Education Association said and says. And why do they do that? They do it because they know that this is a good senior policy. People are longer in school, and we know that you're willing to recruit people. Then my question comes to the Council of State: When are we to expect that the government that is sitting and the Council of State actually understands the same thing as the Federation of Education has realized, that it is the foundation wall in school, fresh construction - which is not a theme here today - and enough and good teachers that are important, that you actually put systematic continuing training first, and not afterwards in line?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e779	I found this line from the representative of Dørum interesting. He goes very high on the track when he says that the government has ambitions for everything beyond the teachers. We're talking about the Left Party, and there's actually no other party that has the seat of government a greater part of the last decade than the Left Party. And what happened in the previous period when the Left was responsible for the questioning policy? Well, it was a monthly extension of the number of hours, which, in my view, was right, but which is now the opposite of Left's policy. On the other hand, this government has implemented a comprehensive national competence lift for teachers of over DKK 1 billion. It has triggered the same effort locally, while this year we are able to find room to expand by 5 hours. The representative can be confident that we will be able to prioritise both competences and other important areas in the school when we come with the budget for 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e784	The previous replicator knows which buttons to press, I understand. The exposure to the Council of State increased. After all, there is a natural division of labour between opposition and position. The opposition shall be impatient and pushe on, while the position shall say that this takes enough time. That job is doing the government council in an excellent way, but sometimes you can't just say it, because this is both a short-term and a long-term problem. It is a challenge that must also have a corresponding strategy, both in the short term and in the long term, and that is what this proposal is all about. So you think of continuing training as part of a system of continuing training and continuing training as part of a system of continuing training, and you shouldn't confuse it too much. It is strange that the Council of State cannot support proposal No. 3, which seeks to give individual training rights to the teachers who are in school today, so that students who attend today can benefit from the cross-political consensus on investing in teacher competence. I would like to challenge the Council of State if he would not encourage his government partners in Stortinget to support that proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e795	There is also another division of work that sometimes becomes very clear between the Government and the opposition. It's that the government actually makes clear improvements when it comes to the situation of the teachers, while the opposition is talking about the same thing. In 2008, we have a high level of competence for teachers and for Norway, for example. have met many schoolteachers, many in real science and many in foreign languages, and over the years have been well over DKK 1 billion. In the same year, we have found room to expand the number of hours in school, and now in 2008 we have also introduced formal skills requirements for the addition to youth in three key disciplines. The reality is that we are actually doing the improvements today. Then I can guarantee that there will be even more in the later budget in this area. We're going to do it by systematically laying the groundwork for good work and presenting it to the Storting in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e802	The left is proud of the Bondevik II effort for a promise of knowledge, and it was only to be lacking that the sitting government had not followed up the promise of knowledge. There was an agreement with Stortinget, so the opposite would have been a breach of agreement in line with the fact that my party had not followed up the bet on kindergartens. So I'm assuming that the Council of State didn't suggest that that's what you were supposed to do. It is good to boast that you follow an agreement, but in Norway it is common for you to be charged if you do not follow agreements. Following them is the normal thing. My questions to the Council of State are: they have now been given the promise of knowledge and have started the training. When should the SV come to the same recognition as the Federation of Education was given before the elections last autumn, that in the choice between even more hours at school and systematic continuing training for teachers, further training should be given to teachers? When are we going to get to the same heavy recognition that governments in neighbouring countries have come to? When do you want to put the teachers first by spending the money on them? We know it's manageable sizes, but you have to choose. It seems that the Council of State is currently choosing to legislate fruit and green rather than today to set ambitions on behalf of teachers in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e810	The reality is that in 2008, we're doing both. We gave 375 million dollars to a lift of competence for our teachers. That's the same amount that we've been raising over the years, and that's a significant sum, that the representative Dørum is well aware of, and that's triggered about the same thing locally. Then we've also found room to expand the hours in the school. It was left before, but they're now against. We've done both what was the first priority for the Federation of Education, and what was not as high as priority, but which is still important. Both parts were presented in the budget for 2008. The 2009 budget will present how we will use the public money in 2009. That's how it was under the previous government, and that's how it is under this government. I can say that we will continue to work with systematic training, and that we have an ambition to still have a school day that goes towards an all-day school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e817	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e822	As a comment on the last exchange of lines, it was the previous government that really speeded up the expansion of the number of hours. There it's just to welcome after. That's not why I took the word. In particular, it was the representative Elvik who made a dream of a lice fit when you are in such a debate like this. First of all, she said the NOKUT report came last year. It came in 2006. So you've spent a lot of time thinking about it. This has been justified in listening to Professor Peder Haug. I have an interview with Professor Peder Haug in the Class Fight on December 6, 2007, which says, "What went wrong in school? The pedagogy of the left has made the Norwegian school anti-knowledge." I hope you listen well, for there are a lot of force ointments here: ‘The educational option that emerged was a particular reformed pedagogical direction. It was politically and pedagogically correct. It was largely his pedagogy on the left, and he was driven into partnership between radical teachers, researchers and politicians." With reference to the previous case, it is not strange that we are concerned with some openness about what kind of results this school actually produces. In addition, it says: ‘There has therefore gradually become an anarchy in the training.’ And it says: ‘Norwegian elephants are between those throughout the OECD area that are followed up and controlled at least by their teachers.’ And... "The consequences of these moves, which exist many places in the school, have been that he has gone in a knowledge-friendly and knowledge-friendly direction." These are pretty powerful words, and when Åsa Elvik says you should listen to Professor Peder Haug, I sincerely hope that the Government listens very well and takes the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e854	When I take the floor, it's because I want to point out the relationship between school, business and our welfare community. Norway is a high-cost country with high wages and expensive goods. It is, of course, linked to the high well-being we have in our country. It also gives us some challenges in terms of fast-moving requirements, and that we must constantly be at the forefront of competence. It's a strategy on which there's cross-political consensus. The more difficult it is to understand that we have not taken these realities into account, considering how we should lay the foundation for a continued well-being based on competence. Knowledge does not come of itself, but as a result of consciously investing in perhaps one of the most important professions we have in society, namely the teaching profession. That effort has been too poor over a relatively long time. Rightly, it has come at regular intervals - and too often, in my opinion, as a schoolteacher - ever new curricula. We've had a school in constant transition, but we haven't had a strategy for the important knowledge builder we have, the teacher. For this reason, Document No. The 8-proposal for consideration in Stortingen today, which unfortunately does not seem to receive enough encouragement to be implemented. The main contributor of the knowledge society, the teacher, must be placed in focus, and requirements for professional competence must be made. This takes time. That's why it's important to get started. All those who have worked in the school system know that professional security and overview are fundamental to being a good educator. The teaching profession must be given increased status through pay and professional replenishment. Once again, there has to be a status to have a profession where you are proud to impart knowledge, a knowledge that will be the cornerstone of the Norwegian welfare society for future generations. The business community is asking for people with skills. The school shall be a reflection of society. In this way, the need for knowledge in industry must also be reflected in school. The school is building and material, but the main content is the teacher. There has been a lot of focus on buildings, indoor climates, small and large schools, but now it is the teacher as a knowledge intermediary who needs to be given a lift and given opportunities for systematic empowerment. Today, the Storting has the chance to get from the rhetorical section of the track to the end of the action. It's as well-known where the goal is scored. The fit has been passed through today's Document No. Eight proposals. That's when you take advantage of it in terms of targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e871	The Council of State became a little involved in the challenge of the Left, and that is good, because there are some tough challenges for policy to be pursued in the future. It is in spiritual and practical competition that results, so I will further intensify competition. It is quite right that the Left in the Bondevik II government along with other parties joined in for the Knowledge Promise - Kristin Clamet was the Council of State. It's also true that we went in for more hours at school. It's also true that we refused to shorten school time. So we accept a number of measures in that period. But now we're talking about the time after 2005. Then, of course, the Council of State will have its share of the rose to keep his word after an agreement to bet on continuing education in the school, approximately 375 million. kr per. years. My theme was simple: when we're here now, what do we prioritize - when you don't have money for everything? So what do you put first? Do you first put the money that would give us a systematic continuing vocational training with one semester every 8 years - about 2.5 billion kroner - similar to what it costs to put 5 extra hours into school? It was from the problem helga Hjetland said to the trade union leader: if we don't have money for everything, further education must come first. And the council doesn't have the money for everything. At least he hasn't had it until now. So far, the response of the Council of State and the SV has been as follows: we fill in hours and talk nice about the teachers. Shine beautifully to the teachers and then swing out into the operational fog home. To further reinforce this, when people in municipalities who lack money will give priority, for example: between teachers and fruits and greens, the Council of State has ensured that they are forced to choose fruit and greens even if they do not, even if they will choose more teachers according to municipal conditions. That's the sum of these actions that are starting to get intrusively annoying. In the middle of this time, the Council of State, together with the Prime Minister, has strong ideas about strengthening the teacher, we're going to build the teacher, we're going to have a teacher's vow - a heavy article by the Council of State in the Common Era. Then we get into the practical actions, and then, first of all, one goes systematically against placing professional ambitions on all teachers, even though the Council of State was well aware of arguments that could have spoken for it in a previous row exchange here. And then you systematically go against systematic continuing training - a view that most people understand, which a series of municipal politicians in Norway now argue for, but for which it is impossible to hear in a government. For my part and for the Left, we believe that this is not because the Council of State does not understand this, but because he does not have enough money to do so. We believe that he does not have the will to give priority to the most important thing first. When you don't want to prioritize the most important thing first, you're going to have the following parole: raise your voice, become agitators, talk great about everything but that, and talk away from the fact that you don't prioritize systematic continuing training. But the left will do the most important thing first: more teachers -- tuned down now in the Storting [[President clubs]] Then the club fell to underline the last word.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e886	Maybe not for that reason--.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e889	I will confirm that I am very happy with the competition, but I do not like the actual errors. So, in 2006, we prioritised a lift of competences for the teachers, in 2007, the Red-Green government prioritised a lift of competences for the teachers, and in 2008 we did the same thing - 375 million. kr. The representative that Dørum has requested, we have prioritised three years in a row. And what we prioritise in 2009 is to be found in the budget presented for 2009. But in 2008, we did one thing in addition: we were giving priority to extending the school day by 5 hours on the first to fourth grade. So the representative Dørum doesn't want to talk so much about the time before 2005, but we still have to hold onto it a little bit, since the Left put in government and steered the four years. Then I thought it was a slight confusion outside and going here, because then the Left School Day extended with several hours, which was reasonable. Now they're against it. The teacher's density in Norway went down under the previous government. No mean left that it's important to get more teachers into school. At that time no money was allowed. Even if an initiative was taken and a skill lift was adopted, the small amount of money was raised during this period. That's where the big sums have been raised. The last thing is that the representative Kongshaug says from the Stockholm Chair that there were too many new curriculums in the school, while the Left was responsible for the decision to introduce a new curriculum in the previous period. To put it simply, I think the left has to decide whether to be left or right. The left has been very much right in the last few years. Now they're trying to be left. Then I think they have to go more to us who really have the competence to be left, and that's it daily, instead of being on the right. It will quickly be so that if the Left and Right are left in a government, it will go as it did in the previous period: it will be Right and almost nothing Left, nor in school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e898	Our debates tend to come to an end, so does this. Like the Council of State, I also do not like very actual errors. When the Council of State stands on the pulpit and says that this government prioritised empowerment for teachers in 2006, 2007 and 2008, I just want to say that it should almost just be lacking. An agreement in force from 2005 was concluded between the Department of Education and Research at the time, KS, the Association of Education, the National Association of Schools, the Norwegian School Managers' Association - about everything that could creep into municipal school administration - and not least the teachers. They entered into an agreement to establish a historically high level of teacher competence and that was a prerequisite for being able to implement the Knowledge Lift. So this work was started, and then a budget was inherited in 2006 which, of course, was not reduced in terms of continuing training of teachers. Something else would be missing, because the agreement had been broken between all the parties that have something to say about teachers and further training of teachers. Therefore, it is not a great pleasure of the sitting government that they have managed to continue an agreement that others have entered into. Rather, on the contrary, it was just to be lacking that it was not carried on. What's the question now is what to do in the future. Not long ago in the United Kingdom, we discussed here a proposal to continue this commitment of competence for three more years, after the period expires in 2008, in order to ensure that teachers were given more long-term and systematic skills. What were the parties that voted it down? Yeah, it was just the government parties. Once we have both put in place and put in place an agreement on empowerment for teachers in the previous government - as the current government continues - we are, of course, trying to get that level of competence to last even longer, so that even more teachers are even better equipped to teach our children. So what do the government parties do? Well, on the first and best occasion when they have the opportunity to translate words into action, they choose to vote against it. That's why I think it's going to be a bit hollow when the government council and others from the government parties are standing on the pulpit here today and claim that they are the great benefactors in the further and further training of teachers. They do what they are obliged to do under an agreement that has been concluded, but they do not do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e909	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e912	The Council of State and I share an ethics, namely that the facts should be correct, and the facts were just commented on in a very thorough way by the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide. What the Council of State should be happy for is that he doesn't run the Stoltenberg II government from the SV program, because then there would be significant problems in talking as strongly as the Council of State does about investing in knowledge and betting on the teacher. Sometimes I can be charmed by the generous rhetoric of Sponheim. One day, after he had dropped off a bit of a watch on TV, he wondered if it was me in a younger and neater edition that was there. The point is that it was State Council Solhjell he had heard talk strongly and intensely about teachers and teacher competence. It made an impression on Sponheim, so much the impression that he later told the Norwegian people. But what's crucial is not to talk nice about teachers and learning skills. It is essential to act properly and to give priority to it. What I want to note at the end of this debate is that the Council of State has so far not been able to prioritise money for systematic continuing training for Norwegian teachers. Then we'll see -- we'll follow closely what's going on in the upcoming exams until the 2009 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e925	I think we did quite well, I, all the way to the uphill side. There's been a good debate in many ways, but when the discussion about which of the guys is the best in the class comes, then also the engagement comes, and it's really a little worrying, for the commitment in this case should lie in the matter actually about, not in who has done or has not done what. The reality is that there are three concrete proposals which, in total, will help improve the training situation for teachers, and it is worrying that the government parties are not involved. It doesn't help much with projections. Ambitiousness without action also helps little. That is why I tried to get the Council of State to be clear on at least one of the proposals, namely proposal No. 3 - which does not even cost money, and which can be implemented within the framework of which the Council of State has now boasted that he has followed up in 2006, 2007 and 2008 - where we want an individual training plan for teachers, in the same way that we want individual training for students. Individual training is one of the key concepts of school policy, cross-political. All are involved in individually organised training for students. Why shouldn't we be equally concerned about it for the teachers? Why aren't we going to base the same system on the teachers? I will again challenge the Council of State on this: will the Council of State recommend its Government parties in Stortinget to support proposal No. 3, so that we can at least get an individual training plan for the teachers, so that we get a targeted effort at least in that area, without costing more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e937	I am upset to hear the description of the Norwegian school that we are getting presented today. I am also upset to hear the description of the Norwegian teacher and the lack of knowledge and competence. It's absolutely incredible. We have a Norwegian school today - a Norwegian common school - which is a good school and provides good education for the Norwegian student. We also have areas where we have challenges and where we have shown that we have taken seriously in the last few years we have run. I just want to remind the opposition of one thing, that in the last period, with Right-Registration, there were powerful cuts in all municipalities. I myself have been involved in downgrading the school with 20 years' work. During this period, we have considerably strengthened the municipal economy, which has made the number of teacher's years in school actually growing. I guess that's probably the most important factor in ensuring quality in school. We have also followed up the promise of knowledge with money and systematically invested in the subjects linked to the reform. We have also said that we want to continue to bet systematically at school. That's why it makes sense to sit here today and listen to statements that make it seem like the Norwegian school is about to collapse. Actually, it's not. It's a good school, it's a good common school, which over the decades has made sure that all children in Norway, regardless of the size of their parents' wallet, have received a good school and have been able to participate in society. That is why I think it is hopeless to listen to the debate today and the attack that comes on the knowledge and competence that actually exists in the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e946	I didn't intend to get upset, but now I actually did, to present this matter as if it were an attack on the knowledge of the teachers, being totally reversed. The goal here is to help give teachers what they want the most for themselves. The Education Association has made it clear that it is important to give priority to continuing education and training. It's the most important thing. Then a debate about continuing training and action to do this in a better way is presented, as an attack on the level of knowledge of the teachers and an attack on the school! That's not what this is all about. It's about a genuine interest in making the school better. If we're going to make school better, we're going to have to think again. And if we're going to think about something new, we're going to have to do it right here. That's why I'm upset when these three proposals, which will be a great benefit to the teachers, are presented as an attack on the teachers they're supposed to strengthen. That's not the reality. Government parties have not gone past the fact that we in Norwegian school have quite major challenges in terms of learning outcomes. National and international studies show that we need to make better use of the knowledge available to teachers and to acquire even more knowledge. I also thought that the government parties were concerned about that. That is why I am concerned when a debate on quality raising, a debate on improving the situation for teachers, is presented in the way that the representative Kristoffersen did. There's no reason. The aim of these proposals is a better everyday life for teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e955	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e958	On the same line as Anundsen, I was quite upset to hear Kristoffersen's articles. There is no one who has talked about that the school is on its way to breaking up. I am also quite concerned when I hear that the Workers' Party is more concerned about explaining that you actually have some challenges in school than about addressing them. That someone makes it like the school is about to break up, I take a very strong distance from it. In addition, Kristoffersen came into the community economy. I didn't think that was part of the debate today either. There are so many cases of rejection: of course, the local government sector could not be shielded from a general decline in the Norwegian economy when the previous government went on, but in the last two years until the government developed the local economy significantly better than it has done in the last two years with the red-green government we have now. It's in the government's own figures in the national budget. It must soon be the end of creating the expectations that lie in talking about how the local economy has become much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e965	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e980	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e989	Protection of Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell has been a very controversial matter. It has also been the subject of discussion in this Chamber earlier in that period. I have great respect for the fact that some still want to get the debate on the actual shelter back in the staging room. However, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, would point out in this context that it is the King of the State Council that has been conferred decision-making authority under the law in force. It is the provisions of the Nature Protection Act that regulate the conditions relating to the allocation of an area to national park, landscape or nature reserve respectively. The responsibility for the adoption of the final boundaries of protection areas and associated protective regulations has therefore been clearly assigned to the King of the Council of State. There is no reason for the majority to derogate from the current procedure and from the definition of responsibilities in relation to the protection of Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell. There is no doubt that the main objective of the rapporteurs is to have a debate on the scope of protection in the UK. When, through the proposal, the proposers first ask the Government to base the voluntary protection so as to present a case on this to the Stortinget before final decision is taken, yes, then the process proposed by the proposers is, at my discretion, a strange one. I would think it was a little strange that the Storting in this matter was to be a debater for a topic that should not be concluded by Stortinget. Good debates in the main hall are good, but I have to stress that as long as the process and the decision-making authority in these kinds of cases are as clear as they actually are, and in my view, the staging hall becomes more a venue for highlighting positions than for a good feature in a decision-making process where the protection and use of the areas is the main focus. So to the protection issue itself. There is no doubt that this protection is important and that it is complicated. The opinions are many both between the parties and in the parties, so I think all the protection processes have been and are and will be. There is also a broad consensus in this room that Trillemarka has unique values, values that need to be preserved from a national perspective. Against this background, the main challenge also emerged quite clearly. The main challenge was that around Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell there was a significant will locally, through a strong commitment, to achieve as a result a voluntary protection. I think that's good reason to commend this local commitment. The fact that the conclusion was not fully based on voluntary protection does not in any way mean that local democracy was parked or put on the sideline. The local involvement that has been and is around Trillemarka-Rolla Mountains is now being looked up to the work done to complete the entire protection process, both in terms of compensation from the big community and, not least, the regulatory work now being done for use and care of the area. The feedback that comes to me is of a positive nature. The local commitment, the good local knowledge, the local will and the great desire to be able to make a reasonable use of the area in interaction with the values in Trillemarka - all of this is valuable in sum, and this is now fully and completely a valuable contribution to the final conclusions to be reached. I know, in fact, that the Council of State also appreciates this very much. Then we might wish for future processes to be managed together on an even better and even more inclusive basis than what this process has become, without shifting the decision-making authority from central government to local government. Getting good processes is something you have to try to do at all times. I believe that from start to finish, there must be a fundamental interaction between national interests and considerations and local knowledge, local needs and local involvement. It will provide the best processes, and there I feel that Trillemarka-Rollagberg is now. My observations now suggest that Trillemarka is actually subject to good processes towards the latest conclusions to be drawn. Finally, I just want to remind you that although processes can almost always be better, there is no need to change responsibilities or systematics in the current processes. The rise in participation was taken into account in the new Law on Planning and Building. Therefore, the majority of the Committee has not been set to meet the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1008	In St.meld. No 26 for 2006-2007, the Government's environmental policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, emphasis is placed on voluntary protection as the way of working. The government itself has said that the result of this work is promising. The size has also repeatedly pointed out that the main line of Norwegian protection policy must be voluntary protection. But when we get to Trillemarka, the government is happy to ignore what it has said, and also what the Storting has said. In the previous round with the protection of Trillemarka, 60 landowners were affected, which led to both frustration and anger. The landowners felt partially run over and poorly treated. Despite this, the landowners and the municipalities concerned have voluntarily joined forces in this round on a proposal for the protection of 30,000 target forests and 70000 target other land. This is the greatest voluntary protection of the time, and the landowners and municipalities should have been given credit for the work they have done. But a voluntary protection on this scale is obviously not good enough for the Government. Now it says no to this local initiative and rather implements coercive protection – the largest and sovereign most expensive form of coercive protection, at 147 000 targets, of this 73 000 target forest. This can be no more than a serious defeat of the principle of maximum voluntary protection. Such a procedure is also not particularly positive in relation to voluntary protection in other parts of the country. Why should other landowners and municipalities make proposals for protection when they see that the government is in fact never satisfied, and that the local initiative is being overrun, almost whatever is proposed? I am aware that the reason that has been used not to present this kind of case to the Storting is that one believes that the procedure that has been laid down would then be waived, that it is the King, that is, the Government, that is, to which the decision-making authority has been given. But I think, unfortunately, that some people make this matter more complicated than it is. The proposal of the Party in this case does not detract from the decision-making authority. We simply ask that the matter be referred to Stortinget before a final decision is taken. This is what we do, among other things. because the Storting has said innumerable times that the main line should be voluntary protection, and that is what we want in this case as well. If Stortinget gets the case before a final decision is taken, you can see if these signals have been followed up. The decision should be taken in the way that is legally correct, and our proposal today is not a proposal to amend the law. The proposal of the Progress Party is simply a proposal that the Storting should follow up what has been said before, and also a proposal that gives the Stortinget the opportunity to check whether the Government does what it has actually been told to do. Finally, there is a small error on page 2 of the setting - perhaps a small dream. It says it's 147 m2 to protect. Of course, it's going to be 147 square miles. With this, I would like to address the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1031	The representative, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, has taken up the proposal she referred to, and has also corrected an error in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1034	The government has already decided in this matter. A nature reserve of 147 km2 shall be established in Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell. As the rapporteur has said, it is not appropriate to amend the procedural procedures in safeguard matters. This is a government responsibility, and the Progress Party knows it. A broad majority support the decision of the Government to establish a nature reserve in Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell which is in line with the technical recommendation of the Directorate of Nature Management. I'm glad. Over the last 150 years, we know that 103 species have been eradicated in our country, but that is really a much higher number. At least 864 species are currently directly threatened or vulnerable. This safeguard decision is an important step in preserving Norwegian natural diversity. The decision means that we will clearly have the largest forest protection area in the country. At the same time as the establishment of this nature reserve, the government establishes a common development fund for municipalities of 30 million. kr. In addition, funds are provided for the management and care of the area, including: means are provided for an intercommunal position to enable local authorities to manage the protection area. This is important. In the forest protection area created, a total of 129 so-called Red List species, i.e. species that are vulnerable or threatened with extinction, are registered. The large area of forest being protected ensures that the many red-listed species and their habitats can be protected from interference. I believe that this decision gives Norway greater credibility in the fight for the protection of endangered species in international contexts. SV believes that we have a clear responsibility to preserve nature on earth, even here at home in Norway. However, we are concerned that we get good processes related to protection decisions and that flexibility is displayed in terms of management of the areas. That it can be accompanied by means of conversion is also highly desirable by SV. I think at the same time we can't expect everyone to be satisfied every time. Sometimes it turns out that it's only when a decision is made that it's possible to get to the really constructive processes. But that doesn't mean we don't have to do what we can to ensure an open and inclusive process in advance. We have to listen to the local knowledge, to the recordings coming from the affected areas. I think it is important that we try to prevent what many call a crisis of confidence between local and central environments - at the same time as we have to make sure that we take our international commitments seriously. We have e.g. In the Grand Duchy, we are committed to halting the eradication of biodiversity by 2010. We also have a commitment to future generations, those who cannot say what they mean today. So there's certainly no simple job we have. The biggest threat to biodiversity in Norway today is changes in land use. We had the Co-operation Council on Biodiversity, SABIMA, at a meeting at SV on Tuesday. The daily manager, Rune Anderaa, showed us how seemingly small interventions in his vicinity in Asker had led to the disappearance of two species of birds -- something that came as a surprise to everyone. Often we do not know the consequences until the damage has already occurred, and they are often irreversible. Sometimes we don't even know which species are in an area, and whether they're threatened. This presents us with major challenges, such as: with regard to the identification of species, but also to the precautionary principle. It is also important to facilitate people to live widely and to use areas where they are happy, in a sensible way. In particular, it is important to involve local populations in the identification of species and the conservation of nature and natural diversity. That is why I am very pleased with the initiatives that both the Art Database and the Nature Conservation Association have taken in this area in recent times. If we can engage schoolchildren and schoolchildren as environmental agents, if we can get families more on tour, get them involved in the mapping work, if we can get more students involved in the environment, nature and climate through experiences and practical training, we've achieved a fantastic win. We need to recruit as much as possible for real science and for the struggle to achieve sustainable development. I think it is possible to make biodiversity policy a positive issue for local communities and for Norway. But it requires a lot of all of us, not least the way we put our words, and whether we are able to listen to each other in a respectful way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1056	Norway has committed itself through international agreements to halt biodiversity loss by 2010. This is a very ambitious and demanding commitment that requires a good deal of effective action to be implemented in the short and long term. Trillemarka is one of Norway's largest areas of continuous old natural forests and possesses all the qualities of the original Norwegian forests - a hilly area of wilderness valleys and mountainsides, rivers and small and large lakes, ancient trees and forests as well as a variety of animal and plant species. Trilles include a wide range of species found in the Norwegian Red List of Endangered Species. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has concluded on a proposal for the protection of Trillemarka, which will cover a number of Red List species, and which is consistent with the technical advice given by the Directorate of Nature Management. In principle, the Christian People's Party believes that, as far as possible, the safeguard decision should be based on voluntary protection schemes. For the above reasons, in this case, we still choose to support the decision of the Government. At the same time, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the treatment of protective matters by the government parties, by the fact that the matter of locating the Veterinary College was involved in an internal horse trade between the government parties in order to implement an extended protection decision by Trillemarka. With regard to the content of the proposal from the Progress Party itself, namely that the matter is to be referred to the Stortinget before a final decision is taken, the Christian People's Party does not consider that the current procedure and liability should be waived in this case. Under the provisions of the Nature Protection Act, the King has been given decision-making powers to allocate an area to the national park, landscape or nature reserve respectively. The responsibility for adopting the final boundaries of protection areas and associated protective regulations has been assigned to the King of State Council, which the Christian People's Party believes should also be in this case of the protection of Trillemarka-Rollag Mountain.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1069	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Toril Selsvold Nyborg, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1072	It is known that the protection of Trillemarka and Rollagsberg has been a challenging matter for us in the Center Party. The protection in the area is based on the desire to preserve important areas of life for several of our threatened and vulnerable species, and it has been a broad political plurality to manage the values in this area in a good and efficient way. It's also sweet of the Center Party. We wholeheartedly support the goal of securing biological deficiency, and at the same time it is right to take into account that the Central Party initially had a different approach to the question of the scope of protection, the size of the protection area, than the other parties we are ruling with. A major effort has been made to map the protection values of the area and the need to secure the habitat of many species that have Trillemarka-Rollag mountains as their habitat. At the same time as central government worked with extensive protection in Trillemarka, a large and thorough local work was done to find solutions to a protection that was based more on voluntary activity. This protection area covers a slightly smaller area but nevertheless provided the most important protection values. After a long process, the government has chosen to protect 147 km2 in Trillemarka-Rollagsberg, which corresponds to the setting provided by the Directorate for Nature Management. We in the Center Party strongly believe in local involvement in protection processes, and we are convinced that local legitimacy gives good solutions both to communities and to nature. Increased awareness of protection values, ownership of land management and active participation in management are among the advantages we are convinced that one will fall if the management of nature is more interacting with and not in the fight against those who live and live in areas of high protection value. A stronger emphasis on processes involving the local population in protection and administration is also reflected in the Government Declaration. Then the government also has a clear objective of voluntary protection and, to a greater extent, than governments previously sought protection solutions, for example. through voluntary protection of forests. In the case of Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell, we have chosen from the Center Party to assume that a majority, both in the Government and in the Stortinget, have a different view than us when it comes to the scope of the protection area. At the same time, we have worked actively with the other government parties to ensure that the forthcoming protection regime has good compensation arrangements and strong local involvement in the management of the area. The decisions taken on the protection of the Trillemarka-Rollag mountains provide for greater local involvement and greater economic compensation for local communities than is usual in the past, and the Centre Party is pleased. Here there is also a great responsibility for the Government in the further work to seek good solutions with municipalities and communities in the process of managing protection areas in the future. Publishers want protection plans for the Storting for debate. One might understand a desire to discuss protective plans more, but I think it must be far more important at that time to ensure a greater degree of local impact on the future protection processes in the management of the areas where the community has said that here are the values that are worth taking care of through different forms of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1092	Norway is obliged to stop the loss of biodiversity by 2010. Area protection is the backbone of this conservation work. Urskogen in Norway is almost gone, and a significant part of Trillemarka is old natural forest. Therefore, the issue of the protection of Trillemarka has been an important environmental issue for a long time. Many have called for a decision from the Government, and in the evening post last January, a reader could read that there were so strong disputes in the Government about this that it paralyzed almost everything else to say. Nevertheless, it would take more than one year to get a decision from the Government. This time, the outcome of compromise work in the Government has become a good environmental solution. It is the exception, not the rule, when the Government makes compromises in environmental policy. The decision that has been made is well in line with the Directorate of Natural Management's recommendations, and well in accordance with the minimum left said had to be in place for a proposal to get our agreement. There is no doubt that the Government has been entrusted with the decision-making authority in this type of case. This should also be the case, and the Left does not wish to change this incorporated practice. It has been produced as a favourable solution for the Government to propose compensatory measures in its decision. No Marte Thorkildsen also mentioned a development fund of 30 million. kr. I have recorded that there is a completely different perception of the compensatory measures at local level. One believes this is far too small in relation to what has been set before, and which is needed to do the compensatory measures that a local person would like to bet on. I hope the Government has not locked itself in terms of the size of the compensatory measures, because it is a matter that comes to the Stortinget relating to appropriations, and where there is an opportunity to change the arrangement that one has put on the table. There is left to participate. I have registered that the representative Per Olaf Lundtägen thought at an early stage that the horrific decision to the Government had to be brought in for treatment in Stortinget. It will be exciting to see today whether he has a connection in his own group, or whether it is Erling Sande who has, who now made his point of view, that this matter should not be dealt with in Stortinget now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1107	The decision to protect 147 km2 in Trillemarka is a decision of which the Government is proud, a decision of which the Stortinget can be proud, and an important decision for the protection of Norwegian nature. Next week there will be a book that I think will raise a lot of awareness, which shows how vulnerable and threatened Norwegian nature is, and how we have put ourselves in such a position over a long period that Norwegian nature is reduced on a wide scale. So let it be the starting point: this is an important, correct and positive decision that we can all be proud of, and a decision that is central to protecting many red-listed species, many endangered species. The government will come back with proposals for funding in the very near future. Then there will be ample opportunity for the Storting to take up the discussion that Kvassheim and others have had, so I would suggest that we put it aside for that occasion. With regard to the formalities relating to the treatment of these types of cases, it is of course the size that determines it. The government is dealing with what the Storting decides, and I notice that there is a broad majority in the Storing to stick to the procedures that are established. I see nothing negative at all in that the Progress Party brings this matter before debate in Stortinget. It's an important thing, and there's nothing negative about it being discussed. It can be discussed often. As for the key question many people ask, why the municipal option was not sufficient, I just want to reiterate -- I've done it before -- my tribute to the many activists in the three municipalities of Numedal and Sigdal who put a lot of personal effort on the table to get a good alternative. Nevertheless, when we thought that this, which was a real protection option, was not enough, it is because so many of the values are related to the scope of the protection area that this is a core area of biodiversity. It is the largest coherent forest protection area and with the highest protection values that we know today in Norway, and that is also why the Directorate of Nature Management as a trades union body has made it so difficult to protect this particular area. The national protection values and the global commitments to do our part of the international protection process are being set above the price-worthy, great and beautiful local commitment that many have shown. We have facilitated a number of anti-conflict measures in Nore and Uvdal, Sigdal and Rollag. I have to say that during that visit I had there shortly after the protection decision was known, one was critical, yes, but it was also a fundamental positive willingness to go together to find the best solutions in the future. We're going to set up a $30 million fund. kr to economic development, but of course the Storting will have the opportunity to come back to it. We want to give money to prepare a management plan for the protection areas. We are in dialogue with the municipalities about the management of the protection areas, they are to be managed by the municipalities. It's e.g. also exciting thoughts in Sigdal, which are not directly related to this, but indirectly linked to it, about a wilderness centre in the Kingdom of Kittelsen, which will, of course, be able to connect both essential cultural memories related to Kittelsen and natural memories in Trillemarka. Finally, let me say that the main strategy for the future, which many people have been involved in - the Sande and others - is voluntary protection. This does not mean that we exclude the possibility of coercive protection in specific situations, but the main strategy is and must be voluntary protection. I want us in 2008 and 2009 to protect large forest areas on state grounds and in the pastry forests. We will of course keep coming back to this, but in these public-owned forests there are over 400 km2 of sheltered, productive forests, and we want to provide substantial protection. We also need to protect large forest areas through voluntary forest protection on private grounds in dialogue with landowners, and of course with the amount of compensation that then belongs to. It is now working on nearly 100 areas with approx. 250 km2 of productive forest offered through the work on voluntary forest protection. Let me also say that we should map priority forest types to see where the most protective areas are. Finally, I want to make a heart attack and -- what to say -- a challenge to the Progress Party, simply by saying that I am looking forward to that day the Advance Party in some way presents to the Stortinget a proposal on something that means more environment than what the Government is in favour of, in some area or other. That day I'll go home and spread the champagne with my wife. I'm ready to invite Carl and Eli or anyone else to that champagne party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1136	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1139	I hear that the Council of State is positive both in one way and another, but I thought I would ask him a little more specific question. This biodiversity issue is being addressed, and that is important. But the natural registrations made in Trillemarka show that all the red-listed species that are now thought to be raised by extending the protection are, however, well preserved within a protection area of 100,000 targets. I want the Council of State to be a little more specific as to why it is increasing from 100 000 to 147 000 targets, if it turns out that 100 000 targets are enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1144	Let me first give the questioner the right idea that there is obviously not one phase and one answer in these areas. It is also true that the extent to which the red-listed species to be protected in Norway are - some of them are also found in other countries - varies from one species to another, so there is no answer to these questions. However, when we have chosen to protect such an extensive area in Trillemarka, it is because it is the best preserved area of its kind in Norway, because a greater degree of protection provides safer protection, and because the technical recommendation of the Directorate for Nature Management was that, in such a large area of protection, we provide safer protection for these species, which in Norway are either directly threatened or at least in a very difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1151	Governments are quite right that this is an important issue for the environment, and it was interesting and uplifting to hear that there will be a new case of protection to be decided in order to continue the important work to prevent biodiversity reduction. In this context, it might also be interesting to hear about progress in the field of the Biodiversity Act - when the Council of State sees that one can conclude there. I agree with the Council of State that a wait with substantive treatments related to the compensatory measures will be brought to the attention of the Stortinge. But I understand the Council of State right when, with the wording he chose to use, he opens up that during the deliberation of that part of the case, there may be changes - that one can thus find a more generous compensation scheme, more in accordance with the expectations such as that. has been expressed in Sigdal Municipal Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1158	I'm never in doubt about who's the boss. It is the Stortinge that is the head of the Norwegian system, and it is the Stortinge that gives its directives to the Government, and not the other way around - so it is the Storinge that sets the level of compensation to the seventh and last. But the government will present proposals in line with what we have said earlier. I would also like to remind the representative Kvassheim of an important thing that we have in common, because the Left and SV are among those parties in Norway that have been most resolute and eager to get protection. If protection becomes very expensive, it becomes harder to do it. There's no doubt about it. The solution to this matter will necessarily have consequences for other safeguards. But, yes, we're going to be shy, yes, we're having dialogue with the municipalities, and, yes, it's at the seventh and last Stortinget that decides. As far as the bio-diversity law is concerned, as was also asked, we are now in an intensive consultation process with the other departments involved in the matter - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and many others. Our aim is to present this big message during this year, and it is of course crucial to have it treated during this big time period, so that as late as spring 2009 we can have a fluttering new biodiversity law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1167	Of course, we take the challenge from the councils on a tight arm. The council must have followed poorly if he has not found out that the Progress Party almost weekly proposes to improve the Norwegian road network, so that we do not stand on the roads of Albanian standards, as the red-green government will currently have us to do. Better flow on the roads will have a good environmental impact. So to the matter. In St.meld. No 26 for 2006-2007 and also here in this Chamber today, the Government has said that it wants to focus on voluntary protection as a way of working – focusing on democratic, local processes and interaction with landowners. But when you have this big thing as a test piece, and these great celebrations, you choose to run over landowners and local democracy, which has actually gone very far. I ask the Council of State to explain this great difference between word and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1174	I guess I've actually answered that question already in my post, and I can just repeat it: we put great emphasis on local democracy. I think many of the protection proposals that came from local landowners and others were great. But in the interests of the national, total protection values that also play a role in our international commitments, we chose to protect a larger area in this matter, but how voluntary protection will be the overall strategy. I also allow myself to comment on the Progress Party, when we were told that Norwegian roads were of Albanian standard. Previously, we've heard that they're of foreign standard. I drove a few months ago the main road through Sierra Leone -- Sierra Leone's E6 -- if you like. The standard on that road is much, much worse than the way I drive over the eye mountain in the summer. That is the reality. If Ministers of Transport from developing countries came here and heard that we had un-national standards on the roads, they wouldn't understand what representatives of the Progress Party are talking about. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1181	Governments called for offensive environmental proposals from the Progress Party. I would like to remind him of the many proposals of the Advance Party on the liming of watercourses, the fight against salmon and the fight against Gyrodactylus salaris, where we have proposed significantly greater appropriations than the Government. You could almost ask if the fight for wild breeds is not an environmental project, since he does not include it. My question is compulsory protection versus voluntary protection. Farmers and forest owners have for many, many years said that they should be involved in voluntary protection, it requires trust between the authorities and the landowners. So now you've got coercive protection that goes against the local landowner and local people's elected wishes. Does the Council of State think that the treatment of this issue, where local democracy is being overrun, is helping to increase confidence, which is an important premise to be able to bet on voluntary forest protection in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1188	I think it is very important that we maintain that the main strategy is voluntary protection. We shall try to do that as far as possible - I believe that in the vast majority of cases we will do it - and that we shall try to reduce the conflicts associated with local protection decisions as much as possible. I could sometimes also want help from the Progress Party to reduce the conflicts related to protection - I mention it not only in this matter in particular. Every time it is possible to create a conflict around some form of protection, the Progress Party could instead be involved in reducing the conflict, not just increasing it. It goes without saying that the conflicts in this matter as such are not what in itself creates confidence. That is exactly why we have launched so many measures to reduce the problem. I would also like to say, yes, in the case of wild breeds, there is one of the few things in which I have seen a real commitment to the environment of some representatives of the Progress Party. Let me put it this way: there's some of the closest Progress Party comes solid fish in this area. The representative Tord Lien has shown a real and great commitment to the villa axis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1197	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1202	This is not the first time we are discussing this matter. Time and again, I have been somewhat surprised by the arguments of some representatives as to why it is not possible to support the presentation of this major case to the Stortinget for consideration. Some representatives, especially from the Central Party, say that they really agree with us in the Advance Party, but they are repeatedly voting against it. The matter has a very important principle in addition to the economic and practical aspects of the Trillemark itself. First of all, the case concerns the fundamental principle of protecting private ownership, on which the Norwegian constitution itself is based. Furthermore, the matter concerns the importance of local democracy, and the community, which in this case is completely overrun. Not only are the local authorities in these municipalities being overrun - there is a large majority of the population who disagree with what the government has decided. Not only that: in addition, everyone, except one or two, on the Busherud bench stated that they really disagree with the Government. In that case, I just think it should be lacking that the whole matter should be sent to the Stortinget, that we should secure the widest possible democratic anchoring. It's just that one should take such matters in Stortinget. We should have had a fundamental debate on how much protection the Government can carry out without the Storting getting the cases submitted for consideration. So here the government chooses to say no to a very good offer from the landowners and municipalities for a voluntary scheme. A clearer signal to the entire District Norway cannot be given: that it is not profitable to manage forest and land well, as it has been done up to now. Until now, there has been, and that is, biodiversity - with private owners of land. The field is not protected today, but the species are now. It is also a rather clever signal to give to those living in the districts. You'd think you'd set up a viable district Norway and take the landowners seriously. Therefore, Stortinget should take the opportunity to ask for the matter to be presented to the Stortinget, so that there will be a proper debate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1216	As a representative and chairman of the district council in Buskerud Progress Party, I have been very committed to this matter. I have received numerous calls for help, not only from advance party politicians and voters, but also from local politicians from the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. One has been headlong to the process that has been carried out, which was first started by Røres Børge Burnde, and which was then taken over by the red-green government. It is also interesting to note that the Right is absent in this debate here today. So our red-green government has now decided to implement the enforcement of 147 000 target forests in Trillemarka. In this way, food and nutrition, which has been in the municipalities for generations, is being destroyed. The Progress Party believes this is a dramatic attack on local democracy and goes across St.meld. No 26 for 2006-2007 on interaction with landowners and local democracy. If the Storting does not turn around in this matter, it will be a crushing defeat not only for local democracy, but for common sense. The case shows that the centre party in Buskerud has kept the voters too fooled. The only people who have been shaved are the big group of the Progress Party and the Progress Party of Buskerud. The Center Party Per Olaf Lundtigen has repeatedly thrown a lip in the media saying that the Advance Party only talks, but has not done anything in the matter. Nothing is further from the truth. The advance party politicians have visited the area a number of times, we've talked to the landowners, to the municipalities, and we've taken up proposals twice before on the matter here in Stortinget. The amazing thing is that Lundtigen and the Center Party have voted against us both times. In connection with the Government's decision in the case, Per Olaf Lundtigen said, according to the NRK, that he would in any case vote against compulsory protection. You cannot say that this is a direct lie, but it is not possible to get closer to a lie when you actually vote twice against the matter being dealt with in Stortinget. It is obvious that the Centre Party has given up, and has allowed the Swedish authorities to manage the protection policy in Norway. In this case, Lundtigen is once again completely undressed and without credibility as a district policy. As we see in the setting today, the party of progress has no plans to fail, and we then deal with the matter for the third time. Otherwise, I also notice that Sigrun Eng from the Workers' Party, and from Buskerud, is here today. She has often marketed herself as a district spokeswoman, but has unfortunately fallen completely through in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1227	The President would point out that it is bad for a sender to send characteristics to co-representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1230	The Trillemarka-Rollag mountain forest area in Buskerud is protected. Should it be by dictatorship and coercion or on the basis of respect for the values with which owners and communities identify? It is crucial that the limitation and protection provisions are applied. Should only the wishes of environmental protection organisations, or the concerns of local government acting unanimously, be decisive for the decision? Through the answer to these questions, one clearly states the interests and values with which an opinion is supposed to shape public policy and the identity with which it identifies itself. The landscape of the area is characterised by the use of rural people. Farms are small, and a picks up some of their income here. Low income has been compensated by a clear identity. Traditions and consideration for future generations weigh heavily. It is precisely the long-term management through several generations of private owners that has made the area have many environmental values. Today's owners also think in the long term. They have no reluctance to ensure protective species. On the contrary, Councillor! The ‘Thank you’ for this long-term administration was that in 2002, the Minister for the Environment, Højres Børge Brende, forced the protection of the environment an area of 43 km2. The environmental protection organisations proposed a five-fold increase in this area. This creates frustration and conflict. Despite the provocative behaviour of the state and environmental protection organisations, the three municipalities of Sigdal, Rollag and Nore and Uvdal have the power to be accepted by forestry to protect an area of almost 100,000 deches. Their acceptance was very much ingrained. It came to recognize that there would be a compromise that everyone could accept. The Protected Site would be Norway's largest forest reserve. Municipalities drew the limits of their alternative so that the protection area would cover, as far as possible, registered environmental values. They did very well. In the autumn of 2006, the new Red List came from the Art Database, which confirmed that environmental values were in the municipality alternative. In the light of the new information from the Art Database's Red List in December 2006, the Municipal Option was revised to ensure all endangered Red List species, CR, EN and VU, and all nationally valuable core areas, three-star and four-star. Get it out of here! This was unanimously endorsed by three local authorities, from all parties in the County Committee in Buskerud, with the exception of SV, and from the County Council in Buskerud. The proposal is fully in line with the Soria Moria Declaration by the Government, which states that the protection of the coniferous forests should be enhanced in order to ensure biodiversity and that protection should be based as far as possible on the voluntary protection system. It's unique, what's done locally. It's unique! When and where has it happened before? Nowhere! Therefore, I have registered and will regret the fact that the Government, following strong pressure from those who do not live and work in the area - and against the unanimous municipal government-supported local authority alternative - chose the proposal of the Directorate for Nature Management regarding the geographical extent of the coniferous forest reserve. It is important that such a major matter of principle be discussed in the Stortinget. It will also happen today, regardless of the decision here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1262	I would also like to give my supplement as a local politician, and in particular to the case spokesperson. I actually feel the need to give a more nuanced picture than the previous speakers from Buskerud have done so far. I have also had close contact with two of the three spokesmen who are in charge of the Workers' Party, who can make their recordings. They're the ones who have the shoe on, who know where to print. And they're the ones with the local anchor. I admit, in line with several people, that I was among those who initially wanted the local alternative - and the disappointment was there immediately. But the most important thing for those who live there is actually to get clarifications, and they've got that. Afterwards, there has been a close dialogue about the regulations to be written. The spokespersons in my area call this more than half a local saying when it comes to both the initiative and the offer they have now received. They're looking forward, they're seeing the possibilities, and they're very happy with the nutrition fund that pays for more bones to stand on. And they get money both for care and for information work. There is a new practice that has been put in place. When this becomes a reality, you may omit the comments that the Riksrevision has in other areas of protection. However, there are some challenges some years ahead. What they're asking for is what will happen after the five years for which some leads have now been put. I just want to say to the Council of State that there are also many good signals from local forces, with the provision of good help to make this a successful project. I don't think the world is going down because of this decision. It also gives possibilities, says those who wear the shoe. I am satisfied to know this greeting from the Buskerud bench.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1275	Hardly any case has created so much debate and so much frustration and bitterness in Buskerud as this case. It is a serious example of the fact that the big community is completely overstepping local interests - local interests that have been constructive, tidy and concerned with finding solutions, as several other speakers have been about. When the matter came to a difficult conclusion and it was decided how large the protection area would be, the municipalities and the landowners stretched out a hand - a hand that was so open that even the County Environmental Protection Department in Buskerud found it possible to recommend the proposal for a voluntary protection of 100 km2. Unfortunately, when the Government has now taken a different decision, despite local assurances that this would not happen, it has to be noted that this decision is final. The right-hand side disagrees with the decision. We believe that there has been an abuse of the local population: there has been an infringement of local self-government, and there has been an infringement of the respect for the administrative responsibility of local authorities and landowners over generations. There is a reason why Trillemarka is now proposed for protection. The reason, of course, is that the area has been protected in such a good way that it may be a current protection area. It has also been, through this decision. We disagree with the Progress Party - and we have always been - that this matter should be transferred to the Stortinget and dealt with here. It is the rules of the matter that require the government to take these kinds of decisions. Otherwise, the Right agrees with the Progress Party’s observation that this Decision is in fact ‘an infringement’ against the community. As the representative Lundtägen and others had in mind, there was a very constructive process locally, where the municipalities of Rollag, Sigdal and Nore and Uvdal, together with the landowners, were able to find a solution that would in many ways fulfill the intentions that existed when it came to protection. It would protect most of the Red List species, and it would protect the forest in a large area -- which in any case would be the largest forest protection area in Norway. We note that the government here has bowed to the interests of nature protection, the same interests that linked themselves to some hoarding machines a few years ago, and that started the whole process. This is disappointing. We disagree with the decision, but we respect that the government has that decision-making authority. And we can do a little bit of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1293	The rapporteur was very concerned about the fact that the King of the Council of State is going to decide on matters like this. ‘We must follow the procedures’ is the message, both from him and from many others, who defend the safeguard decision that has been taken. One must follow the procedures. The reason why this has become a matter in Stortinget is that many in Stortinget react - they feel that it is not the signals that Stortinget has given, which is now being followed up by the Government. They see it as the government's going its own way. The focus has been on voluntary protection in recent years. It has been the premise when the protective work has been discussed. One has seen that coercion protection has resulted largely in conflict after conflict, where it goes with more money to lawyers' fees than to the compensation actually paid to landowners. We can't have it that way. The Council of State even said in its intervention that voluntary protection should continue to be a key strategy for the Government. But now we're experiencing an enormous amount of coercive protection. What is the basis for believing that in the future local landowners and forest owners will have confidence that voluntary protection will be a good strategy? On 31 March 2003, Ivar Korsbakken, then director of the Norwegian Forest Association, wrote that voluntary protection requires forest owners to have full confidence in environmental protection authorities. This was five years ago. These signals have obviously not been followed, when one now implements a huge force guard, as one knows will create strong reactions locally. There is no reason to believe that the line of voluntary protection will be a success--as the council of state later as--for the trust here has been broken. This should worry the government council in particular and the other eager guards here, who want to protect as much as possible to get a percentage at the bottom -- not to see what an actual guardian is. The representative Lundtägen has already responded to Solheim's challenge to the Progress Party: Where is the Progress Party environmentally friendly in relation to the Government? The representative of Lundtigen has shown that one will comply with exactly the ecological criteria you want. It is possible that the Council of State -- he shakes his head -- believes that Lundtegen can't do what he's talking about. In this case, I think Lundtigen knows very well what he's talking about. He has had very good contact with local communities, while the Council of State has been very eager to talk to environmental protection organisations after mouth to get the percentage of 4.6 or 5 for protected areas. That's the premise. In a struggle to be as environmentally friendly as possible, the percentage is not necessarily the only success criterion. The success criterion here must be the degree to which you care for the diversity of species that you want to care for. We have many experiences that suggest that local landowners who have maintained the forest through generations will also be able to do so in an excellent way in the future, while from a central point of view it is shown that you do not trust local people, local authorities. I find the lack of trust very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1311	I would like to welcome you to the debate and also to congratulate the representative of Trond Helleland on a very good contribution. He came late, but well into the debate. It was actually the right that started this problem for Buskerud. So now it looks like you're going in the right direction, and it also comes out of the comments. The representative of SV Thorkildsen said it is important that people live widely. That's a point of view that we share. The question then is: if people are going to live in the districts, what are you going to live on - are you going to live on business and productive jobs, or are you going to live on social security and compensation schemes because the government has protected our districts? For the Progress Party, the answer is very clear and clear. We believe that we should have a sensible industrial policy and a sensible transport policy, while SV is clearly ending and believes that people should live in the districts, but they should live by social security and compensation schemes. The representative Lundtegen said that in this matter the government's strategy was dictated and coerced, and that the government is breaking the Soria Moria declaration. It is rare that I agree with the representative Lundtigen, but in this context I fully agree with him - this is dictated and coerced. What was perhaps more alarming was that the representative Lundtägen complained about the government's way of dealing with the matter. It is possible that I have misunderstood the parliamentary procedure, but as far as I have understood, it has something to complain about from this pulpit - at least if one regrets the way in which the Government behaves - more implications than what we normally associate with the word 'apologies'.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1322	The two main points of this debate are biodiversity and volunteering, local democracy. First of all, biodiversity: we are very lucky to have created the Art Database in Trondheim. We are very fortunate to have been given the management of the Art Database, both administratively and administratively, which sets out strict professional requirements. It is no coincidence that the Centre Party’s large-scale group contributed to strengthening the economy of the Art Database. One of the main reasons why we did that is that we have learned that the Art Database places the most emphasis on the professional and less emphasis on being politically correct. That is a reassuring attitude. This is a position on which we want several of the state-funded research institutions to build in other contexts. There are several people who talk about protecting the vast majority of red-listed species. Someone's talking about vulnerable and endangered species. It requires a higher level of precision. What's at the heart of this is the endangered species of red lists. Vulnerable red-listed species we have mostly in all areas. We have to separate the less important from the important. The important thing is the endangered species and the core of the municipal alternative. For the many people who have worked on it, it is important that all - absolutely all - the endangered species are protected by the definitions of the Art Database and the registrations of the Environmental Protection Organisation Last Chance, later BioFocus, by the revised municipal option. The thing is, there's always someone who thinks it's fun to have something more--it's fun to go further. I can also agree that in some situations it is a good thing to have more, but the core of this matter is that a unique local understanding has been reached - an alternative that would protect about 100,000 dean, and that would have laid the basis for an epoch in a dialogue. Unfortunately, it was not taken. There will be more discussions on this matter. I'm glad too much of the other thing that the government has done, and what we're going to do next, in terms of local government. We're going to go into a number of these relationships. These are important questions, and it may be helpful to correct some of the errors that, according to the views of the Buskerud Centerparti and also the views of the Buskerud Arbeiderparti, have been made by the Government in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1335	It may be interesting to follow the discussions of government parties between themselves and hear them fighting against themselves, but it is absolutely incredible that you have not grasped the possibility of choosing an alternative to voluntary protection here. There has probably been a rather extensive local process of finding good and appropriate limits, including for the properties to be managed after a safeguard decision has been taken. I expect that there is a lot of work done locally, and that is now, in itself, not taken into account. What has not been part of the debate today is a matter that was up in the Supreme Court a little while ago. There, the Supreme Court intervened and said that in case of expropriation, the State would use 5 pst. the calculation rate, while the Norwegian concession law allows for up to 4 pst. calculation rate. This means that the landowners who are now being forced to protect themselves in Trillemarka can expect the state to fight for a compensation that is approx. 20 pst. below what they would have received if these properties had been traded on the free market. I think there was someone who said earlier that there was going to be more money for lawyers' fees than what ultimately comes to the foundation. And that's actually a big danger. Thus, the Supreme Court has intervened in a policy provision on what is to be the market price of forest in Norway. Normally, one would say that in case of expropriation, the state should actually pay a little more than what you would have received in the market, because you have to give up something else you wouldn't have given up. I think this is going to significantly increase the level of conflict around Trillemarka. It's going to be frightening to follow the process forward - how hard the government is going to have to fight for properties at a price of 20 pst. under what the market provides when it actually enters and enforces expropriations. In this case probably not the last word is said. It is awfully sad that you did not choose to comply with the constructive process that has been local. We're going to discuss this more.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1346	I'm not going to repeat the arguments that have been put forward earlier in the debate; I just want to comment on a few of the constructive recordings or discussion themes that came right at the end. Per Olaf Lundtigen pulled out the Art Database. He is at least right in the very basic, that more precise knowledge of what threats are to Norwegian species is absolutely crucial - to distinguish between those species that are really strongly threatened, and those that are not so threatened. We need more knowledge about this. This is a theme that I want to try to work on more. It takes money. It's a budget battle, like many other questions, but we need more money for monitoring, for strengthening. It's e.g. a large Swedish project to map the diversity of species in Sweden. There is every reason to believe that very many species are similar in Norway and Sweden, and that we could gain by being connected to that project. I just want to ask that the Storting have it under surveillance in the future, and that other parties also consider whether this is not an area where more resources should be invested, and that we get more knowledge about such a very central theme. Then Ulf Erik Knudsen and the Progress Party tried to make a difference between the Progress Party and others on the basis that we want money transfers to districts for protection. Then I think you hit yourself pretty hard on the stick. Regional transfers of funds related to protection are some of the largest potential of District Norway in the years to come for excessive, significant, cash flows. And this isn't weird. Throughout Europe, many rural areas have been given transfers of funds either in relation to what can be called the management of natural services - it may be more unspoiled nature - or in relation to the management of a natural environment in agriculture. At a time when, as a result of the WTO and a number of other factors, we will almost certainly get less of the kind of district transfers that we have now seen, there is a difficult opportunity for transfers to District Norway, not related to inaction, not to sitting on the hull, as was suggested here, but related to local management of tourist values, national parks, of protected areas and of protected areas, also within the cultural landscape. I think you should start looking at this as a great opportunity for District Norway and not a threat. This is also a major global discussion. With Norway now so strongly committed to the protection of rainforests, it is also in reality paying an area for a natural environment service to the rest of the world. No one can believe that the poorest in the Amazon rainforest will preserve this rainforest for mankind, if no one is willing to pay them for it. Just as payment for protection and active protection is a potential source of income for Norwegian districts, so is a potential source of income for many poor people in the world. We just have to develop the thinking around this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1358	The last recorded by the Council of State surprises me. Is it true that the Council of State believes that tourists see the natural beauty of Norwegian nature only if they travel to a national park, while it is not worth travelling to the same area if it had not had national park status? Does it have to have a landscape protection area or salmon fjord status to make it beautiful? It must be possible for the community to develop the tourism industry without the State taking a protective decision over one's head. Now the Nature Conservation Association has moved forward the Prefecture Chair in Rogaland as an area that a person wants to protect. Does the Council of State really think that people would travel more to the pulpit if one protected this, than one would do if that was the way it is today? There's no reason to think it's like that. If you market the pulpit better, yes, then people will travel there, people who otherwise did not know about this pearl. It's not that if this area gets protective status, people travel and visit it, because then, suddenly, it must have been very nice. What does one say then, when one says in the beginning that the large income source in the districts is going to be income from the fact that the state binds the land? What kind of potential does one see in everything else? Does this mean that agriculture is now going to face a safe death and that the only income for agriculture is that we are going to preserve connected land? This is how this government conducts agricultural policy, even though they claim that it is only the Progress Party and the Right who want to put agriculture down. But it shows a little of the ambitions of the Minister for the Environment on behalf of agriculture. What about the potential for small-scale power plants, which one will remove by tying this? That's one of the main reasons why all the municipalities involved around the pulpit say no, no, no, when they talk about protection -- not because they don't care about the pulpit as an environmental monument and a natural experience, but because everything else they could do in the districts as well as tourism will be set aside. What about the investment in bioenergy, for which this government just a few days ago put forward a strategy? Biofuels and bioenergy should be the big thing that the Government believes will save the environment. One won't be able to take out a lot of timber if one protects everything. What about fish farming, which is an unsubsidized industry that generates large export revenues? Yes, there are environmental problems on the side of it, but then they get a walk on the concrete environmental aspects, instead of pretending that protection here is going to be a huge source of income. I ask the Council of State to document with factual reports the potential of income from the protection of areas, and what kind of extra income one expects it to generate in tourism in relation to the tourism that you already have today, without protecting the areas, when one also loses small energy, bioenergy, fish farming - all this other. If the protection of areas is going to be the major source of income for District Norway, I think this government needs redemption as soon as possible. In fact, I think the Central Party would support that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1371	Now it's getting wilder and wilder here. First of all, one of the greatest natural attractions in the United States is Yellowstone National Park. People travel there from all over the United States and the world. It's probably not one human being around the world who thinks it would have been a similar tourist stream there, if one had not protected the essential natural values of the area and facilitated tourism in connection with the protection. Norway is now in the great and interesting situation that many municipalities want to become the national park municipality. It is precisely because they see the potential for income, work and development — but also for local pride and identity linked to national parks. Of course, it is a combination of protection, use and a number of other measures that can give District Norway a secure future. Let me also say that protection is not always just about protecting the so-called pristine nature where people have not in any way set their feet. It is about protecting cultural memories that are human intervention at the highest level, but in many places it is also about various forms of protection of the cultural landscape. Many of the protection values, including those related to rosin species, are places where man has intervened - for example. Many meadows grow to many places in Norway, perhaps as a result of climate change, perhaps as a result of less grazing. There may be many other areas. Roadside landscapes often have protective values. There is a series of different types of protection values - from pristine nature to cultural memories via cultural landscapes. All of this must be seen as opportunities for the development of our country, of course, in combination with the unfathomable many other possibilities of District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1378	The representative of Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1381	My reaction was not to create national parks. It was based on what the Council of State had in mind was a central strategy for income for District Norway, which was therefore to be a land bonding. I've been to Yellowstone National Park. I've been on most of the major national parks in the United States -- I lived there for five years and had the National Park Pass, which gives free access. It was a pleasure to travel around, see how it was organized, how they had protected the areas in cooperation with municipalities and states over there to organize so that more people would experience nature. I totally appreciated that, and I think it's a value that most Americans appreciate. But there's a certain difference between that and what we've seen happen in Norwegian protection processes, where one of the closest attempts to imitate today's nature as it is - and experience major conflicts with the local population and make further industrial activities in the areas impossible. That's the difference between the US and the Norwegian way of approaching protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1388	Per-Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1391	Just a short comment on something important that came up here, finally. Biodiversity is the result of some areas being completely untouched and others being touched. The special thing in Norway is that we've touched nature in a good way in some areas. There have been some traditions and some people who have shown piety and respect for how to touch, i.e. what modes of operation to use the land, use of the land, use of the land. We've had a field farm, a seater farm, a forest husbandry education that has given us a lot of qualities. It would have been nice for the villagers about the use that I'm trying to describe here, had been more valued, higher esteemed by the fact that a received income for it -- that it didn't just become tourist magnets that one would live off. It reminds me of Hamsun's «A Word to Us» from 1910. We deserve something better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1400	I'm a little surprised by the latest developments in the debate. I think it's amazing to hear Solvik-Olsen. If there is one party that really undermines nature's self-esteem and the significance of it for this nation - not least through the incredibly important contribution of those who manage our large land areas - it is, in my opinion, the Progress Party. I don't think the process that you're about to complete, somehow destroys Trillemarka's fundamental values. I believe that the work now done by the protection decision taken by the Government will add to Trillemarka, landowners, local democracy, local people, etc. large potentials and large values - not least through the process currently under way in relation to regulations and how one might expect to combine the consideration of the values in place with the possibilities that lie there for future sources of income. I think it's important to bring it with me, and I'm sorry it hasn't been focused on in this debate. Realities were, in fact, the municipal option of 100,000 targets. Most nature conservation would have 200 000, the technical council was 147 000 - and that has become the conclusion. Most of those who represented local democracy, at least in the dialogue they had with me, initially agreed that about 147 000 were right, but they would protect 100,000, they would have restrictive use in line with what the protection processes actually provide for the remaining areas. That's the reality of the matter -- and then it's turned up so that it kind of hits the hands of local democracy. It is the Party of Advancement that is leading this tone in this Chamber. If there is one party that really wants to undermine local democracy in any context, it is precisely the Progress Party - which in no area but precisely in terms of protection has confidence in local politicians and in how they govern their municipality. It is a strange combination, and it has been made clear at the end of this debate. It wasn't surprising, but it might give a perspective on what the Progress Party puts in local democratic values.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1409	Ulf Erik Knudsen has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1412	It was the Council of State's last post that prompted me to respond. In the future, it seemed that tourist activities were only to be carried out in the districts of Norway. I think that many who now live in the districts, don't see the joy, as Councillor Solheim obviously sees it, in being kiosk officers or guides to tourists. I actually think that when you live in the districts, you want to do agriculture, you want to do forestry, you want to do business with other types of productive business and not just be kiosks and guides, like you want to be with a future full-blown district Norway under SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1417	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1432	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to the main speakers of the parties and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of the parties and the submissions from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1441	The Committee had an open hearing in this case on 13 December 2007, where the Water Movement, NORVAR, Veolia Water, the Bedecking Water, the NHO, the Trade Union, the KS, etc. Silence. Technical infrastructure is the backbone of a modern society. This infrastructure includes, inter alia: transport, energy systems, water supply and sewerage systems. According to the NRK, 1.4 million Nordics receive water that may contain pathogenic parasites - despite the obligation of owners of water plants to have purification methods that prevent infectious agents from reaching the water taps, and despite the fact that the water plants are largely publicly owned and officially controlled. So there's no "shanglabangla" that will ensure that millions of Norwegians get good water in the water taps. It will cost about 50 billion kroner to replace all the bad water pipes in Norway, i.e. NOK 30,000 per year. household and with enormous cost-levy for the municipalities. This is where the Progress Party sees that it can actually be an advantage for the municipalities to have partners among the private actors to rely on, also in the strong promise needed in the municipality of Norway in this area to get a safe water supply. I also do not see that the government parties agree to raise this with heads and ears, more money, to the municipalities in this important area. How is it that you want to approach this issue? Well, it's coming up with a proposal. The water and sewerage structure remains the whole time of the public forever; it is part of the solution of the government parties. This is not a solution to the important problems. The Progress Party is concerned that people should have access to good water. Most today receive good water from their local waterworks. We will nevertheless refer to the case with the dreaded parasite that was housed both in Bergen in 2004 and last summer in Oslo. The public has an important task in controlling the VA sector. Water and sewerage are largely already publicly owned, but there are also private water and sewerage infrastructures. For example, many industrial companies have their own water treatment plants to comply with government emission regulations, which I see as unproblematic. Nor do we have any concerns about solutions there, for example. industrial enterprises and municipalities cooperate on water treatment or other water and sewerage structures. The outsourcing of operational tasks and the organisation of VA activities in private cooperatives must, of course, be allowed, provided that safety and preparedness considerations are adequately taken into account. It is necessary to distinguish between the terms ‘competition concession’ and ‘privatisation’ and any prohibition of private operation of water and sewerage would have adverse consequences. However, long-term cooperation agreements between public and private actors on the supply of public services must also be possible. We will show that in Norway we already have good experience in public and private cooperation in the road sector, and see no reason why it should not also be used in water and sewerage. As the water and sewerage industry in Norway and internationally increases in professionalisation, it would be natural to bring together all legislation in this field in a comprehensive Norwegian VA law, as has been done in the energy sector with the Energy Act. That is why the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have put forward the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals for a comprehensive Norwegian water and sewerage law.’ We believe that water quality does not depend on whether it is private or public ownership, but on the requirements that are imposed, and on control procedures. Therefore, the proposal presented in the document is irrelevant to the maximum real water and sewerage challenges. The point of progress is of the opinion that it is still permissible for the operations to be put on the market, provided that the safety and preparedness considerations, as I have mentioned earlier, are adequately taken into account. In the interests of local freedom of action and local democracy, municipalities should be able to choose other forms of operation. We also believe that municipalities should be able to decide on this regardless of what Stortinget thinks, and that it is part of the strengthening of local democracy. I want to promote the proposal of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1470	The representative Ib Thomsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1475	The party of progress and the parties of government have different ideological approaches to public ownership issues in general. I want to challenge the representative Thomsen on the following: Is the representative Thomsen positive that private persons also enter and own the infrastructure in the Norwegian water and sewerage sector, if it does so in cooperation with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1482	I have read the proposal for the Central Party and have seen that it is moderated strongly from the time it was promoted in Stortinget to after we have dealt with it in the Committee. We almost do not recognize the proposal in relation to what was originally promoted. It appears that the Central Party has changed its policy in that area only during the examination of the matter in the Committee. Then I was asked if we have any problems with private ownership of the infrastructure. In many areas of Norway, private infrastructure is owned, and it works very well. What we've been up to here is that you have to be able to evaluate this locally. We have faith in local democracy. The central party also says that they have faith in local democracy, but in this case you actually prove the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1489	Does the representative Thomsen think that the Progress Party could at local level see it as worthwhile to bring private actors into the ownership of the water and sewerage sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1494	Yes, I think that in many municipalities you want to consider private as owners in the same way that you consider whether the municipalities themselves should take these large investments as you can see that the municipalities have to do in the future to ensure good water quality. But I want to ask questions back: What other tasks does the Centre Party see as being able to enter as owners in the municipalities? Do they want to overrun the municipalities in several areas? What can the municipalities expect there? There are such questions you should ask - perhaps not least to yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1501	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1504	It is an important day for all residents of Norway when the Stortinget is today dealing with the proposal of the representatives of the Trogve Slagsvold Vedum and Per Olaf Lundtägen to ensure, by law, that the water and sewerage infrastructure remains the whole-time of the public in the future. The drinking water is to count as a vital necessity for all people. Everyone depends on water to survive. It may not be that someone should make money on such an important and necessary natural resource. Well, we can just think about what's going on, for example. would have happened in a city if a house had begun to burn, and the fire service could not have access to enough water to turn it off. What would have happened if the private waterworks had gone bankrupt? Would the population sit with empty cranes and depend on municipalities to drive out tankers with water to the population? Should the municipality take over the bankruptcy residence and get it back on foot, so that the private could come in again to foam the cream? Several countries have previously decided to strengthen official control of drinking water. In recent years, Sweden, Switzerland and the Netherlands have introduced laws to prevent private individuals from taking control of water supply. It is high time that Norway too was given a law in this important area. NOU 2006:6. When safety is paramount, the water and sewerage infrastructure is a natural monopoly activity and a critical infrastructure for the functioning of society. That is why I am proud to be able to stand on this platform today and know that I belong to a majority who will take this important step. Without a red-green majority in this hall, this would not have been possible. Here we really see the lines of Norwegian policy. By a civil majority, it would not have been possible to adequately secure this sector. Today, everything is essential to the water and sewerage infrastructure owned by the public sector, but there is a possibility that supranational leadership can put increased pressure on liberalisation in this sector as well. Multinational companies can now abandon their plans to turn the water and sewerage sector in Norway into a business area. Public ownership is now being legalised. We are pleased with the support of the Christian People's Party, but see that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe it would be unproblematic to let go of private owners as long as the quality of drinking water can be ensured by the law. This would open up to tenders and commercialise this important infrastructure. It is important to clarify that the bill relates to ownership and not to how each municipality organises the operation of water and sewerage services. Municipalities and municipal and intermunicipal owned companies will always need to make tenders. This may be the laying of wires, the construction of sewage treatment plants and the carrying out of specialised tasks which the municipality does not consider appropriate to have personnel or machinery to carry out itself. We would stress that the majority's recommendation is about ownership regulation. The minority’s concern that public ownership will continue to impede Public Private Cooperation in the water and sewerage sector is therefore not real. The decision on the tasks to be entrusted to the private sector must be left to the ownership of each municipality and in any case have no irreversible consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1521	The proposal in this case reminds me of when Alexander Kielland, because the authorship was no longer profitable, had taken the job as mayor of Stavanger and wrote the despair to his friend: here I am walking around with the entire town's sewers in my head. It is perhaps where this matter really belongs, locally in each local government, to each individual rapporteur. The proposers have put forward a proposal that Norwegian water and sewerage infrastructure should remain in public ownership for the future. When one promotes such a drastic proposal, one would probably think that one is facing a very serious, acute situation, and that this will solve a fundamental problem. It doesn't. It's not an answer to a single challenge. Norwegian water and sewerage infrastructure is mainly owned by public authorities today, and this has been the case for a long time. This has not resulted in a particularly good water and sewerage infrastructure, either from an environmental protection point of view or from a consumer point of view. One looks at surveys among consumers in Oslo at the latest today that there are very many who have low confidence in water quality - so the challenge for Norwegian water and sewerage activities is not ownership, but quality. Then it's a little strange that someone chooses to promote this proposal as a kind of main solution to a problem, but the proposal raises more questions than it answers. And the answers given in the proposal are essentially wrong. What is meant, for example: with water and sewer infrastructure? Where's the limit going? The applicant's rapporteur has raised the question of industry. Where does the boundary between what is water and sewerage infrastructure to be owned and owned by industry go, and what is to be municipal? Where does one believe that the boundary will go in the future? Today, it is true that each household owns its water and sewer infrastructure, which goes from public to house. Will it also be part of the public water and sewerage infrastructure? What does public ownership mean? Prevents public ownership, e.g.: OPS solutions if desired locally? What does one here mean about local self-government? In the proposal, the proposers wrote: ‘By ensuring that municipalities, regardless of their organisational form, operate the VA activities autonomously, the VA sector’s right and environmental perspectives will be underlined.’ Well, it's something quite different than what the figures for the government parties just said, namely that it should be free for the municipalities themselves to choose different operating modes, competitive outsourcing, etc. There must obviously be a big difference between what was the intention of the proposers and what has become the conclusion of the governmental parties. The only answer given in this matter is, in fact, the proposal of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. This is absolutely an area where there is a need for a new policy through a new law. It will best be ensured through a comprehensive Norwegian water and sewerage law. In that case, they were able to properly elucidate these questions and have been informed of the boundaries between where public responsibility and private responsibility should go. So this is a proposal that does not get a majority, while the majority chooses to go on a principle until they have really discussed its contents.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1542	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1545	The Party Right is traditionally very clear on the issue of ownership and who has ownership, in the sense that the person with ownership also has the right to control. What is an undeniable fact is that the water and sewerage sectors are natural monopolies. In the name of competition, no one has yet implemented that there are two lines up to each subscriber, so that competition can be obtained between the owners of the two subscribers. Is it not true that when there are natural monopolies, there are opportunities to abuse their market power? Is it not a fundamental doctrine in the theory of competition that in such cases where one can abuse it, Community ownership, in the form of cooperative or public ownership, prevails?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1554	In a theoretical world with a free market, the representative Lundtigen is completely right, but none of us live in a theoretical world - neither Lundtigen nor signed. This means that, in a society in which Norwegians use completely different instruments than ownership, the state and municipalities of the public sector, in order to ensure the conditions under which Lundtigen is involved, also in areas other than the water and sewerage sectors. This is ensured through other types of regulatory regulation, through planning and not least through regulation in relation to charges. What is the problem of drawing the kind of conclusions that the Central Party and the government parties have made in this case, without discussing the premises, is for example. to prevent good solutions in cooperation between the public and the private, because they are based on principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1561	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1564	To the extent that I can calm Bent Höie: the decision we are making today is a principle decision. Many of the questions that the representative Höie is raising, we will come back to when we get a proposal for a law in this area, when we get this back to Stortinget. I do not think there is a cause for concern, and many of the questions that are unsolved in this document are operational responsibilities and operator responsibilities. We will discuss that at a later date, but what we are making a decision on is what is stated in paragraph I, namely that this should be owned by the public. This is perhaps a slightly unusual way of raising a case, but the matter itself is no less interesting and important for that reason, perhaps rather the opposite. The case raises several basic questions. The approach concerns two areas: ownership of the infrastructure, and the issue of one law on water and sewerage. The majority ask the Government to assess the follow-up of the peer review and NOU 2006:6 on a separate sectoral water and sewerage law. The third aspect, which we are not concerned with, which is outside the document, but which is perhaps the most principal, is who should have ownership of water, and how water should be managed. With us, with ample access to water, this is currently not the most relevant political issue. But for other parts of the world, where water is scarce, the ownership of water and water resources is perhaps the most highly topical political issue. For us, ownership of other natural resources is at the top of the political agenda. Although the availability of water is not our problem, I feel quite sure that this will be an important political debate in the future. It just has to come. Access to water must be seen as essential in order to maintain critical social institutions, the basic needs of society and the public's sense of security. If one agrees with such a postulate, the question becomes whether public ownership is a prerequisite for the public to perform this function satisfactorily. We in the majority answer yes, public ownership is not only the best way to organise this infrastructure, it is a prerequisite for the public to be able to properly secure the public's clean water. There are three basic assumptions for such an answer. Firstly, in order to secure water for the population, a critical dependence depends on the infrastructure. There's no other way to secure people's water. Secondly, there are no alternatives. This infrastructure is therefore absolutely necessary in order to ensure that this water is supplied to the population. So we're critically dependent on it, and it's absolutely necessary. It leads us to the third point, which is related to the first two: public ownership, however, will be responsible for the people getting water. This responsibility cannot be transferred to any private owner. Public opinion must also find alternatives in crisis situations. In other words, it is necessary for the person responsible for supply to also have ownership, because in a crisis situation there must be a close link between the emergency solutions in question. The absolute best way to establish emergency solutions is to be able to own the infrastructure to look it up against current emergency solutions. Private actors that are not responsible for supply cannot or will not be interested in current emergency solutions. This is why public ownership of water is necessary and appropriate. In this case, it is probably not relevant to deploy double infrastructure. In any case, it becomes monopoly, whether public monopoly or private monopoly. We just have to deal with that. It's not realistic to think that we can establish two sets of infrastructure. In other words, given their responsibilities, a public monopoly is preferable to a private monopoly. In relation to the original proposal, we've moderated it somewhat, because we haven't put the eternity perspective in, but we've stuck to this side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1583	I have to start by saying that this has been a rather clever matter to deal with in the committee. So it is a government party, the Central Party, which asks its own government to promote a cause for the Stortinget. We can wonder about the reasons for that, but I'll leave it up to the Center Party if they want to give an explanation. Why couldn't the government just promote it itself? At present, there is no imminent danger that ownership of the water and sewer structure will be privatized, but we do not know what the future will bring. It is positive to be leading was in this case, although the proposal today does not necessarily have a major practical significance right now. Water is essential for the basis of life. We must ensure that it is always easily accessible to the public at the lowest possible price. I have the sense of the logic of the proposal. Clean water is already scarce globally, and the fight for fresh water resources will increase in the future. There are now several examples of conflicts between countries where access to water resources is an important factor. The water and sewerage sector is also facing huge investment needs in maintenance. This is a challenge that I think the public is best fit to deal with in an appropriate way. Private investors entering the market with a five- or 10-year perspective may not share the same sense of responsibility for improving and maintaining the pipeline. There's a lot of values that we're talking about here. The infrastructure is financed by users and has a huge repurchase value. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal of public ownership, but believes that ownership alone does not guarantee quality and maintenance. This is another suggestion in the position that the Christian People's Party is together with the Right and the Advance Party on. We are asking the Government to come back with proposals for a comprehensive Norwegian water and sewerage law. Today, legislation in the field is scattered, yes, I think it is in as many as 12 departments. This leads to an unwieldy and little clear piece of legislation. There is a need for a clearer framework and for responsibility and competence to be brought together in one responsible department. I believe that the challenges of the sector are best addressed by a separate water and sewerage law. I hope the government takes the request from organisations such as NORVAR and KS seriously and quickly initiate work on a sector law in the VA area. The country's municipalities and experts in the field see a great need and want this law. I expect the government to do the same thing. Summaries: The Christian People's Party is behind the proposal in the document on fast law work related to ownership, but we also hope on step two in the process - that the work on a comprehensive VA law is started. We will then ensure both access, maintenance and quality of water resources. We must ensure this before we get into a possible crisis situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1598	Water doesn't have a taste, it doesn't have a color, and it doesn't have a smell. 70 pst. the surface of the earth is covered with water - either fresh water or, in general, salt water. In Norway we are spoiled with water in strie streams, water is not scarce, and we have been able to waste water with good conscience. The even Northman has taken the water as a matter of course. It's coming in the crane, and it's cheap. Document No The 8-proposal we are dealing with today deals with something I used last night and something I used today early, precisely the water and sewer infrastructure. Fortunately, in Norway we have not had the big political struggles about how everyone should be secured safe and fair water. But if we look a little bit, the battle for water is in many places very serious. The struggle for the rights of the water is sometimes, unfortunately, a cause for war. Fortunately, in Norway we are far from such a reality. But whoever owns the infrastructure in the VA sector will have great power over those who need the vital goods, that is, you and me. In Norway, luckily, there are public and user-led rates of ownership of water supply. So we're all in control. Water is a good thing you have to have, at any price. In Norway, we have a well-developed water network. It was a major expansion after World War II, and a nearly nationwide water and sewerage network was completed in the 1970s, and it continues to expand. A good water and sewerage network is essential for creating good living conditions for people. There is today a significant need for the renewal of the VA network and associated sewage treatment plants, and it is with public ownership that we have the best opportunity to ensure all top quality. A municipality may not defer a necessary investment for financial reasons until the law provides for all costs to be covered by the water charge. It is a comprehensive and costly job to put in place basic infrastructure for this sector. It is therefore in its form to deliver water and drain a natural monopoly. Very few people realize that you want to dig parallel wiring networks to promote competition. That competition would at least be very expensive. In such a monopoly as the supply of water, the owner of the grid will have enormous power. A private owner would have to have a return on the capital invested in that network, and no one would be able to reproach any private owner for having it. But is it desirable for society that primary needs and vital services such as water supply be subject to a future regime in which we have returns requirements? Fortunately, the majority of people in this room don't think so. Kofi Annan has called the water the blue gold. We look a little bit, we see which battle -- somewhere a vital battle and elsewhere an economic struggle -- it's getting control of the water, so you can get financial profit on the supply of water. If we go to England and see what bidding rounds it has been around ownership of water there, you see what strong stakes you put in if you open up private ownership in such basic infrastructure. One of the largest companies, Thames Water, that delivers water to eight million people and sewerage services to thirteen million people, has been sold and bought several times, and it has given a huge return to those who have been on the owner's side. We do not want such developments in Norway, a development in which corporate economic assessments and returns requirements should lead to such a basic service as water and sewerage. We want water and sewerage that has its sole purpose of delivering cheap and good water to everyone, and that has the best of society as its goal. The centre parties and the left side of Norwegian policy are united in this matter. We agree that those who are going to provide water and sewerage services should have the community's goal as their motivation for the job they do. Following this decision, which is now taken on the initiative of the Centre Party, multinational companies may abandon their plans to make this important social sector their business as well. The choice we have in this sector is a private monopoly or a public monopoly. We in the Center Party are in no doubt about what benefits society the best: it's a safe, public ownership. We recommend the proposals contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1619	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1622	The center party should want more people to think it's safe to drink the water from the jump. It is especially important that we have confidence in the drinking water we drink every day. I think that should be the main focus of the Center Party - especially when we see the study the evening post refers to today, which shows that 41 pst. by the citizens of Oslo, they do not trust the water they drink. I have three questions for the representative regarding local democracy. Does the representative not see that this proposal transcends local democracy and that local politicians do not have the opportunity to choose operational forms and partners? Does the representative see any parallel or connection in this respect with grids and water networks, which all households depend on today? Finally, my third question is: why has the Central Party changed its policy in this area only at the time when the matter has been dealt with in the Storting and in the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1629	For the Central Party, there has been one main issue in this matter, and it has been to ensure the ownership of basic infrastructure in terms of water and sewerage, which is vital for you and me and all of us. We don't think the answer to the problems we see in the water and sewerage sector is privatisation. We just think it's public property. We do not believe that we will be able to solve the quality challenges we face by entrusting operational responsibilities or ownership to private operators, because in today's VA law, water and sewerage works can impose the water tax and ensure the very quality that the inhabitants deserve. And if local politicians don't take care of it, they can be thrown into elections. We can say, you haven't done the job - we can throw you in the election. If they do the job, they might be trusted again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1636	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1640	The Co-operation Administration, at the time Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum, reduced the so-called Ullring Committee, which presented NOU 2006:6, when security is most important. Water is central to food. It is also important to ensure continued good water supply to the population. In the interests of safety and vulnerability, it is important to develop the best possible safety with regard to both drinking water sources, technical installations and distribution networks. Norway is very well off in terms of water supply. In addition, we have managed water resources in a good way. In the case of water and sewerage, Norwegian municipalities account for a large proportion of the drinking water supply and local government on behalf of the inhabitants. Many other countries have chosen to organise drinking water supplies differently, either through large state-owned, regional companies or through many private actors. One of the intentions of the Ullring Committee is to ensure that the Norwegian authorities are not forced through international trade agreements to approve the sale of waterworks and distribution networks to commercial operators in the absence of their own legislation. A SINTEF report from 2005, carried out on behalf of the KS, discussed the issue of international liberalisation in more detail. The conclusion is that in the short term, no decision on the liberalisation of the VA sector is expected from the EU side, including: as a result of different organisation of the VA service from country to country. The Ullring Committee was primarily concerned with security and preparedness and, in this context, found that the VA network and the power supply differed so that liberalisation of the VA sector is not as suitable as the mains power grid. Important differences include: that the VA network has a geographical demarcation and it is difficult to become a national or international market and that it is difficult to release to several competing actors in the VA network. Proposals have been based on the recommendation of the sample, but in the background we seem to be mistrustful of local democracy, which manages these activities. Very few Norwegian municipalities have tried to sell themselves out of VA facilities, and very few have suspended or privatised the drinking water supply itself. With regard to the construction and maintenance of mains and to the construction of technical installations, this is one of the most competitive activities in the municipal sector. The left has confidence in local democracy and today's management of the VA sector, and we do not see a wave of sales in municipal water works and drinking water rights. In view of this, the Left has no immediate urgency to amend a law to ensure that the water and sewerage infrastructure remains the whole time of the public forever. However, we see that, from a security perspective, it may be strategic for Norway to legislate more clearly on the ownership of the VA network than today. However, we want this to be done through an investigation into a new sectoral law on water and sewerage. As important as ensuring ownership, it is to clean up the conglomerate of government responsibilities and regulatory regulation in the sector. The VA sector is currently subject to at least six departments, and none of them have overall or coordinating sectoral responsibilities. The left will vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1655	Let me first give tribute to the two central party representatives for bringing up an important matter in Stortinget. It cannot be that the representatives of the government parties have been cut off from the possibility of promoting sensible proposals in the Stortinget. On the contrary. It strengthens the government's work that there will also be positive input here. I believe this is an important matter, because - as a number of speakers have done in many good ways - quality, safety and long-termity must be the central concerns. It has to be good water quality. People have to be safe on the water they get. It has to be sure that the water is good enough and that you get it. And there has to be long-term investment in this sector to get it done. A working group led by the State pollution regulator has concluded that there are a number of factors that argue that the infrastructure should continue to be owned by the public or consumers and that this should be legalised. So here's a professional setting that underlines the points of the two proposers. So, as Höie and others have been involved, there are a number of questions in the border country that need to be resolved. It will be possible to clarify precisely when a legislative proposal is submitted to the Stortinget. Any legislative act must exempt private cooperatives, and this must not prevent municipalities from continuing to outsource operational tasks to private individuals, as is currently the case. I am pleased that a majority in Stortinget wants to follow up on what is in the position of the State pollution regulator and in the proposal of the proposers. I see no need for a separate law for water and sewerage. I also think that will only delay the process. The government will then take on board the work of presenting a proposal for the Storting in line with what is being adopted here. If I can finally bring up two slightly further questions, it's quite right that both Rolf Rekvam, Vedum and others have been involved in this, that this merges into an international pattern. It is true that there are very few countries in the world that initially have such security for good drinking water as Norway has. In reality, almost the whole world is envying us in that area. But fighting for water is an increasingly important issue in many places, not only in the form of direct potential war, but also in the form of major social mobilization. In South America, for example: there have been so-called water wars in several cities, and it has been about exactly the question that is on the agenda here: Who is going to own the water supply? Should it be public, or should there be private water companies that can take ublu profits? In Bolivia, for example, there is talk. on the so-called water war in Cochabamba, which is one of the largest social mobilizations in the country's history, related to a question that most of us take for granted. Privatisation of something as basic as water supply belongs to what I would call Reagan-Thatcher-Extremism. Nor is it carried out with any great enthusiasm on the right-hand side here in the Stortinget. So it was a time when you thought that it was basically a good idea that there should be competition in many of the areas of life, also suitable for what Lundteigen called natural monopolies. Privatisation is not appropriate where there are natural monopolies. I see it as 100 years of debate on the relationship between state and private ownership, in essence, has clarified the two basic principles, namely that the crucial infrastructure of society, the great natural monopolies, is suitable for public ownership. It's almost always the best solution. So it's equally true that all the support functions, the many small businesses in this area, for example. repairs of installations or municipal services related thereto may be many possible ways of organising and areas suitable for competition. But I think we from Norway should be able to end what I call Reagan-Thatcher-Extremism. This type of natural monopoly, on which the whole of society, all its inhabitants, depends, is suitable for public ownership. Although a law does not fundamentally change the reality of today's Norway, it provides better protection for humanity once again into such extremism as we had in the 1980s.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1672	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1675	The proposal from the government parties explicitly states that the Norwegian water and sewerage infrastructure is to be wholly owned by the public. You have changed the concept of ‘always in the future’, but that is the case. The point here is this: in the proposal there is one specific exception. It is considered that exemptions should be granted for non-commercial private shares. However, there is no mention of what is a reality, namely that there are a number of private industrial companies that have water treatment facilities, and that is a problem in relation to this proposal. My question to the Council of State: Is it such that it is now in the starting pit, ready to launch a nationalisation programme aimed at Norwegian industrial companies that have their own water treatment plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1682	I guess the answer is no to the last one. We are not in the starting pit with any broad nationalisation programme. But what I see as the intention of the proposers, which is our intention, is just to protect life and health, for which water is so fundamental. It's the most basic thing, besides food, for human existence, and it can't be made a tomb with all sorts of stakeholders inside. A number of other questions on the edge of that, and we'll see that in a law. But broad nationalisation advances towards the entire Norwegian industry require a new government to join. But nothing is clear for eternity. It is like the Christian People's Party that is the eternal party in the Stortinget. I accept that neither this proposal nor anything else is there for eternity. It is the nature of policy that new times can bring new things.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1689	The original proposal states: ‘By ensuring that municipalities, regardless of their form of organisation, operate the VA activities autonomously, the VA sector’s right and environmental perspectives will be underlined.’ Do the Councils agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1699	I have to admit that I did not fully understand the question. It may be contrary to the operation of the Storting to ask for it to be repeated, but is it possible to get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1704	It has to be up to the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1709	The President will allow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1712	The quotation is: ‘By ensuring that municipalities, regardless of their form of organisation, operate the VA activities autonomously, the VA sector’s right and environmental perspectives will be underlined.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1720	When asked such a question, you always wonder which trap is below. Yes, initially this sounds very reasonable. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1726	Leo A. Grünfeld, together with his colleague Gjermund Grimsby, has settled the Norwegian Economy and the EU Services Directive on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. They conclude that water and sewerage services are part of the EU Services Directive. They believe that since water and sewerage are priced, it comes under the category ‘economic services of general interest’ and must be covered by the Services Directive. Their conclusion is that this would be contrary to the Services Directive and would also be contrary to current EEA legislation. What do the Councils of State think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1733	I have very, very bad to believe that this is contrary to some EU regulation. A number of EU countries will have similar arrangements. As long as it is not distorting, it is very difficult for me to see how it should in any way conflict with something like that. But that's of course of the issues we'll be looking at when we present the bill to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1738	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1743	It is a good day for the Government and the Central Party with the debate we are experiencing here, and I am quite proud that we have managed to reach such a broad consensus on this. It is not only the parties of government, but also the Christian People's Party that supports the proposal that a law on public ownership must be implemented as a matter of its own and through a change in existing law so that the bill can be finalised during this major period. The department concerned will then have a proper task ahead of it. The case concerns ownership. The case concerns the right of management. These are natural monopolies. There is public ownership or co-ownership today. I want to stay a little bit with who actually owns the water and sewer network where there is a public ownership, i.e. municipal ownership. Actually, it's the subscribers. It is the subscribers who, through their payment of water and sewerage charges, have contributed to the subsequent processing of values in a network that is modern and good. Local authorities manage this ownership on behalf of subscribers. So what we're doing now, where we equate municipal public ownership, or possibly inter-municipal ownership, with the cooperative ownership, are both these forms of ownership based on the same fact: they're the subscribers who actually own it. It is also visible in determining water and sewage charges. This is not part of local government budgets. It's a separate box for it, which clearly shows this. There is no public responsibility for water supply or sewerage. There are many who have their own private facilities, and they still do. Here we're talking about the facilities where there's a dense population, where a natural wants to go together about it. The reason why the bill was promoted was the fear that one here would have an extreme liberalisation, as referred to by the Council of State. I can say on my own behalf that the development of Vestfold Intercommunale Vannverk with its weak economy was the direct lead - a company owned by municipalities that are largely governed by the Progress Party and the Right. By clarifying the rules of the game, it will be easier for all actors. Veolia, for example, is given clear guidance on which business they can operate in Norway. It's simple, it's cheap - also for Veolia. It's unbureaucratic. We don't get any state water competition supervision. So there will be no company to share. So there will be no public private cooperation in this area, but there is a need to develop additional private connectivity networks for municipal works. They are not covered by the proposal, and the point is that monopoly power cannot be used against itself - a common ownership of the water and sewerage sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1756	This is in many ways an eye-catching case The Stortinget has to deal with today. I would argue that on two points in particular, it reveals the government parties in general, and not least the Central Party in particular in terms of their policies in this area. I'll put it a little bit on the head and say that this is about ideology. It's a government that demonstrates an ideology that in many ways is so far out on the left that it would make itself a politician like Hugo Chávez proud. This is about the boundary between public and private ownership. The rapid work in this case is underlined by the fact that no account has been taken of e.g.: industrial establishments in this proposal under consideration in Stortinget today. It has not been thought that, in reality, nationalisation of water treatment plants to some industrial establishments in Norway is currently being ordered. It shows the quick work on this matter, and how little thought it is. In addition, it exposes the parties of government when, not least, the Central Party in every context talks about the importance of local governance, that local elected representatives are allowed to rule in their own municipalities. This case shows that this is obviously not the case if a policy is not pursued in accordance with the programme of the Centre Party. I think it's regrettable, but in this case you show that you're basically not the warm defender of local democracy that you like to present yourself as in a number of other contexts. The Progress Party has a pragmatic approach to this kind of borderline approach. We actually have faith in local politicians and their judgment and proximity to their own local environments, and in their ability to make well-founded, proper, sensible decisions on behalf of their own municipality. We have faith in it. In practice, this will mean that in the vast majority of cases, water and sewerage installations will remain in public ownership. We don't want a situation where the public water and sewer system is sold over a low shoe to international actors, as it's produced by someone. It's not a problem at all. In contrast to the government parties, the Progress Party has confidence in the discretion of local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1769	I have a question for the representative Lundtegen. Now the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum has also signed up on the list of speakers, so maybe he can be helpful in answering the question. When I hear the Central Party's argument for the proposal, I perceive that it is in principle, linked to the fact that there is a natural public monopoly in the supply of something that has a strong connection to a security issue. It's kind of the whole argument, and it's a principle decision. My question to the Center Party is: When will the Center Party come with a Document No. 8 proposals to ensure public ownership of the country's electricity grid for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1778	It is quite right, as the representative of the Progress Party said, that this is about ideology. There are ideological differences between the parties. There are some things that we in the Center Party believe are so fundamental to the way a society operates, that we want it to be in public ownership, like for example. school policy. Although we have great faith in local democracy, we do not want a large-scale privatisation of Norwegian school. And in the case of e.g. Hospital: Although we initially wanted the county council to own the hospitals, we never wanted to own them privately, because we believe it is a fundamental public responsibility. The same applies to water and drains. We believe it is absolutely fundamental for a society that we can ensure our citizens a good water and sewage system. That is why we believe it should be in public ownership. In areas where we have gained experience from other countries, and where we have seen how bad private monopolies can go, it must be wise to learn from the mistakes of others and to state that we do not want a system in Norway where private operators are going to enter the owner's side and get a monopoly on something that is not competitive about. So there's an ideological difference. We want the public to take responsibility and ensure a good offer for the citizens, while the Progress Party clearly wants it to be free, and then we will see how things are going. If you go to England or you read about English states, I think you'll see that there has been no great success story.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1785	The proposal is about ideology and common sense, and it's a fairly terrestrial ideology. When the case is in progress, it is seaworthy for us to solve it, but it is also good for the citizens of Norway to find out where the various parties stand on such issues, so that you can choose more easily. The issue of industrial water and sewerage installations has been mentioned here. As I concluded in my previous post, it is on the edge of any cooperative or public network that is not covered by the proposal. The monopoly that an industrial enterprise currently has by having its own water and sewerage system is not a monopoly power that can be used against itself - it is in the case of a monopoly power that is used against others, and when you have your own network, you do not use that power against yourself. So there is no problem, and that does not include what is intended in the proposal. As regards the operation of installations, there is a similar need for review, which I expect the Council of State will address. But it is natural that the co-owner or the public municipal owner also manages it. And why? Well, because there are long-term investments that are buried in the ground, and no one is looking for them to be dug down. If that job is not done with the necessary quality and knowledge, there will be costs in the next round that could have been avoided if you had a long-term ownership. The Progress Party has mentioned here that this will break with what the Centre Party stands for in the area of local governance. No, on the contrary! As far as I know, the citizens will only have the local governing authority by allowing those who own the water and sewer systems to attend general meetings. If it is a municipal water and sewerage plant, the general meeting is the municipal council. Then you can meet up and express your opinion on how to exercise that right of governance, or you can attend the annual meeting of the cooperative water body and thereby influence the decisions taken. In the case of the mains power supply, on which the question from the right went, it is clear that it is also possible to evaluate, and that proposal and that tip are to be taken with us. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1800	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1818	Electronic ID - eID - is a good idea, and that's why today I want to focus on the really big revolution this could become within the public administration. More and more people are becoming comfortable using electronic services. Most Norwegians have access to the Internet and broadband, and most people use PCs to pay bills in banks. In other words, the Nordics are already far inside the digital world. My interpellation today is an expression of impatience. We need public institutions that are in the forefront of using and facilitating the use of modern communication tools. After former state councillor Morten Andreas Meyer launched the idea of Minside more than three years ago, it has gone a little bit. Minside is created, but it is in no way what it was going to be, or what it was going to be. Some information is available, but the page is slightly interactive. There are too few services that can be performed, there is most talk of picking up forms and checking information about itself. I have registered myself as a user on Minside, and I found some really not very exciting information that I had a car, and that I had a regular, but I found very little that I could answer, very few forms I could search and sign. This is because we lack a national eID. A renewal minister should have had greater ambitions than this, and I know that the minister has, but the pace has been lacking. The right considers that the absolute decisive step is to introduce a national eID, or a national electronic signature, if you like. The fact that forms and documents still have to be sent to the post office, and then returning them to the same department, should be history. A secure online identification is the future, and the future should be here now! It is disappointing to note that other countries have come further than Norway in this area. Or it may be more correct to say that other countries have passed Norway and come further in this area now. In Denmark, e-signatures have been introduced, and when accessing their websites, it turns out that more than 170 establishments, businesses and non-governmental organisations are connected and allow citizens of Denmark to provide services using e-signatures. So what's an e-signature? The Danes have the following explanation:«The digital signature is your personal signature on the Internet. You can, among other things: use the signature to fix the self-declaration, sign in to the e-box [[...]] And the Danes also have answers to why e-signature should be used: «Digital signature ensures digital communication between citizens, businesses and authorities. It offers a number of advantages: Citizens One has the opportunity to communicate safely with the public 24 hours a day, get faster answers and get a better overview of information with the digital signature - one code is enough for many public electronic services. In addition, one can skip the time-consuming practicalities that are in the process of writing and sending a physical letter with envelopes and stamps. Authorities For the authorities, secure digital communications can lead to savings and fewer errors. What has been saved in one area can be used on another, for example. in the form of better service. Companies For companies that trade via the Internet, the digital signature can guarantee that no fake orders can be made’ – i.e. incorrect orders or fake orders – ‘of goods’. This is quotes from the Danish website. Once the Danes have put such a system in place, I cannot believe that we in Norway are still waiting for a solution to be put in place. One of the critical elements for the introduction of e-signature is security. In Denmark, it is the Danish Data Protection Authority that benefits from security. They point out that there are in particular three values to be respected by an e-signature: Authenticity, which means that the recipient of a message has security of origin from the person who sent it. Integrity, which means that it is not possible to change the message en route from sender to recipient. Confidentiality, which means that no unauthorised person can come to know the content of the message. In Denmark, the authorities made the requirements for the e-signature, sent them out for tenders, a tender that TDC won, and TDC appears to provide a service with which users and the public are satisfied. The benefits of an eID are many. I expect the Council of State to have answers to the savings that widespread use of this will bring to society. Billions of money have been mentioned in terms of savings, not only for the individual population, but also for the public sectors, which release a lot of paperwork, which escapes operation in barriers, and which escapes operation at the central desk and telephone. These are savings that can be allocated to other and more priority public tasks. In the 2008 budget, the Ministry states that a strategy for electronic ID and signature in the public sector will be presented in the autumn of 2007. The main track is to produce a national ID card to be used as an eID. Today I register that the department has published two press releases on eID-related themes on its websites. This suggests that it helps to focus on the matter through this interpellation. I expect the Council of State to consider the latest developments in the matter in its response to me. The answer is given on the department's websites and in the evening post today, but I later did not see it, and meet the Council of State's response. In Norway, we know that banks, Posten and Norwegian Typing have solutions for electronic transactions that have a lot of users. I expect the state now to go from word to action and publish tenders on a national eID. I also hope that the Council of State is not set to reinvent the powder, i.e. the development by the State of a solution from the very bottom of a national eID, rather than based on the different standards and practical solutions available today, and based on them. I also hope that the Council of State will now speed up this work, so that the Ministry can show that they can at least in one area live up to their name - the Ministry of Renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1885	Let me first start by thanking the representative of Greece for an interview on something that at least I and the interpellant seem to be an important topic, and I hope that more people will get involved in the debate, so that we also meet my goal with St.meld. No 17 for 2006-2007, to get more policy debates on IT policy. We need that. I am very grateful for Greece's interpellation in that way. In recent years we have had an important emergence of public services over the Internet. For example, a number of the inhabitants deliver the self-message electronically. It is a great advantage, both for themselves and not least for the powers of government. The population fails to stick to opening hours, and the public sector saves labour that would otherwise have been used for the manual handling of applications. This labour force can rather be used, for example: to commit tax crime. The Loan Box’s services are mainly available via the Internet. Most of them are also available via Miside. So through Miside, which is also the representative of Greece, we have a common access portal to public services on the Internet, and thus a common identification solution to public services. Because the services on Miside have a common public eID at medium level per. today. The question of how the public sector should solve the eID problem is not simple, and it has not been easy. Many countries have worked on different approaches to this and have different experiences. There is no solution that matches everyone. Someone well to bet on the market, others build public solutions. Several countries are investing in both. State administration, municipal administration and users of public services will have to live with the long-term consequences of a strategy choice in this area for many years, perhaps for decades to come. So we need a robust strategy. The challenges of a common eID solution for use in electronic communications in the public sector are many. There are several interests that need to be looked after, while at the same time taking care of some fundamental concerns. The solution we're going to bet on must be something else. ensure that all receive equal access to electronic services from the public domain privacy considerations are technologically entitled to have a resilient business model that provides a reasonable cost to the public and users with a low threshold for public services to help maintain competition for eID solutions in the market; There have been different approaches to the supply of indigenous peoples with their own eIDs, among others. through unilateral use of market solutions. These didn't meet expectations, but we got a lot of experience that we're building on now. We learned, among other things. the importance of public governance and supervision of eID solutions, and the long-term and robustness of business models underlying the use of eID. On the basis of these experiences, we have developed a proposal for a new eID strategy in the public domain. It was widely heard in 2007. We got a lot of answers, both from public authorities and from market actors. 80 pst. supported the proposal, but there were some objections, mainly from market players. When the representative of Greece says that we have spent time, I would like to remind you that this year I took the time to be faithful to a model that the previous minister put on the table, but that proved not to be feasible in practice. At least let me say that. The government has, in the context of my hearing, discussed the proposal for a new strategy for electronic ID and e-signature for use in the public sector. First of all, we use an overarching recommendation for eID and eSignature in the public sector, in the form of a public framework. This is important. On the one hand, the framework shall describe four levels of risk with four corresponding levels of safety. It shall help the activities of their own security assessments and link the security assessments to the acquisition of the eID solution. Secondly, we establish a common public infrastructure for identification. It shall be capable of using all public works for its electronic services, whether it be municipality, county or state. This is about giving users an equal solution, regardless of whether to deliver a self-message, search for children's playground, or figure out how much the loan in the Loan Box is. That's how we clean up the PIN code chaos. As the representative of Helleland was in, it's 20 million. kr in my budget for 2008, to which the Stortinget has joined. A large part of that sum shall be used to establish such a public infrastructure, also called an interconnection hub. This new hub will build on the experience of technology and solutions that have been used in the Miside and Altin service portals. These two measures will help to ensure that different activities in the public sector use eID and, in addition, we will implement additional two measures to help us obtain a range of electronic IDs to be used against the interoperability hub. Firstly, in order to simplify their use of public services online in the short term and to ensure that the development of new services does not stop, a common public eID is necessary for citizens at a medium-sized level, i.e. what we call level 3. We already have that solution through the adhoc solution we had to introduce after we closed the Security Portal. We improve this for the current year by allowing us now to get PIN code sent on mobile, but we ask the Skatetaten to further develop it, so that it will be a good, effective solution at level 3. She will also, of course, support the need of many public enterprises to offer an eID to their electronic services. And the solution, as I said, is already available through the Miside and Altin portals. Secondly, we believe that a common public issuer eID for citizens at the highest level of security, i.e. level 4, will be seen in conjunction with the Government's plans for issuing a national ID card, etc. from a socio-economic perspective. eID at a high level of security is required, including: for access to health information, signing of information and self-denomination of NAV services. But the vast majority of currently available services have a high level of security of Level 3. The establishment of a public issuer eID on national ID cards may also create a necessary market correction for dominant suppliers in the market. After discussions in the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice will now be working on the creation of a bill on a national ID card in Norway. The Ministry of Justice is expected to present the bill on matters before the end of the year. As I was into it, many people already have an eID at a high level of security, i.e. level 4, that they've got on the market. It is therefore necessary that this interconnection hub, which we are now developing, facilitate a technical interaction between market players. The costs of using eID in the market in their own services must be borne by each unit, as per. Today, but we're taking the cost of developing the interconnection hub. The representative of Greece believes that it must be good to use solutions in the market. Yes, we are in fact some of them, and there's nothing to stop public works from doing that, that's what they've done, and that's what they'll continue to do, if they follow the rules when it comes to public procurement. The solutions must also meet the security requirements that are proportionate to the public standard and from which eID providers must deliver. If they do not meet these requirements, it does not help to have enough customers on the market or a large number of them; it is primarily a requirement for security and for the technological solution in the interoperability hub that these solutions must meet. So the government has chosen a strategy where we have to implement more things. We publish a framework to help public enterprises in their security assessments with subsequent eID investment. We're developing a common public infrastructure for identification, that's the interoperability hub. We're further developing the level 3 public eID that we already have, and we're seeing the development of a level 4 public eID, while still making use of current market solutions. In this way, we can easily make sure that most of the possible public services can use some type of common eID. It's actually the development of the hub that's the most important foundation of the public strategy -- while giving users a choice between a public eID solution and market solutions. The market can of course help to provide good solutions that can be used if they meet the security requirements of the eID at the highest level. At the same time, it does not prevent us from further working on a public option, which will give users even more choices. Moreover, it will be an important market correction. I'm busy not getting into a monopolistic situation with one single provider of eID. I don't think that will lead to cork innovation or further development, which we are totally dependent on as we receive advanced services, and then primarily in health and NAV, which are the two big ones where one sees that one in time gets many good electronic services that will require level 4. If we are to have good eID solutions on that, we must have an innovation and an innovation in the market. It gets one by means of competition, not by means of a monopoly situation. I also hope that the representative of Greece agrees with me. We do this to ensure that Norwegian citizens identify in a safe and easy way to public enterprises, so that we can use electronic services in the future to an even greater extent than today. I am pleased that the representative of Greece also supports this ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1951	I thank you for your answer. I am glad that on the same day that the interpellation was issued, something actually happened in the case, namely that a press release was sent out that the Council of State should clean up the PIN code chaos, and that a slightly more advanced case, namely ‘the framework for authentication and inconsistency in electronic communications with and in the public sector. Guidelines for public enterprises have also been laid out. I can see that this is a step in the right direction. In particular, I'm glad that the Council of State now chooses - as I see it at least, but she can confirm that if she does - a technology-neutral solution, i.e. a platform, a hub, which it was about, to be used by more people. It's positive, and it's important. But first of all, as I see it, security level 3, and then it's security level 4, which is kind of the goal you should achieve as soon as possible. There is the national ID card, possibly solutions in the private market, that meet the requirements to meet it. After going into the Danish website and looking at their portal, I see it as a very user-friendly portal and a portal that gives citizens a very good introduction into what this is about, what it can be used for, why it is important, etc., while I think Minside is currently quite difficult to access. First, you have to register to get into it - you probably have to in Denmark too - and you have to have codes from the tax code. You get a one-time text message, and it's a progress, but it's a rather heavy process, and I perceive that -- I kept saying -- sighing to register on Minside is pretty small. Can the Council of State say anything about how many people have actually registered, how many users there are, and what will the Council of State and the Government do to spread the use? Driving active information about what this is about, I think, is important, because, as the Council of State says, there is too little public debate about just the type of user-friendly solutions that the public can also save large sums of money. The Council of State itself pointed out the great savings made in the tax bill, which could then be transferred to other work, namely, to - I was saying - levy more taxes by taking tax fraudsters and others. The same estimates must, of course, be available for other public activities. Some calculations have been made as to the amount of funds that can be released into e.g.: the health and school sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1964	Let me start by correcting something that must have been a misunderstanding. When the representative of Greece believes that the interoperability hub is primarily level 3, it is wrong. The Interoperability hub shall handle both the Level 3 and Level 4 solutions. We already have the Level 3 solutions. They're connected to both Altinn and Miside. The login solution is set to collect. But the interoperability hub should be the public infrastructure -- if you have a type of bypass, you should be able to use level four solution. If you need to run a Level 4 service on a different level as well, you should be able to use the only solution you already have to log in on a different level. It's the technical infrastructure that's going to make you be identified against the second floor as well, and that's what we're going to do. Let me also remind you that the vast majority of services that are there per year. Today, primarily are services where one needs level 3. The tax base of its services, e.g., it is, and the Loan Box has only one service where level 4 is needed, and that is when to sign the debt note. We must not talk as if we believe that today we have neither eID nor public services that are advanced, because we do. When it comes to the question of using Miside, the answer is that the most important thing is to get the etats to develop more services that are electronic. There I have a good dialogue with the state budgets, and I also have a good dialogue with KS. What we know is that there might be so many people up to 200 municipalities that today don't have services of such a quality that they can go out on Miside. It says something about competence, and it says something about the out-of-town economy when it comes to prioritising it. That's the job we do both by strengthening the local economy and by encouraging inter-municipal cooperation, because this is an area where it's very good to have inter-municipal cooperation. It's mainly the municipal services we use, which the inhabitants experience as relevant. If you're unemployed, you're using Aetat a little more often, but I, who's an active person, will rarely need to go into the Loan Box or other states. It is when I am going to deliver my own message that I have that need. The provision of more services is what will stimulate both use and, not least, demand. Then what I'm saying is that we already have the market players today who can agree well with the state budgets. Then the public ID solution will come as an alternative, but not as an imposition. I think that would give us a wealth of access to different IDs, which are, as a matter of fact, spin-offs with innovation and development. We probably have some numbers that say what you can save, but I'm, like the representative of Greece, busy saying that saved heads and ears aren't necessarily released heads and ears. There are many other things you can use freed labour for, for example. raising the level of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e1977	Honner to the interpellant who has taken up an important theme. It's not quite easily accessible to most, I think, but equally very important. There is still a great need for the modernisation of the public sector in Norway, a major unsolved task that several previous governments have to take responsibility for doing so too little. On the part of the Progress Party, we believe that this field, as in some other areas of the necessary modernisation of the public sector, is relatively small. In this area, I think I'm going to give the Council of State as politeness as saying it's a formidable task and not simply. But we still have the feeling that things are going too small. One important question is why I'm going to use and necessarily need more than one card. I have a card, my bank card, which is well cleared at security level 4. I can't just understand for my life that I'm going to be charged or barred with another public card to retrieve my personal information on the public network. There is a bit of discussion: are more cards needed than what is already available in the private sector? I have noticed, and I noticed that during the budget consultation of the Transport Committee in the context of the 2008 budget, where there were some implications for this, that the industry itself strongly recommends the Government and the Government to use the BankID solution. There has even been an investigation, which was referred to: almost 50 pst. by the IT industry itself recommends using the available BankID solution, and only a quarter recommends that the State develop a new, own solution. What is important in order to achieve this saving both for the public sector and, above all, for the use of the public sector by its inhabitants, is that there is an accessible and simple solution that many people are using. There is also a point in the recordings that come from the IT industry itself, when they are as strong as they are, recommend using what is available and used in the public sector, that it is comprehensive and still increasing. For practical reasons, more and more people need to make use of bank cards, and more and more do so. Then you relate to a personal card that you simply have to use in many of the daily tasks. The chances of further increasing use and making it easy for those entering the public sector through their own electronic signature will be increased if the same card is used. Then there are also views from those who work and struggle with this in other countries than ours, including the United States. the view that developing a government card, a state electronic signature, can be a risky, long-term and quite costly project. I have noticed that, among other things. has referred to Finland, which has opted unilaterally to bet on state electronic signatures, and where no special scope has been achieved. I have also noticed signals from the United Kingdom that indicate that there are dramatic costs associated with this. There are thus available systems in the private sector which, in the view of the Progress Party, could be used well. So finally, the Council of State began by saying that she was happy to have a debate on IT issues, and I agree with that. It is important that we have a debate on this in Stortinget. We had St.meld. No 17 for 2006-2007. There was a broad consensus on that. The issue we're discussing here also has another side, the privacy page. There we have too little debate in the opinion of the Progress Party. That's what we tried to do yesterday. We have promoted a proposal for a representative, where we want to discuss the Data Storage Directive, and we want to give some leadership to the Government that there are no changes in privacy and data storage until Stortinget has said it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2000	First, I want to commend the interpellant for addressing an important matter. This interpellation has clearly led the Council of State to speed things up, cf. The evening post today. Electronic ID is an exciting concept that can help simplify and red tape the contact between the public, individual citizens and enterprises. Electronic ID or signature allows individuals to sign documents, declarations, applications, etc. electronic. In other words, both public and individual can save time and strength with electronic ID. The issue of the left in this matter is essentially that we want such an arrangement. We are also concerned that such an electronic ID system must be safe and secure, which was also covered by the Vardevik, so that both the sender and the recipient should have confidence that information sent with an electronic ID will not get lost and will not be misused. As we have heard before, the Danes have come a long way in this area. Whether the best way to move forward in this work is to do it publicly, by obtaining services from the private sector or through private-public cooperation is less important. What's important is to put in place a well-functioning system quickly. The left notes that Denmark has come a long way by collecting knowledge and services from private providers. We believe it is natural for the Norwegian Government to consider the same thing. The left will therefore challenge the Minister of Renewal whether or not the procedure in Denmark has actually been thoroughly implemented in this area, and it would be interesting to hear the Minister of Renewal’s assessment of this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2013	There has been an effective debate, in line with the interpellation, that it is about doing things efficiently and quickly. You could do it online, so we could almost take the debate there. But I am pleased with the articles that have come. I think it shows one thing: that discussing this from a technical perspective is quite hopeless. Nor is it the job we in Stortinget are going to take on. We need to focus on user-friendliness, on enabling citizens to have a simple everyday life, an effective public administration, and a secure system of privacy considerations. I can see that there is a broad consensus on that. What I could imagine challenging the Council of State at the last round is going on some of the questions I had in my first post, which is what the Council of State will contribute to creating greater enthusiasm and understanding for the benefit of this amazing tool that an eID will be. Whether there should be a card that you can use for everything, or whether there should be different PIN code machines, or what it should be, I don't think it's that interesting. The main thing must be that one should be able to use the same system to perform a range of services. I see that in Denmark all municipalities are within the system, all counties are inside, some banks are connected to the same thing, and all state agencies and a number of non-governmental organisations are within the national eID that one has in Denmark. The question then arises: when the Council of State says that it is important that the agencies are able to do more online, or open up for greater use of online solutions, what incentives do the agencies have to do so? They are told that if they can save 50 million. When people go over to using electronic solutions, they're going to be left with the 50 million. kr in the establishment, or that they can be used on other things within the same area that can be more useful? Or is it that there is no pressure from the Council of State in the individual levels that these are useful and necessary solutions? It will vary from one department to another, how big, I kept saying, the enthusiasm is to get this done. The tax rate has been a good example of an establishment that has really seized the opportunity desirable. And this is coming too far. It's just to think a few years back when we still had checkbooks, when we paid all our bank giroes by going to the bank or sending letters. Now we're doing everything over the net, and there's not many, I was saying, regular bank clients again that shouldn't go in either to sort out a loan request or other slightly larger transactions. So here's a great opportunity for us to go forward. I hope the Council of State arrests it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2022	I want to, with which I also started my main post, also rose the interpellant, but I want to say that it has now been a little bit off the interpellant as well. Among other things, it was 20 million. kr, which was allowed in this year's budget, just allowed to start work on this interoperability hub, which is the most important way to remove the PIN code chaos. It is not the only ID that removes it, but such an interoperable one manages to have one, so do not get many more. So I'm going to tell the representative Blackevik that I don't think we're going to start referring to a single ID because the bank ID is enough. After all, it is not certain that the industry meant exactly the bank ID, because there are four different suppliers that have nine different eID solutions at level 4. I'm not sure if the industry meant that we should go for a private monopoly, as little as the industry wanted a public monopoly. I'm sure that they referred to bank ID as one of several and to exploit the market, as we are actually doing, as well as creating a public ID that will complement the market over time, but that would then be voluntary. Then to the Danish system. I don't know if I'm going to use the rest of the interpellation on it, but it's almost made as if the Danish solution is a private solution. But the Danish solution, as far as I know it, is not to use the Danish bank ID solution as it stands today. They've created a company to create a whole new, private solution, but with which the public has control. So the Danish have chosen to keep public control, but to buy a product in the private market. But the challenge is that you choose a monopoly, and that next time you have an offer, you have one offer, because others don't get the incentive to be with and develop an ID. The solution that we have chosen is to use all the providers, to give them a level playing field, and we believe that it will in itself be with and innovate, and to stimulate the I.D. suppliers to develop their solutions. But of course we look at Denmark and follow what the Danish do - it should just be missing. We have good contact with the Nordic countries, because we are very similar, and if you look at the IT statistics, the Nordic countries are quite alike both when it comes to use and to what kind of challenges we have. So to the interpellant, who's asking me how we're going to make a better understanding of eID. My answer, which I was in my previous post, is that eID is not that interesting; the interesting thing is the services. And the services must be there, and they must be relevant to the audience, otherwise no one will ask for an eID. I have an e-government coordinating body where I meet the state leaders and discuss this several times a year, I have my own meeting with selected agencies that I think have interesting services, and I challenge them to give me the time they provide. The main gain is that they themselves receive a more effective budget, and in their case they retained the large part of the efficiency gain. But it could be different, a little dependent on normal budgetary practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2033	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2046	In St. prp. No 39 The Government proposes to correct the mistakes made over a larger number, probably about 50,000, former state workers who have either not received a pension from the State Pension Fund or who have received too little pension. As rapporteur of the case, I am very pleased that the Government has made such a liberal arrangement that everyone directly affected will receive full compensation, including interest from the non-payments, and that this will also include those who have not yet been registered with pension entitlements. It is important that information is now provided so well that absolutely everyone gets what they are entitled to. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that joins the Government's proposal that the state should cover approximately 234 million. NOK in post-payment of the pension and payment of the interest. This is 84 million. kr more than the Statens Pensionkasse has agreed to, and I expect the Statens Pensionkasse to give priority to the work on these settlements. In this case, it has been found that the State pension fund and a number of government employers have not had good enough procedures to secure their employees the pension rights they are entitled to. This is serious, and it is worrying that it has taken so long before the errors have been discovered. I believe that there is reason to complain about the many people who have been affected. I hope that the way in which the matter is now resolved is seen as fully satisfactory. I also want to praise the media who have helped to detect these errors. When such serious errors are identified, it is necessary to identify the causes and put in place measures to ensure that the corresponding cannot happen again. It is up to both the government and the magnificence to ensure that this happens. In such a large and special case as this, I think it's natural that this House of Representatives is the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that takes care of the further investigations. The Municipal and Management Committee has become aware that the Control Committee has taken the initiative to follow up this part of the case. The parties to the Government have therefore been satisfied to refer to this initiative in this setting. I have no doubt that the Council of State will take great care to follow up the work of the State pension fund to ensure that such errors cannot be repeated. I feel sure that the other state councils responsible for state businesses will ensure that all employees receive the pension they are entitled to, and that the mistakes we have seen here, and new mistakes are corrected as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2059	At the beginning of January 2007, I asked a written question to the Council of State, based on a look-up at Lagendalsposten at the time that at least 100 former employees at Kongsberg Armed Factory had missed significant amounts of pension from the State pension fund. I would therefore like to make a few comments on the matter already today, even if it is to be dealt with in a separate way by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Age pension, disability pension and survivors’ pension belong to the rootstock of the Norwegian welfare system. In addition to pensions from social security, many workers, both in the public and private sectors, have earned additional rights in different occupational pension schemes. As an overall committee today expresses, it is a great responsibility to manage the pension rights of the population, whether they are earned in the social security system or, as here, in a working relationship. The state labourer's case clearly shows that this responsibility has not been properly discharged, and it is particularly worrying that the routines fail where the state is both an employer and a manager of people's rights and paid-up funds. What's positive in the matter is that the Council of State has now gone badly in order to clean up old sins and prevent new ones. In particular, it is positive that the Council of State in this particular case opens up that one does not comply with rigid rules on limitation, but deals with the afterpayment in a liberal way. We don't know the full extent for the moment. The proposal for appropriations here today is based on estimates based on the issues under consideration, but many remain. New information also shows that the level of mispayments is growing quite significantly, and that it is also about matters of more recent dates than the state workers’ cases. What is then worrying about the matter is that the recording and payment procedures have been as bad as they have obviously been. In addition, the Lageendals post has described one specific case in which a retired person, on the basis of new knowledge of his own rights, did not return to the State pension fund for a very long time to see if he had rights as a former civil servant. The answer was negative-- no, you don't have any rights, but that answer was wrong. Even when people came to take an extra check, they got the wrong information. For some of the oldest, earliest cases, there must also have been a requirement in the plan that the employee himself kept an inventory of his own earnings. Whether such information was provided, received or understood can hardly be documented. I imagine a 14-year-old who starts as a showboy at the old Kongsberg gun factory and is going to keep this order. It goes without saying that it can hardly go well. Regardless of whether the claim was there, this was a completely unreasonable claim, and for my own part I have never heard of anything similar, either in public schemes or in private insurance. Responsibility must lie with the person administering the funds and that responsibility has not been properly discharged. So to what's so sad about the whole thing. It is that much of the wrong that has been committed is not being remedied, for some of those who have not received the pension have already passed away. For those who have been retired over a period of time, and perhaps quite a long time even, the economy as a pensioner has been worse than it should have been. The more important it is, in my opinion, that the Council of State is doing what she can to remedy what is possible to remedy, and not least to prevent new mistakes. I feel confident that the Council of State will do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2072	The central government pension fund has discovered that the additional 2,900 pensioners have been paid too little in retirement. Reasons are root and lack of control procedures within the State pension fund. The committee was visiting the State pension fund a short time ago, and I have to say at least for my part that I put it back with the impression, after receiving that information, that they had quite a good overview of the stand. I'm a little surprised when this comes up, and I also want to refer to a reporter where it's been revealed that the State pension fund has had knowledge for at least three years that state workers have not got what they needed. I will then be in agreement with what has been said by those who have spoken before here, and I perceive it so that the Committee of Inquiry and the National Audit Office will now address this matter. Therefore, there is no reason to say anything other than that I expect and take it for granted that it is now being cleared up in these cases, so that those who are entitled to a pension are given a reasonable amount of what they have a legitimate right to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2081	This is a serious matter on which the other representatives have also been involved. In Norway, where a traditional system has been very confident that the system is correct and that the answers given by the system are correct, it turns out that this is not always the case. There is also something we have to take over, that sometimes, among all the enquiries we get, all the e-mails sent to us by individuals who claim to be unfairly treated, and who initially get the answer that this is not the case, are actually cases where the answers are not correct, and that it happens wrong, that there are people who do not get what they are legally entitled to. That is why in this case there is reason to commend those who have stood on, and to praise the media who have also helped to reveal these conditions. There are large amounts of money involved, and then I am not thinking about the government paying out, but for those who should have had the money. Many of those covered by this have not had a large pension. This had been money that would have been good to have at the time when the money should have come. The Right has now raised a case on this in the Control and Constitutional Committee, and sent a letter to the Department on the matter, and expects that there will be a review and an answer to this question. But there is reason to ask questions about whether there is a need to ask external consultants or others to go through and double-check the work done in the State Pension Fund. There is reason to get a case in terms of how the State Pension Fund is organised today, what control mechanisms are there, and not least an assessment of whether this can be improved - and suggestions for improvements - so that these errors do not happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2090	As many people have had, a number of former state workers have either not received a pension or have received too little pension. The reasons for this are composite and mostly historical. These are little-needed routines related to the recording of service hours as government workers. All pensions are currently registered in the State Pension Fund at the time of retirement, but this was not the scheme for state workers. The government and I want to clean up the pension situation for the state workers, and are happy to join an increase of 84 million. kr for the current year’s budget. The former state employee pension scheme was based on a system of own liability for pension requirements. National workers, etc. road and power plants were registered for their working periods in a workbook. The workbook would document the right to a pension in the future. At the same time, it was suggested in the preliminary work of the laws that the employer also had an obligation to keep an overview of the service time of the state worker. These principles for the registration of public employment services were maintained even after the scheme was incorporated into the State Pension Fund Act in 1974. The system was maintained until 1 January 1982. In addition, government workers who had been in the post in addition to 1 January 1982 were to present earlier service hours in workbooks in the case of retirement. When it comes to the government workers of the military, they didn't have the workbooks. In other words, the employer had full responsibility for registering their service time. The three military enterprises changed pension schemes in 1973, and the state workers were transferred to private insurance companies. In connection with their change of pension scheme, the military companies sent lists to the State Pension Fund in the mid-1970s. The lists gave an overview of the state labour service for those who were then added and for those who had previously left. The lists were not registered in the member register in SPK. There was an arrangement in which the military companies gave a message to the SPK when a state worker went over to retirement, and so the SPK caught up with people who were in these businesses until retirement. I think it's reasonable that government workers from the military companies will be given the right to a full refund until 1973, when a different pension scheme. The problems arose at this time, because the relationship between the state workers and the State Pension Fund was weaker. For civil laborers, the situation was slightly different: this group of government workers had workbooks. In 1982, central electronic registration of pension rights was established in the State Pension Fund. This includes all members of the State Pension Fund. It also applied to state workers, for service time since 1982. Eventually, work started to record older service hours in the database, and it was useful to start by registering pension rights that were systematically documented in the paper-based member register in the SPK. In the mid-1990s, the SPK took the initiative to collect information from a number of major enterprises, and several companies also send lists of people with former government labour services to the SPK. But many of these lists were incomplete. The work on completing the information contained in the electronic membership register was closely followed up. The reasons included: a difficult resource situation in the State Pension Fund in the 1980s and that work was very extensive. In many cases, there is a lack of e.g. birth number. It is therefore natural that state workers in civil enterprises are granted the right to a post-pension pension back to 1 January 1982. It is from the time when information on the state worker service should have been included in the electronic membership register at the earliest. I would like to remind you that it is stated in the landfill proposal that the individual employer also had a responsibility to keep an overview of the service time of the state worker. Routines related to the registration of government labour services in state enterprises have not been good enough. At the same time, the state worker himself had a responsibility to raise his pension claim. However, in my view, it is not necessary to go into the division of responsibilities between the individual state employers and the State Pension Fund, when both were, and are, part of the state. The focus now needs to be on getting a satisfactory system for state workers, in order to correct previous cases. Government workers are special. All pensions are currently registered in the State Pension Fund in connection with the ignition itself, as opposed to such a scheme for government workers who did not have a corresponding registration of pension rights. I would also like to stress that most former state workers have actually received the pension they were entitled to, and at the right time. But my goal and the government's goal is now to clean up in a satisfactory way for those who didn't get it -- the group that hasn't yet received the pension they have lit up. There is a work going on in the State Pension Fund to clean up matters related to the state workers, and we have made a thorough assessment of the various circumstances in the case of the landfill that we are dealing with today. It is expected that the pension fund will be completed with the handling of matters related to government workers with independent pension rights in the SPC and matters related to spouse pension before the end of this year. Treatment of matters related to heirs other than surviving spouses and of government workers with less than three years of membership of the State Pension Fund will start as soon as possible, and late in 2009. In recent years, the National Pension Fund has focused to a large extent on quality, especially in relation to pension payments. However, I would like to mention in particular - and it is also clear from the first letter that we have sent to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee - that there is still some quality assurance attached to the pension fund's membership database. The status of this work is that the Pension Fund has quality membership data for almost 500,000 members. This is data related to the active members of the Pension Fund, which is now mainly completed in quality assurance. What remains is quality assurance for something more than 200,000 members. These are mainly members with set dishes, born after 1947. Before the end of the work, one cannot ignore the fact that, in the future, there may also be specific issues related to member history and pension payments for some members or groups of members of the SPK. The correct membership data is decisive for the correct payment of the pension. In connection with this, I would like to mention that the Department received information from the State Pension Fund on Tuesday of this week that special groups of members have not received the pension they are entitled to receive have been found in the quality assurance work on pension rights. This applies to members who are required to set up a disability pension and to set up a retirement pension. Preliminary, uncertain estimates from the SPK over the scope of the case suggest that under 3,000 members with such pension rights can be entitled to a pension from the State Pension Fund. When I say "set-up", it means that people have had a job in the state, but have changed to other settings, so that they have not worked in the state when they have been either pensioners or non-pensioners. Of course, as soon as advice is given, I will return to the Stortinget with all relevant information on the matter, including the budgetary implications. What I am telling you today is inconclusive on the basis of an oral orientation that I received on Tuesday. The State Pension Fund has today sent me a written statement on the matter, which I will use to prepare a written statement to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. The State Pension Fund aims to start its pension scheme for all the 3,000 members with defined pension rights and, if necessary, to provide advice as soon as possible. All of these will now receive a letter from the State Pension Fund with information and a request for information, so that calculation and payment can be made. Of course, this work is given highest priority. I would like to stress, however, that there is a significant difference between government workers and members with set rights. National workers' pension rights were not registered before, and the registration has been a major work. Members with defined pension rights are registered members in the database of the Staten Pensionkasse, and according to the Staten Pensionkasse itself, most also have received information from the SPK about their right to a pension. Future pensioners have been asked to submit the necessary information for starting a pension. In most cases related to the age pension scheme, the SPK has not received that type of relevant information. Of course, when setting up a disability pension, it is necessary for the member to notify the SPK of the disease. Furthermore, I can see that the State Pension Fund has put in place a holistic system of internal control and risk assessment. Control procedures relating to the quality of pension payments are part of this system. I will follow up the treatment of the state workers in the State Pension Fund and help them to be treated as quickly as possible. Of course, we will also continue to work with the Pension Fund on the issue of quality assurance work and internal control procedures in the administration of the enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2131	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2134	I would like to thank the Council of State for the information, even if it is serious. There are now new detections of errors that have been made, involving nearly 3,000 people. And then there is still control over more than 200,000, so it is not certain that this is the end of the detection of errors. In my post I took up two relationships. One was whether the Council of State would consider using also the external review and quality assurance of the State Pension Fund and the work done to ensure that no mistakes are made in the new review. The second question, and perhaps most importantly, is that if you look at the organisation of the State Pension Fund, most -- I think -- will see that the established control mechanisms may not be strong enough. Will the State Council come to Stortinget with its own case about the organisation of the State Pension Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2141	Let me now say that I have just received an oral orientation, and a written one is on my table when I get back up today. How, of course, we're going to go through -- maybe we need to ask follow-up questions, but I've informed the Control and Constitutional Committee that they're going to get a written statement from my side as soon as I can. Then it will be up to the Control and Constitutional Committee to discuss it further. However, it is clear that both the state labour force and this new one make me consider, of course, whether the control procedures and the state pension fund administration are good enough. But it's too early to say anything about it. On the contrary, I would like to point out that when you find and find these new examples, it is because you have increased quality control. One is now running additional controls and is going through its membership registry. Thus, one of these cases is found - unfortunately. And as the representative Höie says, it's very serious. The problem is that one in the past has not had the same good control over its members' directors, and that is what comes out of the closet today, and that is obviously very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-04-03.ana.ud221e2148	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. [[Fotation, see page 2696]] The evening meeting will be set at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
