ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e59	There are three permit applications: from the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes on leave from 27 November to 2 December; and from the representatives of Per Olaf Lundtigen and Ågot Valle on leave from 28 November to 3 December; all to participate in the Norwegian delegation to the International Conference on Financing for Development in Doha, Quatar. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the County of Buskerud: Hilde GroenhovdFor the county of Hordaland: Audun Bjørlo LysbakkenFor the county of Rogaland: Siri A. MelingSiri A. Meling will be elected to Laginget for the time she meets the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e95	Siri A. Meling is present and will take his seat. The representative of the Svein Fleet will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e100	On behalf of the representatives of Torbjørn Hansen, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and myself, I am delighted to propose to strengthen the equity of maritime companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e105	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 7 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e185	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be held over one day, with a total speaking time of 6 hours and 5 minutes, excluding lines and three-minute posts. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 130 minutes, Progress Party 80 minutes, Right 50 minutes, Socialist Left Party 30 minutes and Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 25 minutes each. It is proposed that there should be five lines in reply to the speeches by the main speakers of the political groups, the parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three lines in response to speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more, as well as the speeches by other government councils within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e196	Today, the size of the budget deals with a budget proposal with a strong commitment to the community. Many important areas will be strengthened. In particular, I would like to take the opportunity to increase the number of admissions to hospitals, measures to combat poverty, greater commitment to well-being in municipalities and higher investment in road and rail. In addition, emphasis is placed on environmental considerations and on priorities for development and assistance. On the income side of the budget, we make changes within an unchanged tax level that has a very good distribution profile. The budgetary proposal from the Government is expansive. It is committed to spending $92 billion on oil and gas revenues, which corresponds to the real return of the State pension fund — Foreign. The use of oil money is a result of a balance between the importance of stimulating the economy and the importance of interest rates and the price of crowns. Already when the budget was being prepared, it was clear that banks and other financial institutions in many countries had major problems. We also had reason to believe that the turmoil in the financial markets would impact on the real economy. In the last year, it has become increasingly clear that international growth would be significantly lower than it has been in recent years. Most realized that it would have an impact on the Norwegian economy. The budgetary proposal from the Government reflects this. For this reason, strong investment and construction investment, including construction, has been proposed. in the case of pedestals, advanced schools, universities and higher education institutions and transport. This will help to keep activity and employment up. Following the presentation of the budget, the international liquidity crisis has spread to Norwegian banks. It has an impact on their ability to get funding. At the same time, it has become clear that the decline in the world economy is becoming more severe than we expect in the past. This means that demand for Norwegian goods and services is decreasing. It is still uncertain what further development will be like, both outdoors and at home. We probably don't know how deep and how long the recession will be. In such turbulent and uncertain waters it is difficult to navigate. If we have the wrong course or the wrong pace, we are at risk of strengthening the problems. At the same time, it is important that we are manageable, and that we intend to put in place the right actions in a timely manner. After the budget was presented on 7 October, the Government followed up with a series of targeted measures. The size has focused on effective action, so that action can be taken quickly. Both trade union and corporate leaders have pointed out that the main problem is that banks are too reluctant to lend money. It's not the payroll in the business community that makes the activity stop, and it's sent out permitting notices. Enterprises need liquidity to finance their business and to be able to make new investments. Lower interest rates will increase the lender of the banks. In addition, this will lead to increased investment. Actions put in place or notified are directly addressed to this challenge: The size has authorised the Government to borrow sovereign debt with certainty in covered bonds within a total framework of DKK 350 billion. The first allocation, at NOK 10 billion, happened last Monday. The aim of the measure is to improve access to finance for Norwegian banks in the international market so that they can increase their lending in Norway. The government is going in to increase the capital of the Municipal Bank. This will enable the bank to increase its lending to municipalities by DKK 15 to 20 billion. In this way, it is much easier for municipalities to upgrade school buildings and churches and to establish a number of health care centres and housing facilities. The size has joined the Government's proposal that the guarantee frame under GIEK should be extended from 50 to 60 billion kroner. The government has announced that it will make proposals to extend the guarantee frame below the additional guarantee frame by up to NOK 50 billion. Such guarantees will help to give Norwegian enterprises more favourable framework conditions. It will definitely be important for employment and value creation in our country. In addition, the Government proposes to extend the building loan guarantee scheme for ships from NOK 5 billion to NOK 8 billion. In addition, the government will propose raising the Innovation Norway Loan Framework by DKK 1 billion, to a total of DKK 2.5 billion. A solution has been found for export credits. The State will ensure access to long-term export finance. I have recorded that business leaders have clearly expressed a positive opinion about the measures mentioned. They're referred to as target-oriented and good. Bergen Group announced a week ago a dramatic cut in the workforce. Now the group manager says the Ombudsman that the measures are very good for his industry. Cuts in the workroom are iced. Managing Director Kjetil Bollestad of STX Europe in Florø states that the package of measures will help to save jobs in the yard industry. He stressed that this package had a lot to say to all Norwegian shipyards. The message is positive and clear from actors who really have the shoe on. It is a core task to bring down the interest rate. For a very large number of those who have a high debt on their dwelling, it's actually decisive. For enterprises across the country, there is a lot to say about investment and futures. The draft budget has been designed to achieve this effect. Interest is going down, fortunately. She's going down even further. That's our line. Fortunately, the central bank manager has signalled an additional decline in interest rates. We, who belong to the government party, have long stressed that we must be foreshadowed that the situation in the Norwegian economy may deteriorate. As a consequence, new measures must be introduced. In particular, we must have looked at developments in the labour market. There is a background for the government party to state the following in the financial setting: ‘The majority will therefore ask the Government to follow closely the development of the economy in general and the labour market situation in particular. In addition to a particularly high level of preparedness, the majority will emphasise the importance of the work already being done on any new measures so that they can be put into action quickly if necessary.’ The very last weeks, it has become clear that we may face the most serious economic downturn since the 1930s. The OECD and the World Bank no longer report a decrease in growth but a decrease in production and decline in the European and US economies. Krisa frames all parts of the world economy. She also rams Norway. A few days ago, the Statistical Central Bureau presented figures showing that the growth in production and employment is going downwards. Against this background, I am sending letters to the Minister of Finance asking if and when it would be right to assess whether the monetary and credit policy measures implemented or adopted should be complemented by fiscal measures in addition to those already in the 2009 budget. The Minister of Finance replied yesterday that there is still a great deal of insecurity attached to developments in the Norwegian economy. One of the uncertain points is how measures to improve the situation in financial markets will work, out and home. The impact in this area will be strongly influenced by the way in which the financial crisis is to be followed up in the future. I am clearly satisfied that the Minister of Finance announces that proposals for fiscal measures will be presented at the end of the month of January/February. Actions shall have a particular focus on stimulating employment. I am sure that there is broad support in the Storting to the view that fiscal measures should not prevent a further decline in the governance rate of Norway Bank. The opposition party has criticised the government party for being too pending in relation to the financial crisis. It is also claimed that we are most concerned with running election campaigns. I note that these parties in their alternative budget address to a small extent what is perceived by most actors as the biggest challenge today, namely the lack of liquidity. Instead, they use the opportunity to make old, well-known suggestions – now with the financial crisis as their basis. The Government Party has been busy putting in place a lot of different measures. Everyone should focus on solving concrete problems in the Norwegian economy. For measures to be targeted and properly dimensioned, it is important to have a proper basis for decision-making. It has the basis for our handling of the international financial crisis and the consequences it has had for the economy here in the country. The Progress Party proposes to spend $31 billion more on its budget than on the Government Party. In addition, debt financing is proposed for various projects with DKK 10 billion and toll cancellation with approximately DKK 12 billion. A series of containment proposals are a little realistic. So the budget deficit is going to be much larger than $31 billion. There is little doubt that it is risky to increase the use of oil money by between 50 and 60 billion kroner. There is a good basis for claiming that such an expansive budget as the Progress Party provides will not contribute to the decline in interest rates and to the improvement of debt financing for households and enterprises. Once again, the Progress Party demonstrates that in economic policy they belong to a different planet from all the other parties in the Storting. In its alternative budget, the Right goes into spending as much oil money as the Government. Right-wing claims that their arrangements are well adapted to the current situation. Then there is a paradox that very many of the proposals from the Right are identical to those made by the party in its alternative budget for the current year. They were made when our country was in a strong boom. There is a great gap between the Right and the Progress Party also in fiscal policy. While the Progress Party goes in to give $36 billion in tax and tax bills – £28 billion in book-booked – the Right will reduce taxes by about $10 billion – $5 billion in book-booked. Both parties make it appear that the Government is tightening taxes in downtime. That's incorrect. We keep the tax level unchanged, as we promised in the government statement. Within this level we make some changes that have a very good distribution profile. It is a fact that changes in property taxes and inheritance taxes bring net tax reliefs of almost 200 million. kr. The vast majority of taxpayers will receive lower taxes on wealth because of an increase in the base tax from 350,000 to 470,000 kroner. At the same time, we go in to remove a special rule that currently protects them very well with high wealth and low general income, the so-called 80 pst. rule. The equivalency of commercial property is increasing. The current rules mean that commercial property is valued very low. As a result, people with high real assets are brought forward with much lower tax assets than they actually have. It is not correct, as some claim, that this change will intensify the decline in construction activity. Because the limits on the valuation of commercial property are lowered from 80 to 60 pst. of the market value, this would be more likely to dampen the decline. I remind you that new buildings are normally valued at about 75 pst. A year ago, the government announced that there would be a change in the inheritance fee. The purpose has been to make her fairer. In the 2009 budget, the promise will be implemented. The rates will be reduced, and the entry points will be increased. At least 90 pst. of those who are subject to the scheme must pay less inheritance tax. Of course, this applies to individuals. But not just them. These changes also reduce the inheritance tax for many to take over small and medium-sized family businesses. It's a fact that many have sadly overlooked. Some people will receive an additional inheritance tax as a result of the changes. But by no means can it be said to be dramatic. It is the fair distribution that has been the most important idea in the design of the new inheritance tax system. The work on the 2009 budget has been demanding. That's also how it's going to be in time. We have to be humble about the challenge ahead of us. Therefore, we should be looking for the right actions, and they have to be inserted in time. In this work, solidarity and fair distribution must be the guiding principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e268	It is strange to note that the Workers' Party spokesman reacts to the expansiveness of the budget of the Progress Party when, at the same time, the government comes out with a package of measures in February. Does it mean, in other words, that this government's package of measures should not mean any more money? Then it's not worth much. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. I note that yesterday the committee leader wrote a letter to the finance minister, and about at the same time the letter was sent, there was an answer. If this sets the standard for public proceedings in the future, we will meet bright times in relation to Norwegian bureaucracy. I note that in the form of questions, the Labour Party’s riedar Sandal takes up with the Minister of Finance whether it may be reasonable to bring some fiscal measures beyond what is already in the budget for 2009. Is it true that the government parties, which have a majority on the Grand Duchy, have not intended to make proposals or take their own initiatives without the approval of such initiatives by the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e275	Let me first say that when the Progress Party makes a number of our commitment to the Progress Party, Ulf Leirstein, he has to realize that there is a sea of difference between the use of money that the Progress Party puts up, and what is responsible for economic policy. That is why I have taken the liberty of polishing against the policy in which we are fundamentally disunity, and in which all the other parties in the Storting also reject. Then to my letter to the Minister of Finance. It is that in the financial situation we are now debating, the government party, i.e. the majority of the financial committee, said very clearly that there should be a high level of readiness to develop measures that can be put in place to combat unemployment. We have given a clear indication of that. We've communicated that to the government and the finance minister. That is why we are ready to take action when we have a new estimate and are confident that the course to be chosen is effective, correct and accurate to counter unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e282	First, the alternative budget of the Right does not contain significant tax reductions, but a reversal of all the austerity imposed by the Government on Norwegian enterprises and jobs. Then to the expansiveness of the budget. This morning, in a radio debate with Højre’s head, Erna Solberg, the representative Sandal claimed that she is speaking nonsense when she says that the budget for 2009 is no more expansive than for 2008. In St.meld. No 1 from the Government, on page 60, the expansion indicator is the same for both years, namely 0.7, to which Sandal referred in the radio debate. So Solberg is right. The Chairman of the Committee then has two options. Either he can lament his statement from today morning here and now, and I am happy to pass it on to the party leader, or he can tell the Stortinget when we will be informed that the budgetary documents were not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e289	Let me first say that in its alternative budget, the Right has added up to tax credits of $5.5 billion. The Fleet and the Right need to figure out that we're remembering. At that point, there's a fundamental difference between our course and our right. So the growth impulses in the budget. It is such that the budget proposed by the Government implies the use of oil and gas revenues of NOK 92 billion for 2009. There is an offensive effort to raise the level of the situation that was known when the budget paper was presented. And then in time, we have a series of proposals, which are targeted, and which have two main purposes: one is to get the cash flow going, the other is to bring down the interest rate. I mean, there's a really good system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e298	I must say, I suppose, that the correspondence that has been between the head of the committee, the Chief Spokesman of the Labour Party, and the Minister of Finance, is basically the best expression of the fact that the Government and the Government parties now feel that they are in a severe deficit in the current situation of the Norwegian economy. Even when we had a hearing in the Financial Committee quite shortly after the budget was presented, the Governor said that for the next quarter, zero growth would probably have to be expected in the Norwegian economy. The government and government parties insisted that the figures in the budget with a growth of 1.9 pst. was in the middle of the flash. But now the pipe has got a different sound – albeit late, we get to be happy about it. My question is, when we from the Christian People's Party now ask for and propose an incentive package, in line with what Sandal's representative now suggests, what prevents the government parties from taking part in adopting this today instead of waiting for New Year's?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e307	A great deal has happened since the budget was presented, a budget that is initially clearly expansive. This means that there is a strong commitment to upgrading and maintaining schools and university and university buildings, as well as to increasing activity in the transport sector. It shall have the objective of countering growing unemployment. Then we have put in a series of measures that are very targeted, primarily to create cash flows between the banks and to bring the interest down. It has been targeted, and it has been very well received out. Then we are now notifying that fiscal measures will come in the month-end of January/February. We're going to have a good foundation for the decisions we're going to invite the Storting to make, and I feel very sure that we're going to be able to achieve the goal, simply to put in place measures that are primarily aimed at reducing the unemployment rate. That's our future course.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e314	The chairperson of the Committee has presided over the work of the State budget of the Financial Committee over the past seven weeks, in other words in an excellent way, but with forecasts and assumptions for the budgetary work which it was now easy to see, were more and more in line with what most outside the Committee thought. Then yesterday, after seven weeks of work, we experienced a little unreal treatment, that the committee's director wrote a letter and got an answer, which kind of solved the whole situation. Suddenly we have a completely different agenda. There might be reason to believe, when you see what enormous power the committee leader has by sending a letter, that this could create a completely different situation a few weeks ago. Has the Chairman of the Committee considered at all that he should send the letter he sent yesterday, a few weeks ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e322	I thank you so much for the question, and I am pleased to record that the representative Sponheim is more humble in his comments and approach today than he was yesterday. I record that as a happy progress. Let me say this: I have had and have had very good contact with both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister on these main issues, namely the budgetary work and how it will develop. What prompted me was the latest estimates and assessments from the Statistical Centre and the latest OECD assessments. I have also done well in my letter, which is why this letter was sent. I am clearly satisfied that the Government and the Minister of Finance have shown their power of action and have responded in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e329	Now it has been clear for a long time that we are facing a development in which we have a worsening world economy, and that will, of course, also affect Norway. All indications suggest that private consumption has been reduced and will continue to be reduced in the future. Therefore, there is broad consensus that it makes sense in such a situation to stimulate private consumption not to be overly reduced. Some are therefore entitled to tax relief. It is not only the Progress Party and the Right that have done so – Prime Minister Gordon Brown of the United Kingdom has also taken the floor for it. So it doesn't want to be done in Norway. Then my question is to the representative Sandal: what is in this plural setting that the representative Sandal mein will stimulate private consumption, so that there is no danger to much?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e338	The government party does not have tax havens such as its political leader. We have chosen to strengthen the welfare of our country both in the municipalities and at state level, and in that image we need strong contributions from the community. We've recorded that two of the largest opposition parties and the NHO have made it a main point that one should give tax relief. I am also pleased to note that the LO leader agrees with us that it is not a future course. The measures that will be implemented by the Government and Government Party, we will finally get back to, but I suggest that we need more of the medicine that we've put up with. Greater activity in municipalities and e.g. action to strengthen transport will be targeted at reducing unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e347	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e350	It's a special situation we're in now that we're dealing with the state budget for 2009. Dark clouds threaten the horizon, probably some will claim, when we think about economic development in the coming years. Every day, as the country's top elected assembly, we are reminded of the seriousness of the situation: dismissals, layoffs, forecasting of growth, deferred investments, and market failures in retail and housing. The budget debate tends to deal with the difference between the different parties’ budget proposals each year. But in today's debate we cannot escape the economic crisis we are in the middle of. In such situations, one should perhaps expect that the whole Storting had taken seriously. But let me say that the Financial Committee's treatment of the State budget does not reassure me as to whether all parties are equally concerned with the situation. In spite of the government’s presentation of a state budget that had been prepared long before recent economic developments, the majority therefore chooses not to make any changes to the budget. It must be marked as dramatic! The fact that the Government and the majority parties write letters to each other the day before the budget is adopted by the big crowd also testifies to a small number of executives. What about taking concrete action during the weeks we have been sitting and dealing with the State budget? All opposition parties have been able to present new proposals that face the crisis during the period we have had the budget for consideration in the Financial Committee, while the majority parties have gleaned with their absence in the case of constructive proposals. The Progress Party has chosen to take on board the daily messages we receive from Norwegian businesses about the state, and our budget proposal therefore takes into account the challenges we face. date see. That is why, in the Progress Party, we also have a different device in our alternative budget than we would otherwise have proposed in a so-called normal year. The proposals of the Progress Party to meet the financial crisis, meet reduced economic growth and meet increased unemployment are along two lines: increased investment and tax cuts. In total, we have made proposals of the order of magnitude of approx. $17 billion to meet these challenges. The Progress Party therefore believes that we need to do two things in terms of investment in order to reduce job vacancies in the construction industry: immediate actions in the municipal sector, start building up municipal infrastructure where the maintenance run is high – these will be measures that can be launched almost immediately larger investments in new construction projects in the field of transport In the case of tax cuts, the Progress Party promotes proposals for cuts in the taxation of employees and pensioners of the amount of NOK 5000 to NOK 10000 for next year. This results in increased purchasing power and may counteract market failures, including: in the retail trade. Now that the Storting is dealing with the state budget, we are not just going to make proposals that are about to face the financial crisis. We also need to discuss proposals that can solve our main challenges in the area of well-being. The Progress Party therefore promotes proposals for amendments to the Government's budgetary proposals in a number of areas. Norway, with its oil wealth, has opportunities for many other countries to envy us. Nevertheless, this should not be a sleeping cushion. But we're going to make good, sensible and necessary investments now that will provide better framework conditions for today's citizens, and for those who come after us. The Progress Party, with its alternative state budget, shows the possibilities we have to make such investments. Norway has a large public sector. It requires, in the view of the Progress Party, that we critically review public operations in order to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent as wisely and efficiently as possible. As elected representatives, we manage the money we have available on behalf of the population. Let me go into some areas we have chosen to prioritise: we are constantly reminded of the situation of patients in our hospitals and in the provision of municipal services to elderly, nurturing people. The Progress Party is very concerned about the development of hospitals’ economies and the challenges associated with waiting lists and health cows. The waiting lists are increasing, and testify to a situation that is out of control. In the area of care for the elderly, there are considerable differences between municipalities, and everyone should now see the need for a vigilance for better care for the elderly. The so-called older arrangement that someone made here on the house has not resulted in a better day of care for those concerned. The Progress Party believes that we must provide these people with a better quality offer, more resources must be allocated. The Progress Party therefore proposes a clear commitment to patient treatment and a strengthening of care for the elderly. We do this by proposing system modifications, by using private offerings as a supplement to the public, earmarking more money for our hospitals and more money for the care of the elderly in our municipalities. The government's poverty response has proved to be very poor, including in the 2009 government budget proposal. The government has not used the instruments that could solve the problems of many poor people in Norway. The Progress Party therefore makes several proposals in its alternative budget that will reduce unemployment and increase productivity and efficiency in working life. If we're going to solve challenges for those who have little to walk with, it's about giving people the opportunity to cope with their own income. The Progress Party therefore proposes tax and tax cuts that will benefit them with low and medium incomes. The Progress Party proposes a clear lifting for all minimum pensioners, which will enable them to obtain decent income. Drivers, those travelling collectively and the business community in need of goods transport, are reminded every day of the lack of investment in infrastructure. The proposals of the Progress Party are therefore a long-term major effort on road development, the end of the use of toll resources and the establishment of sustainable and predictable financing of development projects within the transport network, both in road, rail and public transport. This is done, inter alia: by proposing the construction of an infrastructure fund in which returns are earmarked for real investment in transport. My claim is that the government's budget proposal will not improve the security of most people. The situation seems almost out of control, and many feel insecure. We see daily reports in the media on how the state has become, among other things. in the capital. Norway is now in the bottom layer of police coverage in the Nordic region. The Progress Party shall promote through its budget proposals for a significant increase in the police operational budget next year. This will ensure that more police officers are recruited and allow senior experienced police officers to be given adequate opportunities to continue their service. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that Norway should aim at the country’s education system being at the top of the world in terms of quality and learning outcomes and reflect that future jobs will be largely knowledge-intensive. The government's draft budget puts too little emphasis on education and research in relation to the stated objectives on which there has been cross-political agreement. The Progress Party therefore proposes strong commitment to higher education and research, improved quality of initial training, adapted education and improved maintenance of school buildings. The Progress Party believes it is important to increase the budgetary framework for defence. The current security policy situation calls for a stronger defence effort than the government provides. It is not even clear from the Government to follow up the agreement and the decisions taken for a short time in relation to the Defence Framework for the coming years. The Advance Party believes that the defence's appropriations have for a long time not been in proportion to the orders Stortinget has ordered the defence to be resolved. The Progress Party therefore proposes a strong reinforcement of defence, with DKK 2 billion. We see that as the beginning of an economic escalation plan for the Defence. The Progress Party wants a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face in today's and tomorrow's societies. Furthermore, the nature of the defence must be such that it can easily be adapted to the various threat images. This can best be ensured by maintaining a fundamental defence with core tasks in Norwegian soil, but with the capacity to participate in operations elsewhere in the world. The Progress Party's alternative state budget has been promoted for two purposes. One is to find solutions to the basic challenges and shortcomings we see in the welfare community in a number of areas. We believe that the government unfortunately does too little. On the other hand, the Progress Party is addressing the challenges we are now facing in a financial crisis and in a situation in the coming years where we are seeing increased unemployment. That is why we are promoting action now. We do not wait until February, but we would like to come back to spring and the whole next year with ongoing measures. However, we must make concrete proposals today when the Storting is united and has the opportunity to adopt budgetary decisions and to change the government's budget. Finally, I would like to address all the proposals put forward by the Progress Party alone or with others through the budgetary positions and in the representatives' proposals that follow the debate on the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e410	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e415	Yesterday we were able to read in the Municipal Report what the representative Leirstein meant about new forecasts from the Statistical Central Bureau and the OECD. He then advocated more efforts for construction projects and maintenance in the municipalities. There was also an emphasis on the risk of increased unemployment. Mr Leirstein called for action and claimed that the budget had been drawn up on a failing basis. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance made it clear that the Government would introduce new measures to combat unemployment. Then the representative Leirstein claimed to VG Nett that ‘the arrival of the crisis package makes the budgetary procedure a point of departure’. I therefore note that the representative, Leirstein, is clearly the most busy in putting the government party and government in a negative light – to say it diplomatically. The effort to reduce the damage caused by the financial crisis and ensure jobs for people is clearly much smaller.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e427	Sitting in a negative light seems to me to be doing the government in an excellent way myself. They don't need help from the Progress Party. Why do I say that? We are in a situation where we see major challenges, and we see daily that there are redundancies in large jobs and in small jobs. That should worry a lot. Now, as the chairman of the Financial Committee knows, we have been sitting six to seven weeks in the Financial Committee and working on the budget without the government parties, which have a majority, having made a single proposal to meet the financial crisis. You want to wait until February. This in many ways makes this budgetary procedure a joke. The majority also see that there is a need for major changes in the budget that has been planned to be adopted today. You can see that the predictions you intend to use are wrong. Nevertheless, one should now wait before using the six-seven weeks of the Financial Committee to make constructive proposals, as an overall opposition has actually done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e438	In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party proposes a number of tax reliefs to people with high incomes and wealth. The taxes on wealth on commercial property are to be reduced and the wealthiest are to pay lower taxes on wealth than ordinary people. The tax on capital income shall be limited and the inheritance tax shall be removed. In total, it's going to be approx. NOK 3 billion to the richest in Norway. Of course, this is the proper use of Community funds, but one can ask questions as to whether these are effective measures against the financial crisis. Is it true that the Progress Party believes that the richest are particularly hard hit by unemployment and higher interest rates as a result of the financial crisis, or is it just good, old-fashioned right-wing policy to ensure that the richest do not pay taxes? Does the representative, Leirstein, think this is good policy for most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e445	If the picture were as one-sided as the representative Lund Bergo is trying to present it, it wouldn't have been a good policy for most people. He has obviously not read the entire proposals of the Progress Party in the field of fiscal policy. Let me mention two things: we give massive tax reliefs to most people by increasing the bottom line and the minimum deductions that cut the tax in the pool, and that make those with low and medium incomes get much more economic freedom with the arrangement of the Advance Party than the Government puts up. In the case of taxes on wealth, the Progress Party proposes to increase the base deduction up to NOK 750000, in many ways miles above the government party it seems natural to pay taxes on wealth. We are absolutely convinced that if you increase the tax base to DKK 750 000, normal people with ordinary income and living standards will get a tax cut that is very positive. Then we have some challenges with the tax-sparing government parties putting on business, which I hope they're actually going to reverse when we get to February.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e456	The Progress Party cuts fees by DKK 10.3 billion in its alternative budget. As a reason for these cuts, you say that you want a clean-up of the various charges, with a view to removing those who are poorly justified, who have little economic significance, who are creating increased bureaucracy, and who are generally just irritating most people, as you write yourself. It is also pointed out that you are against so-called environmental taxes that end up right in the state register. This should, of course, provide too much tax relief for purposes that can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions, such as: for low- and zero-emission cars, flexi fuel cars, cars operating on bioethanol, etc. I've been looking for such relief, but I can't find anyone. Since the representative did not have the opportunity to comment on the climate and environmental measures of the Progress Party in the budget, I now give the representative the opportunity to point out what tax relief you have made that makes it a green-red charging policy with their budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e466	The President recalls that the speech is addressed to the President and not to ‘them’.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e469	Let me first say that half of the line was an outline of the alternative state budget of the Advance Party, and of course I fully agree with that. I think it was very well formulated. So to the question of what we're actually doing. Well, in the head of the Progress Party, when we look at the charging policy in Norway, there is no doubt that a number of Norwegian fees are fiscal, that they are simply a revenue to the Treasury and to a small extent have a different reason behind them, and that they are actually earmarked to a small or zero degree. Much of what many of us today think we pay as so-called environmental taxes does not go to the environment. We are aware of that, and then we have to do something with those fees. The Progress Party, inter alia: does, is that we cut the one-off charge on the car. We want to make car purchases in Norway more reasonable, and this applies to all cars. But what we know is that newer cars pollute less than old cars. If we could have done something about the old car park in Norway, it would have been a very good and environmentally friendly measure. Making sure that it was cheaper to buy new cars, so that most people were motivated to buy new cars, as I said, would have been a very good climate action. I also hope that the Christian People's Party can look at that opportunity when they present their billing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e478	At a hearing in the US Congress on Thursday, October 23 this year on the economic downturn, the former U.S. Governor Alan Greenspan, who has had a key role in the policy underlying the financial crisis, said that he was wrong when he believed the self-interests of organizations, especially banks, were such that they were best suited to protect their own shareholders. The Progress Party has been a supporter of this idea in Norway, and that is the core of the ideology of the Progress Party. Late in a position of the Municipal Committee which was discussed in Stortinget last Friday, Innst. S. No 43 for 2008-2009, the Progress Party said: «The members of the Committee of the Parties shall be trailers of self-regulatory markets.» The question is, what indicates that this understanding of the functioning of the market is comprehensive, when seafaring Greenspan takes maritime criticism? When does the Progress Party get to Greenspan?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e490	Someone might say that coming after Greenspan is like jumping after Wirkola, but I don't feel it like that. Let me first say, it's going to have to go wrong when Per Olaf Lundtigen is going to try to explain what is the ideology of the Progress Party. It's going to be wrong, because the starting point is wrong. Let me just clarify something that I have said in a lot of debates, and that the Progress Party has been saying for weeks: the Progress Party is of course to have frameworks in the financial industry as well. The representative, Lundteigen, knows that very well. We have had a number of issues that go on regulating the financial industry, here at this rate long before the financial crisis occurred. Those matters have passed the Storting unanimously, and we are gathered about a framework. So, within that framework, the Progress Party very much believes that we have to let the market rule, and we see absolutely that in a number of areas it is very sensible rather than having a kind of political interference that can go wrong. In the United States, interest rates have been largely policy-driven, artificially directed, rather than left to more unreserved actors, and we see how things have been. We have seen that the involvement of politicians in the housing market has resulted in a housing bubble.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e499	The representative, Leirstein, has just said from the pulpit of the Stortinge that the government parties have not done anything since the budget was presented. Then I would like to remind you that an offensive budget was put forward, so offensively that the Right and Left felt that it was too expansive. A crisis package has been presented to the bank market of DKK 350 billion, which was dealt with in the Financial Committee, in which Mr Leirstein's representative also sits. There have been two interest reductions, we have given increased equity to the Municipal Bank, to GIEK, to Innovation Norway and to Export Finance, not later than tonight. My question to the representative Leirstein is whether he has slept during the last month of the proceedings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e504	No, that's not what the representative Leirstein has done, but it's going to be a good time to get the chance to sleep out, when we're done with the finance debate sometime tonight. But let me say the following: all the measures that Marianne Aasen refers to go a great deal on monetary and credit policy, and there has been unanimity. What is my criticism and the criticism of the Progress Party is that in fiscal policy, which is the state budget, where we are thus putting the leaders for next year, the government parties have not been willing to change a bit about. They've moved in at 100 million. kr of a budget that has a cost side of DKK 848 billion – SEK 100 million. kr taken from the miscellaneous item to spread slightly here and there, certainly to prove something to representatives of their own fraction sitting in the committee. The problem here is that the big grips are not going to be done through fiscal policy, but postponed until February. I think it is a dangerous course for the country to put up with important fiscal instruments. Now we have the finance debate, we have to decide on the budget today. There should have been some changes from the government parties from this budget to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e509	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e512	Many people are uncertain and concerned about what the financial crisis and the decline in the economy will mean for themselves, for the family and for workmates. What began as panic on the world's stock exchanges, and most of us just looked through the TV route, has gradually become reality for many people, including in Norway. No one fully knows what's going on, how tough it will be, and what really needs to be done to create security for home and work, and to create new optimism. While we discussed what we should do before the summer to get the country more labour force, we now receive daily reports of bankruptcies, permits and new redundancies. Yes, there's almost a wall-to-wall in newscasts and in the newspapers about people who lose their jobs. Two days ago we were told that Skanska had to cancel 800 people. Yesterday we were told that at Hydro on Karmøy 450 people lost their jobs. It stands as a monument to a faulty industrial policy and red-green lifting break. At Hydro on Raufoss, a lot of people lose their jobs. Because the car industry in Asia, the car industry in Europe and the car industry in the United States are struggling, people producing cars at Raufoss are also losing their jobs. We see that the crisis affects production companies and family-run hotels in District Norway. Yes, when people stop buying a sofa, it hits the wool reception on Tynset and the furniture carpenter in the Moon Valley. The current crisis will not only affect some individuals, some industries and some areas of the country – it will affect us all. Today we are going to deal with a budget that had expired on the date when it was presented, a budget that is exacerbating the crisis in many companies. It took the government seven weeks to admit that the red-green budget is not the answer to the recession we're going into, and it's going to be another eight weeks before the government comes up with new measures. We have a government that drags its legs. As late as the beginning of October, the Government, at least the Prime Minister, who stood up in Stavanger Aftenblad, felt that the crisis was not going to hit Norway. It took a long time for the government to come up with measures to address the banking crisis, and we have seen that the other measures only come after both the opposition and the business have pointed out the need over a long time. The uncertainty that many people now feel must be answered with cooperation and political leadership. What we've seen from the government building so far is arrogance and paralysis. The question can be asked as to whether the Government is struggling to agree on the measures to be taken. In the last 30 years, globalisation has been speeding up. The economy is liberalised and several countries participate in international trade. It's positive. Millions of people have been lifted out of poverty. Trade creates peace, it contributes to development, and it contributes to well-being. At the same time, it is obvious that the financial crisis has shown that we are also more vulnerable. The crisis is spreading, and it is gradually hitting all corners of the world. When the economy is globalised, policy must also follow. Driving rules are needed in the economy and there is a need for supervision of financial institutions. There is a need for good regulation, and there is a need for good supervision. On the right, there will be no sparse capitalism, but a social market economy in which regulation ensures competition and supervision ensures stability. That is why, in our alternative budget, we are also proposing increased appropriations both for the credit supervision and for the supervision of competition. That's good right-wing policy national, and that's good right-wing policy international. That is why we are followers of Norwegian EU membership, because the EU is the only international cooperation where policy follows the economy, where there is transnationality and an opportunity to ensure common rules and regulation across borders. I believe that it is a great paradox that the parties and the people who are most concerned about the need for policy to follow the economy, and who see the need for regulation of the economy, are the ones who are also the most opposed to Norwegian EU membership. The market economy is not part of the problem; the market economy and trade are part of the solution. The worst thing that could happen in the current international situation is more protectionism and more solitude. That is why I am pleased that the G20 meeting in Washington a few weeks ago just decided to ring the bells on international trade and the market economy. I am also pleased that we have a Finance Minister from SV who is promoting proposals that ensure the functioning of the market economy. It appears that SV has found some form of division of labour, where the manager ensures the market economy, while the vice-leader believes that the market economy is dead. It is a somewhat interesting form of balance, but I am more concerned that the Minister of Finance is promoting proposals that also take care of the functions of the market economy. The right has experience in managing in difficult times. When we took over the government in 2001, it was after the terrorist attack on the United States, and it was at the same time that the dot com bubble cracked. Our policy helped to reverse pessimism and decline to optimism and progress. By making it more profitable to work by allowing people to keep more of their own income, by making it profitable to invest in jobs, knowledge and transport, and through a policy that helped to reduce interest rates, we helped secure jobs and get the Norwegian economy on foot. Of course, our alternative budget will not solve the financial crisis – of course it will not – but we believe that it will be a first step to mitigate the impact of the recession we are now entering, and we believe that it will be a first step towards contributing to new optimism. It is important that we are not only concerned with securing jobs, we must also be concerned with creating new ones, we must be concerned with optimism. That is why we are focusing on school, research and innovation. That's why we're spending one billion on road construction, and that's why we're increasing the lending framework for municipalities from 2 to 5 billion kroner, so that there's more to be invested in maintenance and municipal construction. We also remove the government's tax incentives for businesses and jobs. I am absolutely convinced that in this debate too we will hear that the Right is giving more to those who have the most from before. It doesn't get right the more times it repeats. The truth is, we're removing the government's tax cuts in jobs, and then we're lowering the tax on people with low and ordinary incomes. The tax aggressors put forward by the Government are not the richest people from Oslo, but they are production companies in the district of Norway. These are family-run hotels – yes, they are Sigurd Kvikne, at the Kviknes Hotel in Balestrand, which has just said that the tax package that the Government has now promoted affects the family-run hotels in District Norway, it affects jobs and it affects value creation. I'm not going to hang up in this correspondence, I don't think it's the most interesting, but we were told yesterday that some new measures would come sometime in the New Year. The only thing that was clarified in this wonder package was that the government would not remove its tax atrocities. It shows that we have a government that puts ideology ahead of jobs, it shows both dogmatism and arrogance, that one is not willing to have dialogue also on instruments of tax relief. I would like to quote one of the directors of the SSB: when we have an American Republican president who can nationalize the banks, yes, the jam has a red-green government in Norway to discuss tax relief. People should expect us as politicians to open up cooperation. It does the right. When we spoke about this a few weeks ago, we met mostly headshaking, with the exception of Arne Strand in the Newspaper, who agreed with the Right that now we need cooperation across the block boundaries. Now I see that business is also calling for cooperation, and our door is open to discuss actions in a pragmatic way. Today, we are promoting proposals for better lay-off arrangements for employees, because we believe it is important to provide security for employees in the situation we are currently in. We need balanced measures that stimulate both the public sector, road construction and maintenance, but also tax incentives that allow people to feel more secure in the family economy. I'm addressing the suggestions that the right has made in the setting and here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e544	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e549	Many of the proposals of the Right cannot be said to meet the realistic budgetary requirements of the Financial Regulation. Among other things, it is proposed to cut DKK 1.8 billion in the agricultural agreement, an agreement that has been concluded for a period and cannot be cancelled in the middle of the period. Furthermore, the Right budgets $450 million. kr to so-called dynamic effects in relation to tax relief, despite the fact that we know that it is often many years before we can see such effects. Other examples are the sale of property that is not specified, tax reliefs, where the difference between book and accrued proceeds is excessive, and reduced costs resulting from Social Security to the work package. Would it not be more honest for voters to budget properly and responsibly and rather admit increased use of oil money? Isn't the containment a lot of airy blue smoke?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e556	The answer to that is no. And I'm a little surprised that the Workers' Party is not more concerned about the increasing unemployment and people who lose their jobs than about whether the Right has realistic budgeting in its alternative budget. I accept the changes we have made in our proposal. When we also account for the dynamic effects of our tax policy, it's because we believe that you lower taxes, make it more profitable to work, and that will also lead to the state getting some of the tax revenue back. It has been documented through the SSB reports that the country gets about 50 cents back from each krona given in tax bills. When we account for the benefits of modernising the public sector, it is because we are convinced that modernising the public sector, we also get more of the resources that we put in. When we tighten up asylum policy, it also means that the number of asylum seekers in Norway is reduced. I rather think we should discuss how to create security for home and work than what is realistic budgeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e568	The President will remind all the representatives that it's time for the interlocutors. When the red lamp turns off, close your mouth, for the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e571	In a number of ways, we encounter colder times. The winter is here, soon the snow comes, and for some of us it means that there are opportunities to go on ski tours. If just a lubricator is right, it might be good. Everyone has well experienced good glides, but left behind when we are going up, or firmly attaching up, but scratches under the rails so that one must tread down the broken ground. It is not easy to lubricate properly under demanding conditions, and it is not easy for one to put on Blue Swix under all kinds of conditions. Now I don't know what the representative Sanner is lubricating with, but he and the Right may have a universal lubrication for skiing, just as they seem to have universal resources for all economic conditions. As far back as I can remember, the Right has without exception proposed tax relief, or the Blue Swix as proper lubrication. Yes, and in pure right-hand style it is well that the best and most lubrication goes to those who have the best skis, whether they are silky or tailor-made or ice-cream. Is it true that tax and blue Swix are the perfect lubrication, and does the representative Sanner believe that tax and blue Swix are the perfect lubrication for all conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e582	Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e585	Or is it a possible situation that the Right believes that tax relief is not preferable? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e590	I believe in both Blue Swix and tax relief, but if the representative Lund Bergo goes into the Right proposal from last year and for this year, he will see that there is a difference in the proposal we promoted last year, and the proposal we are promoting this year. Last year, we were busy dampening the pressure on the economy. That's why we spent less oil money than the government suggested. This year we're using the same amount. Last year we proposed less tax relief. Now we're proposing something more to stimulate value creation, and because it's important that families keep more of their own income. But I guess that's roughly with the right as it is with the SV. Where SV believes in tax incentives, both in good times and in bad times, it is important that people keep a little more of their own income, that they also motivate to work. But I would like to stress that in the situation we are now, balanced action is important. I believe it is necessary both to build several roads and to invest more in maintenance in the municipalities. I believe that we should have more targeted poverty measures, while stimulating the economy through tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e599	The international financial crisis has given rise to uncertainty, which many have experienced, and we have seen the signs of the last year increasingly clearly. The government presented a more offensive budget on 7 October, and the interesting thing was that on 5 October, two days before the government budget was presented, the representative Sanner said to NTB: «And now economic uncertainty requires a tight budget that cannot be reconciled with billions of all these promises». These promises were the Soria Moria promises. So the right hand line is still a tighter fiscal policy than the government's line. The most important cut on the Right-hand side of the expenditure is an unprofessional cut in an agricultural agreement, one with the support of the Progress Party. But the Right Line stands firm: less public efforts and more tax cuts. My question is, why doesn't a map change when the terrain is new?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e613	I think that most of us – from me, from the representative Lundtigen, and, as I was in my main post, also from Jens Stoltenberg – will be found from both September, the beginning of October, and perhaps even the middle of October, which is out of proportion to the serious crisis we are now seeing. I believe in less slippery security and more humility in relation to the use of instruments in the crisis we are now facing. So to the question whether it's the right goes into less public activity. No, we don't. If you look at the use of oil money, the government will use 14 extra oil billions in 2009. Everything is used in the public sector. I agree with what Stoltenberg said at the end of the 1990s, that something should be used for the public sector and something to reduce taxes. We spend less than half of the 14 billion to reduce taxes, and then we spend the rest of the billions to stimulate the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e620	In many ways, Sanner has a good description of the reality of what we are now experiencing at national and international level, when we are now facing an emerging financial crisis that has taken a great deal of action in Norway as well as poor economic prospects in the future. Then I have to add that if you keep these characteristics of the government quarter away, I think we can quite agree on that. But today's battle in the Chamber is not about a description of reality – I think this has gradually sunk in the hearts of the vast majority of people – but about which blocks of Norwegian policy are best equipped to meet the turmoil that is now coming. In the absence of a civil consensus on very many things, in addition to criticising the Government for bringing forward tax proposals that go in a redistributive direction and generally criticising the Government, right-wing proposals further. Thus, the same tax policy proposals that were promoted in a high economic cycle in 2008 are being re-launched at a time of financial crisis and financial turmoil. Can't Sanner and Right be so honest to say that in general, regardless of economic times, you're against proposals that go in a different direction. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e629	First, with regard to the civil parties, I think we can establish that these appear to have more agreement and have more joint proposals in this budget than we had earlier in the period. Of course, I also recognise that there is different dosage rates, but all the bourgeois parties are removing the government's tax incentives that affect jobs, increasing the appropriations for transport, increasing the appropriations for knowledge, increasing the appropriations for targeted poverty measures, just to mention something. It is quite right, as Micaelsen says, that the right is a result of lowering taxes – not heavy tax reliefs, but careful reductions that benefit people with normal wage incomes, which make it more profitable to save on their own pension and which make investing in Norwegian jobs more profitable. I have not seen a single employee representative who can explain to me what jobs you save by sending an increased tax bill to the companies. But I am convinced that saving a lot of jobs will be achieved if you lower the tax somewhat for those who invest in jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e640	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e643	We are living in a time of two crises – the climate crisis that threatens disease, water shortages and forest fires, and the financial crisis, which is the fall of market fundamentalism and threatens people's jobs. Yesterday we presented the work plan on how to combat unemployment that knocks on the door of people working in industries that notice that there is a global downturn, and today we are going to deal with the budget that the Government presented in October. The financial crisis has given faith that unregulated markets are a good solution, a serious break. It is a system that encourages greed among owners and managers, which leads banks without tight regulation to lend out too much money in good times to then cross over in bad times. To say as the Nobel Prize winner in economics, Stiglitz: The reason why the invisible hand seems invisible is simply that it doesn't exist. Some of those who have found themselves closest to market liberalism in Norway, such as the United Kingdom, may have a tough party. The Party of Advancement and the former leader of the Advancement Party Carl I. Hagen, had it when the lie of life rakes. In an article in the Evening Post, Hagen claims that there are social demands for American banks that are responsible for the financial crisis. He pointed out that the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 and other American measures to stimulate American banks to borrow money was what led to the crisis. Hagen's claim is that this is the background of the subprime crisis. But that's wrong. Why in the world would a 30-year-old law suddenly lead to an explosion in bad loans from 2002 onwards? 75 pst. of all sub-prime loans — loans secured by collateral to poor clients — were granted by financial institutions not covered by that law. Those who believe in market fundamentalism have acted wrong, believed wrong, and tried to cover up all their bad ideas. Our job in the year to come and in the next few years will be to make sure to help solve both these two crises, both get jobs for people and solve the climate problems. We have several grips in the budget that we presented on 7 October, but there will be more grips in the direction of time coming, in the month-end of January/February. If we go through the most important things in the budget, which help to follow exactly what is promised in the elections – because that’s what’s important, we meet people, we’ve got confidence from people, we’ve got a mandate to implement a red-green policy – there’s two things that point out. One is to make sure that we follow up on what we promised, and the other is to make sure that we meet the challenges that are going on along the way, and that is why both the financial crisis and the climate crisis are important. But we're following up on the things we promised. Take the children's hail: it's going to be full babysitting. It's amazing. When I was a kid, I had to wait until I was six years old before I was allowed to start in a public kindergarten. When we know that the best prerequisite for success at school, the most clear relationship you can see, is that you've gone to kindergarten, preferably for many years. Then I think with horror about what it would have been like if I had been allowed to start in kindergarten as a two-year-old. Then I would have been completely propeller. We're going to fulfill the baby hail lift, and I'm incredibly proud of that. Then we solve important problems in terms of climate. We're making sure to bet more on the railway. We're building railroads with both hands, we're building railroads like never before. We have to, because traveling collectively instead of using a car, is one of the most important people who can choose to do themselves to create a better climate in the local environment, in their everyday lives. And then it's important for road safety. Every five persons killed in road accidents are killed in road accidents related to a vehicle combination. Then it is essential to get more of freight traffic on rails, both for the climate and for people's safety. We are committed to climate research, energy saving and renewable energy because it is absolutely necessary in the time we are in. When we look at the overview that the International Energy Agency presented on what to solve the challenges of the future, CO2 clean-up is an essential matter, so that we spend so much money on the development of CO2 clean-up technologies is absolutely crucial. I remember that over the past few weeks, the head of the IEA, the International Energy Agency, has presented World Energy Outlook, which very clearly confirms that we are moving towards a six-degree rise in temperature if we continue as we do today. Then I have to say that it is interesting that the country's second largest party does not mention the climate with a single word in this debate, which is therefore the country's most important debate when we are shaping the future. What I think people notice most around the world is that we reach the percentage, and that we spend a lot of money on rainforest measures, just because it creates an commitment and an enthusiasm that the richest countries are willing to contribute to solving climate problems. For us, it is essential to reduce the differences. Norway is a country where differences have decreased during the time we have been in government. Fewer people are receiving social assistance now. And the promise we make about the housing support system, where 50,000 new people are going to get housing support, is going to make people who have poor advice better, especially if you see it in connection with the social security schemes we've had lately, where we've had a clear low pay profile and made sure that people who have the lowest social security benefits are lifted. It's important to us, because we're for justice. And then I can't stand the right side and Jan Tore Sanner, who invites to a crisis settlement and says that the precondition for making a crisis settlement with us is that we should make sure that we don't remove all the taxes for the richest. So that's the most important thing. It's not the businesses that are affected by this, it's the people who own the businesses that are affected by the measures we take. The most wealthy own shares, and those who inherit the greatest assets inherit shares. Obviously, if you don't make sure you have a fair tax on this, you don't want fair distribution. You have to admit from the right that you don't want fair distribution, but you don't have to call it anything else. Then it must not be said that this is because we from the Government are not willing to see what is important to do. We are clearly showing that we are able to meet the challenges of the financial crisis we are facing, by looking at the situation, by trying to get an overview of the situation and by taking the concrete measures, dosed in the right way when the problems arise. Because that is what is important if we are to manage this crisis properly. The right side has turned around from the position to the position from the budget. The day before the budget was presented, during the throne debate, Erna Solberg believed that a neutral budget should be in place – at least that's what I heard. A neutral budget would have been a budget where we cut 10 billion of the money that's here. That's not what the right has come up with when they've finally been summed up over the course of these seven weeks. A budget has been presented at the same level as that proposed by the Government. So now you think we're being lost because we're not going to present the crisis package right now. We want to get an overview, and it's important in the time we're in now. You can't wait to think about it because you're not sure what the future's going to be like. But then you must not be as cannon-bombastic as some of the representatives of our big business have been. Then you'd better be a little humble and say that we're on this because we think it's right, but it's not sure that that's the point of view that turns out to be the right one in the future. You have to be a little bit more humble. I heard Jan Tore Sanner promised he would be. – Or it might have been a hard time, he said it was a good idea to be humble, but I assumed it was also true of him. Then I will also contribute on my side. What is important in the rest of this great period – and now we have one year left until the elections – is how we manage to deal with the situation we are facing in the face of a climate crisis, a financial crisis in which we have rising unemployment, and how people perceive that as a red-green government, we have fulfilled the promises that we thought were most important. I believe that this budget that we have presented shows very clearly that we are taking long steps towards fulfilling the promises we made before the elections. Setting up and running the policy in the direction that we promised people before the elections, which led to the mandate we were given and were allowed to govern the country for four years now, gives us a good opportunity to convince people that we should regain confidence in the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e686	It's going to be line change. The President would also like to thank the President for the advertising of the President's glittering Evening Post article.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e691	Other countries with different political values have launched action packages where tax incentives for individuals and businesses are key elements. In Norway, key players in the trade, business and financial markets have argued that if people with lower and medium income retain more of their own income, it will be an effective tool to keep the wheels running. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government should maintain the overall tax and tax burden at the same level as in 2004. Is the representative Holmås willing to break his tax promise from Soria Moria to help save Norwegian economy and jobs? Is tax relief one of the grips that the representative Holmås spoke about in his post? Or, in other words, is there a climate for tax relief in February, i.e. next year? And then the word climate has also been mentioned by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e700	It was very good, President--I was going to say Christian Tybring-Gjedde, but then I had been shut up by the president! The question is very good to answer. These are the following: we need to assess all the measures proposed and all the measures put forward. However, it is right to say that if we are to choose between measures that target unemployment, tax relief – at least after all the experience and knowledge we have – is one of the worst measures taken. It is much more targeted to meet the construction industry and the challenges that lie in the time to come, to make sure that municipalities get money to clean up schools, that we invest in railway lines, that we invest in further community welfare when people go out of work. It is much, much more important and much more accurate for the economy of individuals and for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e707	I think many of us who heard SV's fiscal spokesman now, felt that much of what was described was pretty far away. He spent a lot of time on the climate crisis, and the description there put the Minister of Finance's statement that one should now go shopping, and it was a bit sloppy, in a rather strange light. It shows how fast SV leaves its platform. But there is much to it if SV has not also understood that business is now gasping for air. In the nation today, it says that a business owner out in District Norway now has to withdraw money from the company to pay taxes on values that are lost. With SV's policy, the concept of getting rid of clothes while the owner is out bathing is going to get a new content. This is where we run out of equity in companies, and jobs are lost. Does the FIP believe that the budget is still well adapted?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e716	I think the tax changes we're making are right. When we put forward a work plan, where we are working on new measures and look at the situation to come up with new measures in the month-end of January/February, it clearly shows that we believe that there can be room for adjustment of the budget before what was planned, in May. It gives an answer to your question, whether it's adapted to the situation. It was a budget that got criticism from the Right because it was too expansive when it was presented. Now the representative believes that it is not well adapted to the situation. We believe it is necessary to intervene, because we see that the financial crisis is taking place in Norwegian jobs. The most important thing for us is to make sure that this budget now has time to work, so that interest rates go down, so that ordinary businesses can get the loans they need to implement the investments they need, and that we get the housing market to work properly. Then you have to prevent unemployment from rising, and that's what we've been working with all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e728	The President will remind the representative, Holmås, that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e731	The representative Heikki Holmås began by saying that he was delighted about the announcement of yesterday's package of measures. It also does the Christian People's Party. But there is a problem with everything: it should have come fourteen days ago. At that time, we had the package of measures for treatment today, for pleasure and for the benefit of both employers and employees. But now leave it. In the action package of the Christian People's Party, we propose a reduction in the employer's fee for young workers, an increase in grants to enterprises that take in apprentices and an increase in depreciation rates, for example. machinery, ships, vans and operational buildings. There are good and targeted measures for young people in a difficult labour market and to stimulate more and better investment in jobs and employment. Can SV support this, or will SV's ideological resistance to tax relief prevent it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e738	We've never been opponents of giving taxpayers targeted, and taking money elsewhere to fund this. That's what we're doing in our budget, and we've done it in the tax conversions we've done. We have e.g. tightened towards those who have the most money, and issued it in tax booklets to others. It is a policy that is in line with our ideology, not in conflict with our ideology. So all of the suggestions that are recorded here are important. One thing I want to mention, as we've done with regard to youth, is just that we've got a youth guarantee in place, which ensures that they get a special treatment of the labour market parliament, Nav, to make sure people get back to work. There's one grip that we've thought is important to get into place for young people. It is clear that in the context of future challenges, for example: with downtimes in the construction industry, the situation is, among other things, apprentices one of the things we need to look at in the context of the spring action package.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e747	I am interested in giving the representative Holmås an opportunity to deepen his view of companies and business owners. That's how we have three amazing years behind us. Most farms in Norway have done well. They've made a lot of money. It has also enabled them to expand and create new jobs. Therefore, the unemployment rate has fallen to a level that both the representative Holmås and I are satisfied with. Behind each new job is the invested mass of equity, which the same business owners have chosen to leave in the company, instead of putting them in their own pocket and running a vulgar consumption. Then there are those who only run a vulgar consumption, and who can well be characterized as the rich, and the names that the representative Holmås uses. But he gets unfurnished when he does the same with regard to the laborers around. These workers leave the money in the company to create new jobs, which means many of the classic business owners: the bunches themselves – they bet on the company. In this debate, in his speech, he sweeps them away as the ‘rich’ that he saw can only torment and talk bad about. The representative Holmås should have a chance to correct the impression he has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e754	I have never given the impression that owning a business in itself is something that makes you a rich person. We know a lot about that. The majority of companies in Norway have so few employees that we understand that the people who run and own them are not rich. Just at a time when we have had the highest economic boom in several decades, we expect that people have spent money and have spent something at a worse time as well. If that's right, as Sponheim's representative says, these are some business owners, some business owners will just have done that kind of thing. They haven't invested for or in the belief that it's going to be 6 pst. or 7 pst. growth in Norway for all eternity. They expect that after a boom, there will be a recession, and then they have spent money. The changes we have made in the inheritance tax – which does not immediately hit a pile of businesses, because fortunately people do not drive and die on time and without time; planned deaths that hit the richest are probably not exactly what happens – I think it is important not to hit business owners. We believe that we have made a good arrangement for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e760	I have recently registered that the Government now wants to promote more trade between Norway and Israel. The Government shall have all due respect for that. The Progress Party believes that trade between countries not only creates wealth and has brought millions of people out of poverty, but also creates peace and contributes to development. More trade is good for Norwegian export industries, but also some Norwegian consumers benefit from having access to new products, more varied diets, more offers and not least freedom of choice, which is a good example of the trade with a number of countries in Asia. However, in the Progress Party, we want more trade with other countries – especially with the developing countries of the world. That is why we are proposing to remove all customs duties on all products from developing countries that are on the OECD DAC list. What I'm asking is why the representative Holmås does not agree with this, and then in particular why goods from Palestinian administered areas are not exempt from customs duties to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e767	I have to admit that I notice a development from the Progress Party on the issue of customs. In the past it was that the Progress Party would be free of customs freedom for absolutely everyone. It is now restricted to the countries on the DAC list. Nevertheless, if we really want to promote trade with the poorest countries, it has to be that the poorest countries have some advantages that not the second poorest or the third poorest countries have. There is no doubt that a good part of the economies that are now struggling with just building up their own business, their own industry and their own agricultural production would be smoothly won by giant countries like Brazil and Argentina at the moment it became free for all, as the Progress Party wants. We do not want that. We want to give the poorest countries, and some of the second poorest countries, some benefits that the rest of the countries do not have. That is why we have the policy of customs which we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e772	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e775	The budget presented at the beginning of October is felt in many ways out of date. There have been many events both here at home and outside since that budget was presented. It is enough to mention bank collapse in many countries, a neighbouring country in deep crisis and packages throughout the euro zone to contribute to a strengthened business life and to prevent crises in the financial system. There have been choices in the United States, and new packages are on their way in that country to secure American economy. Some people have probably needed to adjust their reality from the new events we've all witnessed. But it's something that has stood as a salt support through all of this, and it's the Norwegian state budget for 2009. It's unaffected by all events, almost like it's the center of the universe and everything else has to relate to it -- not the opposite. In fact, we are now adopting a budget based on the marginal increase in unemployment in 2009, which is 0.25 pst. , and budget figures continue to say that the growth in 2009 will be close to 2 pst. These numbers seem to have been written in stone. There have been many possibilities to update the budget in line with reality, but the will — possibly the ability — has been absent. At least there has been no lack of evidence. Let it go that you don't lend ear to the opposition – that would in case be a big surprise – but what about established economic environments? What about the SSB? What about the Bank of Norway? What about the OECD? What about business? What about trade unions? Neither has the government seen any need to meet relevant input. Well, the situation is closely followed, we're aware of developments, and we're ready, the answer has been every single time. In the Christian People's Party, however, we have a certain belief in the art of repetition, and I must say that it seems to have loosened the last few days in terms of the ability to listen. Even if it's late, we appreciate it. The government parties and government representatives want to know that from the Christian People's Party we asked for an action package, an incentive package, in the budget already at the end of October, when we saw that the figures deteriorated significantly. When the Governor of the Central Bank, in the hearing of the Financial Committee, said that it would be zero-growth for several quarters to come, a warning lamp should also be in the hands of the government parties: it could have helped to get a package adopted today that could stimulate business and ensure that the free-lanced hands came into work faster than it is now scheduled to, by notifying a package in February. There is no lack of free hands, unfortunately, when we look forward. Nor is it lacking in road, rail and public building rehabilitation tasks. This crisis could be used to exploit the opportunities that lie there to get rid of common tasks – joint tasks I believe this government is engaged in. We could do the problems that we see are ready to be done with. That is why, in the Christian People's Party, we have proposed in our stimulation package that we go directly into exactly the common sectors that we are talking about here, and we hope that the package Government is gradually coming along can approach its content. A period seemed, frankly, as if the precautionary principle – which I believe, for example. The Minister of Development is very concerned — was made a criminal offence by this government: it has been waiting too long to respond to the developments we have seen around us. However, through the exchange of letters – which in a historical context must be interesting to study – between Committee Chairman Sandal and Finance Minister Halvorsen, there are now warnings of measures, not now, in the budget we are to adopt for 2009, but once in the New Year, perhaps in February. Indeed, these measures have a long way to go from the drawers of the department until they can be put to work. However, the content is good – it is similar to the confusion of the package for which it is possible to vote in the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, which is due to vote here later today. But there's one exception to our package in what you can suggest can be seen in the government's, and it's about the tax aggressors. They're stuck on – they're all going to stand as one. It may almost seem as if you have to have some sort of enemy image, and the government has found its own here. But this should not be the time to give negative signals to Norwegian businesses. We need an active ownership. We need family-owned businesses. They should be encouraged – they should not be punished. There should now be an opportunity for the Government to provide business with good incentives such as increased depreciation rates — it was a fancase for SV before the last elections — and a write-down of inheritance taxes on generational change in family businesses, all in order to ensure good ownership, which can help to secure existing jobs and create new ones. Regardless of the package of measures, there is an absolute need for changes to the budget submitted. Family policy simply takes a step back. For the many thousands of parental deaths in which father cannot earn the right to papacy, the common leave period is reduced – I repeat, reduced – by two weeks. If you had some kind of trustworthiness in family policy, the order had to be a completely different one. Point 1: Let all fathers have their own right of access. Point 2: Increase Paper Commission. It would be a family-friendly policy. The opposite is now being proposed. In our alternative budget, we also have an active family policy in other areas. In particular, we recognise parental freedom of choice by strengthening contact support and providing adequate childcare facilities. We want cheaper kindergartens for those who can afford the worst. In fact, developments show that they have had an increase in their nursery expenditure over the last two to three years. We want to improve quality in kindergarten and improve working conditions for private kindergartens. We also want a sharp increase in birth money to offset the discrimination that is taking place today. In the school sector, we propose an alternative device. We want more teachers, not more hours without teachers. We want a strong commitment to high school. A contribution to business would be to reduce the employer’s pay for apprentices. In our budget, we are also strengthening volunteering. We want a VAT compensation and strengthen free funds, which is a good arrangement. We don't want at least a more humane care where the user – not the system – is put in the center. Unfortunately, the tendering regime that this government is currently running is making sure to roll over one institution after another. Then we want a forward-looking charging policy that contributes to environmentally friendly and health-promoting behaviour. We hope that the budget's decision can contribute to this later today. The number time doesn't allow me to mention that much more. We welcome the aid effort, but we should like it to be more poverty-oriented. It's a paradox that you, for example. Cuts in the appropriations for the UN Food Programme and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. In conclusion, we in the Christian People's Party are prepared to join when the new package comes, to help the unemployed to get into work and to counteract the growing unemployment that is now taking place. With this I address our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e811	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e816	Having heard the introduction to the Christian People's Party representative, Syversen, I need to remember that what we have seen in the autumn is a monetary crisis, which has been met with monetary policy instruments. In this way, the government has shown its power of action, with which all parties involved are very pleased. Now we see the outlines of how it turns out a more critical real economic situation. The government has warned measures against it, and they're coming. My question is first and foremost that the Christian People's Party has spoken warmly about cooperation with the increased unemployment. The Christian People's Party is firmly planted in the centre of Norwegian politics, and the right-hand side has a different economic policy than the left-hand side. It is absolutely legitimate that it is that way. But it's hard to enter into a broad settlement. Even more difficult it becomes to think of cooperation when the opposition parties are as fragmented in financial policy as they are. This is because the Advance Party spends NOK 31 billion more oil money. The left and right are on the same level as us, and the Christian People's Party spends SEK 4.8 billion. How does the Christian People's Party view such cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e823	First, I have to correct some of the reality description, because we've actually seen the estimate that the real economy is weakening for some time. As such, it has not only been a financial crisis. In fact, we believe from the Christian People's Party that the Government has been in deficit and has not helped to counteract the failure of the real economy that has emerged in the last few weeks, as in particular. will contribute to increased leave and perhaps more leave than is necessary if measures are put in place in time. On the issue of cooperation, we are going into it if we can contribute constructively to a possible solution of cooperation with the Government that can ensure that the unemployed come into work. Then we'll see if the government is willing to listen. It hasn't been. At least we are prepared on our part to contribute, so that the country's economy becomes as strong as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e830	During this period, the government has closed a large number of gaps in the tax system that have previously given rich people the opportunity to avoid paying taxes. It's an important prerequisite for most people to think it's okay to pay taxes. An important part of this work is the proposal to abolish the so-called 80 % rule, which provides the richest lower taxes on wealth than ordinary people. The hundreds of people with the highest wealth saved 400 million. kr on this in 2006. An overall opposition is opposed to this and seems to believe that the very richest are the group that needs to be helped most in the context of the financial crisis. The Christian People's Party will properly reconsider this on 1 July. I would nevertheless ask the representative Syversen to explain to me why the Christian People's Party believes that, in today's serious situation, with initial unemployment, high interest rates and debt problems, it is necessary to give the hundreds of people with the highest wealth, a tax relief of 400 million. kr. Isn't there anyone else who could need this money anymore?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e837	I want to start from a company that I think Lund Bergo is familiar with, namely Fjärdingstad Trevarefabrik AS, which is located in his home country. That factory I have visited, and it is one of the factories affected by the scheme presented by the Government. Of course, you can theorize as to who serves, and who does not serve, on the government’s proposal. My point, however, and the Christian People's Party's point, is that in the situation we're in now, it's not time to give negative signals to business. Now we really need to work together to create more jobs and secure the jobs we have. Then I would like to ask the representative Lund Bergo to give away the envy he has now taken on board in his post, and rather be concerned that together we can help to strengthen the business and make sure that there is work to as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e846	I have great respect for the representative Syversen. He stands out for people as a mild representative in his speech, but today he has a strong characteristic. He says that there is a budget that is 'out of date'. It is obvious that it is necessary to adjust the reality of the Norwegian and international economy. It's happening, and it's going to happen even more. The government is coming up with planned changes, and the Christian People's Party has presented a package of measures to make the budget more expansive. It's a course that I think has a broad understanding of the government. My question, however, is: Will the Christian People's Party now hold on to that course, or will a fall for the temptation to bet on greater tax havens for private individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e855	I'll take it as a compliment that the representative Lundtigen thinks I'm mild. I guess that means that if you say something that gives a little bit of attention, it might be listened to to to some other degree than the other way around. When I believe that it is out of date, I also believe that the government now admits it itself. In the letter sent by the Minister of Finance to the Grand Duchy, it is said indirectly that the basis on which the budget was based is simply not sustainable. We saw that quite early after the budget was presented. And the representative Lundtigen knows just as well as I do that both the Norwegian Bank, the OECD and the SSB – largely an overall economic environment – have stated that the forecasts do not meet targets. Hopefully, when we're going to work together to strengthen the Norwegian economy, our goal is to strengthen the economy and make sure that the available hands come to work. That would also provide a basis for agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e868	In view of the criticism the representative Syversen now comes with against the Government, it might be very interesting to hear what he thinks about his expected future partner in a possible new government, namely the Right, Right Budget. What we're seeing now is that the opposition is cracking more than it's ever done before. The Christian People's Party has either abandoned the Economic Policy of the Right or adapted to the Advancement Party. They have been out there and told me who they can't go to government with. It is the Progress Party, it is the parties who want an EU debate and the parties who want to cut the aid budget. It could also be interesting to hear what the representative Syversen really thinks Christian People's Party should do, and what they want in a new government, instead of saying what they won't do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e881	It's very simple. Firstly, we are presenting our alternative budget as the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party. We don't need to scale to either right or left in this situation. We have put forward a budget that we believe, with all due respect, is better suited to the challenges facing the Norwegian economy and the country than the budget presented by the Government. I think it might also be better than the alternative budgets of the other parties. Based on that, our first goal is now to contribute to getting a budget in port. And even if our package of measures is not now adopted, it may come in a different form during January/February – at least it points to that from the Government. I think we're going to work on it now, and then we can rather take collaboration constellations after the next election on another occasion. I don't think that's what most people are concerned about right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e888	The seven also say that the government's budget has expired. In the economic situation we're in now, it's very difficult to capture what's actually going to happen tomorrow or next week. When the representative is so rude about criticising the Government, who has actually come with several package of measures, to which the Christian People's Party has joined after the Government has presented them, and when he now criticizes the Government for waiting and seeing what measures are needed to get the wheels going, my question about the Christian People's Party is that their budget is properly dated.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e896	Firstly, I have to correct again: what the government has presented has been packages. If we talk about the bank package, it was presented to make sure that cash became available to the banks. You didn't have a direct real economic situation in mind. This was done to help boost financial systems. No real economic package has been provided. That is what I see in the letter that the Minister of Finance sent to Stortinget yesterday. We've already included it in our budget. But then the representative asks Klungland if that's enough. We cannot know that, because, as the representative Klungland himself said, here we must follow developments from day to day. And we are prepared to help ensure that the instruments that are needed to be used are actually put into practice. But it is incomprehensible to me that the government waited until yesterday to inform me that there was anything that was necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e901	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e904	The financial crisis shows that the world has allowed the speculative economy to grow strongly. Responsible managers forgot that the financial sector would only be quiet and not the whole construction work. Now the world needs a new economic order where deregulation is replaced by regulation, release of control and consumption of long-term management. Thatchers and Reagan's market liberalism was an experiment. This economic experiment is now going bankrupt worldwide. In the United States, the social wheels have gone around by the fact that the country, the state and people have based their consumption on borrowed money, and not on what they have earned and saved. The system has been lubricated by legislation that has allowed banks and financial institutions to put nation, business and people into deep debt. Now the bubble's cracked, and people are losing their homes and jobs all over the world. Krisa develops every day, including in Norway. What we learn from what happens is crucial to the solution. The longer-term solution to the crisis cannot be the same medicine as that strongly contributed to the crisis, namely increased private consumption. The big loss of export finance and the Terra affair with the liquidation of Terra Securities was a strong warning. Risks arise when economic growth is not based on the production of actual values. Banks and financial institutions have also been good sellers in Norway, and the critics have either been overcrowded or accused of destroying the loan and buy-in party. The actual appreciation of our dwellings has been far less than what it has cost to buy them. Senses of reasonable initial start-ups have felt compelled to go beyond their own health in order to enter the housing market. The 2009 government budget is modestly expansive on the basis of its time assumptions. The Government is now adjusting the budget in a regular manner, which will provide greater security for work and business. Adjustments that provide a much more expansive financial policy, interest rate reduction and a banking system that functions more normally are the line of the Centre Party. In this work, we must keep the necessary long-term transformation work in the Norwegian economy in focus: from stimulating private consumption to facilitating modern production life based on our comparative advantage, natural resources and a well-trained population. There is a need for a pool of forces to promote societal and sustainable management, people's jobs and a sustainable private economy. This is achieved by investing massively in the development of infrastructure and maintenance of roads, railways and ports and by upgrading public buildings such as schools, hospitals and churches. We need to build production jobs with long value chains and the processing of our huge natural resources. We need to invest in renewable energy, such as sea windmills, geothermal technology and construction of chemical plants based on timber, so that we can get biofuels that way. We need to focus on voluntary organisations that link strong communities in local communities, and education in production professions with broad knowledge. The centre lot stands as a base-mounted trailer of private ownership of housing and means of production. But this ownership is closely linked to obligations and distributed among people so that the many, and not the few, own housing and means of production. This is an important pillar of the price that now needs to be staggered in order to get a business life based on greater equity and healthier and safer accounting rules. Business taxation must also promote this. Personal taxation must be based even more strongly on the principle of fiscal capacity. It gives justice and excitement to almost everyone. At the same time, the tax rules relating to wealth and inheritance must be designed in such a way that the means of production in the business, which individuals own entirely or through a holding, are taxed on the basis of the ability of the means of production to provide labour-free income in a very turbulent economic situation. In today’s situation a lot has changed, so detailed legislation for the calculation of wealth and inheritance tax must take account of the fact, in order to ensure the soundness of business. The centre party is a member of a market economy where supply and demand play a central role. Therefore, we need to have a thorough review of the functioning of the market economy. Without better competition rules, the market economy will continue to grow monopolies and speculation. Food formulated is healthy competition in our market economy a state product. It is this sobering philosophy of life, based on a Community thought, that can provide security for home and work in the future. The government's strengthening of the Husbank and the housing support scheme is a contribution to those who now need housing security. Families and individuals who are concerned now need to rely on their own common sense when making choices in the private economy, and people have to focus on feeding. The authorities shall then ensure that people can do their duty and require their rights. Now an active state with political leadership is needed that sees the need for a new policy course – aside from the theoretical market experiments and towards a strong commitment to a practical blending economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e925	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e928	I thought it was the old Lundtägen who swung from the pulpit today, who wants to end the shopping party, and who wants one to set a toast by food. Now that's what's already happening — private consumption is falling. Those who work in the trading sector are at risk of losing their jobs, and those who work in restaurants and cafes are also at risk of losing their jobs. That is why the Minister of Finance has also called for one not to stop shopping, and he has also been quoted as saying that one must ‘shop so it svir’ – one must stop shopping before it svirks, but one must keep it up so that one gets a circulation in the economy. Then is my question to the representative Lundtigen: Does Lundtigen want to distance himself a little from the Minister of Finance's invitation to shop – in today's situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e935	The Minister of Finance has said in a very good way that the statement ‘shop so that it cheats’ is not hers. Själlsag: VG had to have that title to get it sold that day. That being said, I would say to those who believe that the private consumption that we have had should continue: it is both wrong and totally unrealistic. But it is obvious that the fall in private consumption, as we now experience, can go too deep. That is why I am confident that economic policy will now be pursued in such a way as to reduce interest rates, and nothing will work better with respect to the necessary adjustments to private consumption than a slightly lower interest rate. However, interest policy must continue to be pursued in such a way as to save money and to be a certain cost of borrowing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e940	The representative Lundtigen and the Center Party are known to be concerned with the woes of small businesses and well, knowing that there are values created, and that's where people get work. The draft budget increases the tax burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. A stone is placed in the backpack, as the representative Kongshaug of the Left has said. The bar for small businesses is getting heavier. In the announced package of measures, the Government has identified one thing, and it is that at least tax reduction is not relevant. Is the representative of Lundtigen in agreement with, inter alia: NHO in that tax relief is a sensible tool to take care of jobs in a difficult time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e947	Here we have to distinguish between the business tax and the personal tax. In the field of industrial taxation, the State budget represents a relief. For personal taxation, there is a redistribution of taxes and taxes between taxpayers. It is not correct that, in general, managers will be subject to increased taxation. That being said, the main point of my contribution in terms of business taxation was that the detailed rules to be laid down in terms of wealth and inheritance tax must take account of the current risk and situation, such as: must mean that the interest to be used for capitalisation is set at a higher rate today than would have been done a few months ago. As a result, property values are lower.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e955	Lundtigen la, among others emphasising the importance of exploiting our natural resources. The Christian People's Party is in complete agreement. Therefore, we are also concerned that we should have an active and comprehensive agriculture in all parts of the country. Now, in recent years, agriculture has experienced a total investment dryness in operating buildings. There are several reasons for that. One of the reasons is the high cost level, but as the pressure in construction is now being replaced by a high level of unemployment, this will probably change. In the Christian People's Party's package of measures, we are advised to increase the depreciation rates on operating buildings from 4 pst. to 6 pst. We have also suggested that the farmers should be able to apply for funds from municipal food funds in line with industry or else. Together with a lower cost level, this would be a great opportunity for agriculture. The question is: When the Government sidestepped its own package of measures, will Lundteg support these proposals from the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e966	In the case of agriculture and in the case of building activity, it is wrong that there has been an investment drought. What is right is that investment is concentrated in a few units that have invested a lot, so that a very vulnerable situation has now arisen. We need to learn from that. But to the concrete point, the depreciation rates on buildings: what is the Government's line is that depreciation rates should be such that the tax depreciation rates are in line with the impairments and actual depreciations in production. In that light, it is right to go in the direction of increasing depreciation on barley, because current tax depreciation is much lower than the actual impairment. That adjustment is necessary to take a closer look at, together with other adjustments. We also have a number of examples that tax depreciation is greater than actual impairment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e973	I believe the Left and the Centre agree that a balanced mixed economy and a strong public sector are important for meeting difficult times – it will stabilise and reduce problems. I also think we agree that family-run businesses, a long-term private ownership of businesses as we know it in Norway, also seem stabilizing in the face of short-term turbocapitalism. This is why it is so strange to see the two tax scarfs proposed by the Government: an increase in the employer’s tax, which affects family-led enterprises when there is a generation change, and an increase in wealth tax, which affects private ownership. In this context, it is not possible to distinguish between private and other taxes on production, because it has to be paid with withdrawals from enterprises, which means that the family-run enterprises will have a cost that non-family enterprises will not receive, and private Norwegian ownership will receive a property tax that foreign ownership will not receive. Are these two proposals central party policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e980	First, I would like to say that the tax-by-capacity principle now needs to be reinforced. Its higher income, the higher the tax capacity you have. Furthermore, it is quite obvious that you also need to have taxes on accumulated values. The answer of the centre party to that is property taxes, not property taxes. The form of taxes on wealth must be such that there is an extra tax on non-workable income in excess of a certain amount. The detailed presentation of taxes on wealth must take account of the ability of property to generate income. Today, we see that a number of property items related to production life do not provide the income they did a short time ago. It must be reflected in the detailed rules and therefore taken into account in the general principle of taxation. I am sure that it will be taken care of in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e989	The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government wishes to ‘stable and competitive business tax framework’. That's good. Furthermore, it is stated in the Soria-Moria Declaration that the Government will ‘change taxes which are a disadvantage for Norwegian manufacturing workplaces in competition with imports, inter alia.’. On the contrary, we now see that the Government is doing the opposite. I am thinking in particular of the Government's proposal for a fee increase of more than 60 pst. for non-alcoholic beverages. It will clearly contribute to distortions of competition, increase border trade and jeopardize Norwegian jobs, such as: Aass Brewery in Buskerud. Doesn't the representative Lundtigen agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1000	No, I don't agree with that. The government and the central party are aware that there are restrictions on what charging policy we can lead here to land in relation to what is outside charge and price level. However, it is quite obvious that it is now right to increase the fees for the type of beverages mentioned by the representative, which have been heavily added to sugar. So we can use the charges in a health policy context. Diabetes and other diseases related to this are one of our major challenges, and therefore, it is high time we got that tax change, so that we can get a healthier drinking culture in Norway, among other things. based more on water.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1007	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1010	When the Minister of Finance presented the budget seven weeks ago, I stated, as a first reaction from this speaker, that under such great uncertainty no one should be unsure that they had the right figures or the right means, too much would happen the next days and weeks during the budgetary procedure. I appealed, not least, to the Government and the majority: put aside some kepphester and perhaps a little pride in having thought the right thoughts the first time you put together a budget, and be open to something different from what we traditionally have. I have noticed that later on, more in the opposition have also expressed something of the same thing. Then we've got a different budget harvest, but not as I thought. In fact, there was a budget harvest where the majority of the Committee during the budgetary procedure has held up its prospects for growth in 2009, forecasts for unemployment in 2009, for oil prices, etc., even though we have asked and asked: is it not the case that there is a need to gradually base other assumptions? Everyone seems to mean it — countries outside us and different environments in the Norwegian social debate. So the government has chosen to hold on by saying, that's what we've said. One has in a way used its majority to decide that wrong numbers should be right, dot – I had almost said until the balloon cracked one day before this financial debate, because the committee leader thought it was enough. He sent a letter, and thus the redeeming: here is probably the crisis much bigger, the disease, the diagnosis much more serious than what the government has been doubting in all these weeks. It would have been right for me by the government if you hadn't had better numbers, to say quite clearly, in writing, to the Stortinget that there would probably be a lot worse numbers, there would certainly be a lot worse numbers, for growth and unemployment – but it's so uncertain and so changing times that it's difficult to come up with other numbers that we can say are better, because the disease is much more serious. It had created a completely different respect for the work to be done, from all, I think. It should not, in my opinion, have led to any expenditure bonuses, money use or other things in the committee's work. Rather, on the contrary, it should be fully possible to maintain a completely different realism in the assumptions of the budget, and at the same time to say that the jobs are no. 1, 2 and 3 are still lower rates – because it is my opinion that it should be – and are on a tight budget. I do not believe that a consequence of other and more realistic figures should have been that one should have increased the expenditure side in the budget to put under pressure the interest rate drop we should expect. There I disagree with other parties in the opposition. Then, during this budgetary procedure, there has been a lot of talk about there being different forms of conciliation, budgetary settlement, crisis settlement, etc. I haven't been of those who have used these words. Let me say it this way: I should also like to have had a majority vote in favour of the Left's policy, that's not what I mean, but I'm not so naive that I think the majority in the United Kingdom would have put aside to adopt the alternative budget that the Left has put forward. But I think it would be right to have a dialogue about the assumptions, how it might be, maybe listen to different ideas and angles of ideas about how to meet these challenges, in such an uncertain time. At least it's a little strange, in a situation where very much indicates that we're going to meet the autumn elections with higher unemployment than anyone else has anticipated – and with increasing unemployment at the time – that the government and government parties, the majority, have not used, so to speak, the invitation from the opposition, the minority, to take ownership of the difficult times. Then they could say later during the budget year that they were involved – they had an opportunity to influence, but they did not make any recordings when they had an opportunity and could thus put themselves in a different situation. So they didn't choose that. I think that is the basis for, at this point in time and in this debate, to remind you of the somewhat silent drama that is now taking place in the Norwegian economy. Then I don't think first and foremost of the big newspaper essays that we've got around Hydro's squeaky plans at Karmøy, etc., which always give a lot of attention, but of the silent decisions around the Norwegian boardrooms and among Norwegian company owners. It's about stepping down, moving out of the country, permitting — the next few weeks and months — that doesn't give newspaper headlines, but that's going to sum up to quite catastrophic conditions, I fear, in the Norwegian economy. What does one do in these times? Norway may have Europe’s most open economy, which depends on expanding and low-buying markets outside Norway. There is little that can do in Norwegian policies to keep demand up in markets far away from Norway. The small thing to do, I think the government has done by strengthening GIEK and Export Finance, which also makes it possible to have competitive financing of exports. I fear that this is a small contribution in a large context. What we can do is take action in the domestic economy, to compensate something, not everything, of that deterioration in demand for the Norwegian economy from outside. This can be done through government expenditure. There are examples of some who do so to a formidable extent in their alternative budgets. I think it's wrong one-sided to focus on it. You can do it with tax relief, and thus one-sidedly stimulate private increased demand. I'm also not sure that this is the most appropriate tool right now. I am absolutely sure that lower interest rates in the next few months are the most important instrument. I think we should have expectations of at least two interest reductions before Christmas from Norway's Bank, and that we who have loans should get at least one letter from the bank with notice of interest reductions on our loans before Christmas. It seems beneficial and sensible for those who have the least money, and have to borrow money. The advantage of this is that it works both in the public and in the private sector. 1 pst. The lower interest rate is $1 billion more for municipalities. Then we understand the importance of interest rate reductions around the whole economy. It should stimulate people to have normal behaviour and do what they intend to do, including in 2009. The finance minister should afford to buy new skis, as she announced yesterday that she needed. Anyone planning to clean up the bathroom or kitchen in 2009 and otherwise having their usual income should continue to do so. That's important, and the interest rate is probably the most important contribution to doing it. If interest rates do not work well enough in such a direction, then – and I hope the Government does not shut it down altogether – a reasonable, prudent tax relief, like the lowest incomes, can be an important contribution to helping interest rates to keep a normal behaviour in 2009, in order to reduce crisis effects. I should have had several more minutes to go through and frame up the entire alternative budget of the Left. I don't have time for that, but I still want to focus on some important issues. There are known sizes, there are no very new jumps and jumps in different directions. Left wants to be a predictable party, we want to be a party focused on the future. It is about innovative environmental and climate-friendly businesses, it is about environmentally friendly transport, it is about large-scale research efforts and targeted poverty reduction among children and young people. We've been known for that in the past, and I'm absolutely sure that in a time of upsurge, as a time of crisis, it's having a future of research, environmental and climate-friendly solutions and technology even more accurate than it is in very good times. Crisis is an outbreak – crisis is a time to leave something to have something new to go to, and it is the formidable bet of the Left on not least research. In an uncertain time, there is one thing that is bombproof: that gaining new knowledge through research that can provide the basis for new businesses and new ways to solve the challenges, not least in the climate and environment sectors, is the safest thing to do. That is why the Left has the strongest budget for research on what is being presented for consideration today. Finally, we also have a number of document proposals for consideration, and I am the case rapporteur for one of them, to strengthen the tax FUNN system. I am pleased that an overall opposition wants to strengthen the TaxFUNN scheme, which is just helping to invest in the new businesses, new products and new opportunities at a time when it is needed and where the old products lose markets. I'm sorry that the government parties and the majority have not seen an opportunity to invest even more in this positive arrangement in these times. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Left will address in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1042	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1047	The representative Sponheim talks about sickness and diagnosis when he talks about the financial crisis, and the Left actually calls its alternative budget for the right medicine at the right time. The left proposes to cut down 1 250 ordinary action sites, to remove export subsidies for cheese and agricultural products, to increase the interest rate in the Husbank, to remove the free quota of CO2 for Norwegian industry, and to remove the net wage system that means that we have Norwegian seafarers. The left proposes to increase the diesel tax, to increase the fuel oil tax, to cut primary school, to cut free upper secondary education and to wind up the system of fruit and vegetables in school. Does the Left really think that this is the right medicine at the right time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1057	Yeah, it's the right medicine at the right time. The left is a party that's capable of financing what we think is right to do, and we've funded $5 billion in a new investment. Research is obviously the largest field of activity, a better industrial policy in one set of important areas is another, over DKK 1 billion more for transport, not least environmentally friendly transport, is a third relationship, and DKK 1 billion for poverty reduction among children and families with children is a fourth example. It takes money. All of this is forward-looking and gives new activity, not least research and nutrition. Then the left is actually able to pick away some of the old structures to bet on the new ones. One could have spent oil money and put 5 billion kroner on it, and there are others here in the hall. It wouldn't have given us the low interest rate that we need now. That's why we've chosen to fund it. Therefore, we have chosen to be honest that this has some cost pages that we consider necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1065	The root of our whole ideology is the idea that we should constantly distribute to create a more equal society, a more even economic society, because the distribution of the economy is the distribution of power and influence in society and gives the opportunity to rule over their own lives. That's why we have a policy of distribution when we increase the taxes of the people who inherit the greatest wealth, and increase the taxes of those who own the greatest wealth, while at the same time we spend the money on giving tax relief to most, those who have little wealth, and those who have less inheritance. The left believes, I've got it, that this is bad grip in relation to the company's situation right now. But if it is the case that one is primarily concerned with removing this grip, why could one not on the left propose other distribution policy measures that are as good and that provide for the same distribution as we are engaged in? I can't understand anything but that the Left is not concerned with distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1072	The representative loves to use the expression ‘the peoples’. Yeah, it's part of the "peoples" who own businesses, small businesses and larger businesses, that's been going very well in the last few years. Everything they have of wealth is in the companies, everything they make of money, let them be withheld profits in the companies because they want to build community, because they want to build businesses and want to add people, so Holmås can boast of very low unemployment – and I'm glad that he can do it. It's 'the peoples'. They're not the richest of us to flake, they're the ones that don't make big profits or live extravagantly, but they run businesses and choose to leave the money in the companies. That's why the government is doing, so wrong, and it's so wrong psychology right now not to give these "people" a pat on their shoulders, but to punish them. Otherwise, the focus is on knowledge, education for many, equal opportunities for education, the best distribution you can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1079	It was a mild, atoning, and the closest sought-after Sponheim who spoke here today. That's what I think is sympathetic. Much of what Sponheim said is things that the Center Party can put itself behind. I also hope that Sponheim noticed the openings we presented to the challenges of inheritance and wealth taxation in relation to the concrete design of how this should work. I also noticed in a TV debate yesterday that Sponheim invited to and almost was constructive for a continued tax debate for Norwegian business. That's something I hope we can also talk about in the future. What I'm going to ask about was the heavy emphasis left they claim to have on climate and the environment. We see in the budget that the Left is the strongest opponent of the Government's forest policy. It is designed to increase the extraction of Norwegian forests. The solution to the climate problem lies in increased extraction of biological matter, whether for energy or other purposes. Nevertheless, we experience that the Left cutter 70 million. kr i i what is needed to increase the take-off. How is it rhyme with a forward-looking transition in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1088	Let me first say that I am pleased with the invitation from the Central Party in the government to moderate the worst rashes. I realized very well what was said, that someone would look at the valuation or the basis for calculating the property tax and inheritance tax. I think the worst results here can have quite dramatic consequences, which I'm sure the Center Party doesn't want, because we share the wish and see the value of having the stable, long-term, private ownership that that kind of ownership represents. Then I want to be quite clear – it's the whole offensive climate action of the Left with the transition from red to green taxation and bet on new technology, etc. – the challenges in the climate are linked to the need for fossil emissions to be reduced and replaced by other means for energy carriers. Then these calculations of bonding in forests or growing biomass become sidings that make it possible otherwise to reduce fossil emissions less. It's really great that it's bound in the woods. It's always the way growing biomass binds CO2, but it doesn't solve the problem that we have to reduce fossil energy use.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1098	The left has wanted and demanded a settlement with the government parties, but at the same time, the left is very busy not using more oil money than what the government is using. It also underlined the representative Sponheim in his answer to the question from the representative of Klungland. So it's like the Christian People's Party is adding over $4 billion to the budget, and the Advance Party is adding up to $30 billion. These are then three very different approaches to economic policy. Then I wonder, had it been an advantage for a possible settlement with the government parties that the opposition agreed on economic policy before they came to us? Finally, the representative, Sponheim, has previously called for an emergency budget when we have discussed the budget. Nevertheless, the Left does not significantly change the frames of the Government's proposal. What does the Left really mean by a crisis budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1107	I have – and as I stated in my article – no intention at any time that the Government should put its own majority behind the budget to be adopted today, and then zero out policies and create some sort of common least multiple of accounting. I never meant that. It's about politics. But I think it is important at a time of crisis, when there is a crisis to communicate, that one has a dialogue, that one listens to each other's arguments, and that one tries to give everyone ownership of the slightly difficult decisions to take in the future. That's the possibility the government has had, and I think they could have responded better. I have earlier from this pulpit stated that the jobs are no. 1 and 2 in this situation is to bring down the interest rate. That is where I fully agree with the Government. Then, if I had the chance, I would argue strongly that now it is also important for psychological reasons to take good care of the businesses. This will mean that they want to spend some of their savings and earned money on keeping their employees, launching training programmes, and not doing what they experience as punishment, putting people on the streets.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1114	The representative Sponheim was central to monetary policy. The representative said that it is necessary to pursue a monetary policy that is adapted to the economic situation in Norway and that, in the present situation, a monetary policy must be implemented that provides a basis for a lower interest rate, as supported by the Central Party. At the same time, the Norwegian economy is organised differently, with exports different from those of the central countries of the rest of Europe. Does the representative of Sponheim’s strong emphasis on our monetary policy mean that there will also be a central argument that the Left is still a member of a Norway outside the EU, so as to avoid a common monetary policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1121	It was a big question in one minute. But let me start by saying that the Left is a member of a monetary policy that allows us to get the lowest interest rate in the current situation, and a budgetary decision and a fiscal policy, among other things. by decision-making today, which underpins monetary policy. That's what I'm experiencing, and it's very good. So in Norway we now have higher interest rates than very many of our competitors. That's why there's something strange or something unusual about the fact that we have the weak dollar rate that we have. It should have been interesting for many more people to own Norwegian kroner and thus contribute to keeping a stronger price than the one we now have. It's probably related to the fact that in as difficult times as we have now, being a small currency in the world is quite demanding. It is somewhat irrational what is now happening with Norwegian kroner, which is a little inexplicable. So what's happening right now is probably not an argument for not having its currency in a safer port than what we have now. I have to say that my opposition to the European Union has been linked to completely different political conditions. I would like to see a safer frame around the Norwegian kroner just in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1128	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1131	What kind of budget has the Government actually submitted for 2009? It's a budget where we spend more oil money than we've done in many years, because we saw that growth was going to be lower in 2009 than it has been in the years we've been behind. It is a budget that is just responding to a situation of lower growth and increasing unemployment. Therefore, the budget currently under consideration is not on a collision course with what is our challenge in the future. What is the question is: Is medicine strong enough in relation to how the financial crisis can affect the labour market first and foremost? Before the budget was presented, there was a lot of advice. I got e.g. Council meeting of the former Minister for Finance, Per-Kristian Foss, in the Newspaper of the Day on 16 September. There he was asked, ‘Shouldn’t more money be spent now to stimulate growth?’ He replied, ‘No, you’ve been driving extensively in the last two years, so now you have to be careful.’ Two days before the budget was presented, 5 October, both Sponheim and Sanner were out and had a wish for what the 2009 budget would look like. Sponheim said: ‘It is not useful to argue with increased use of money in order to obtain any increase in the unemployment rate in the pre-purchase. This is not going to be a tight budget." Sanner said, "And now economic uncertainty requires a tight budget that cannot be reconciled with billions of all these promises." A tight budget had been a budget of more than 14 billion dollars less in this budget. A neutral budget, which was also required, would be in the order of 12 to 14 billion dollars less than what is here. We haven't presented it. We have put forward an expansive budget because we knew that unemployment was going to increase. We knew that the growth was going to be lower. So this budget is going in the right direction in relation to the challenges we're facing. However, there is considerable uncertainty about how the financial crisis is going to impact on the labour market, and therefore it is important to focus on solving the problems that are most important first. That is what has been our task in connection with this crisis. I could also bother a couple of professors, some lead writers and some commentators in the papers with what they said on September 15th, September 16th or October 5th. But we don't have time for that in these times, because we have a very demanding situation ahead of us. There is no doubt that we are now witnessing a financial crisis that, as a financial crisis, is more serious than in the 1930s. But the impact on the real economy is different than in the 1930s, because we're not letting the market run without state intervention, because we've learned a lot, and Keynes and counter-cyclical policies have come gradually, and because we distribute more fairly. What has been clear – and it has been clear for over a year – is that there was a financial crisis going on. It was due – and I don't need much time on the analysis – to starting in the United States with loans to people who didn't know how to service the debts they incurred, with rotten loans being repacked, sent on. As a result, there was a significant degree of uncertainty and insolventity throughout the financial system. What really accelerated when the Lehman Brothers went over the end of September 15th was how the financial markets work. When the financial markets stop, and the banks stop borrowing money to each other, and they stop borrowing money to businesses, you get in a situation where normal economic activity is threatened. Although we have solid banks, although Norwegian financial institutions were not exposed to these US loans, the financial crisis also stopped the cash flows with us. That was problem No. 1 that had to be solved. Banks didn't lend money to each other, they didn't lend money to businesses. A lot of people suddenly learned what was the difference between a government interest rate and a money market rate. All of this was evidence of financial markets that did not work. That's what has had full focus with us, from the problem started and to this day, and it must also have gone on in the future, because we can't say that this market is now in order. But what we can say is that if we don't get it right, the impact on the real economy, i.e. jobs and businesses, will be significant, and no fiscal packages or budget appropriations will be able to offset the major problems it could cause. I'm going to come back to how we have to look at fiscal policy in the context. What is now the situation is that many companies, export companies, alert permits. Many are uncertain about what the future market will bring. The world market demand is much less than it has done during our strong economic boom, and at the top of it, there have been considerable financing problems. That's why it's been focused, and our slogan has been: solve the problems as they occur, there's a lot of uncertainty about where they're coming next, find the right tool, dimensions it right and get going at the right time. That is why we have promoted the proposal for a bank package for Stortinget, and we have been able to endorse it – and I want to pay tribute to Stortinget who dealt with the bank package so quickly. The first auction was on Monday – with DKK 10 billion. We see that it has worked according to purpose. There'll be another 35 billion dollars before Christmas. In addition, Norway’s Bank operates with longer-term lending of fixed-rate loans. A round was completed yesterday. Many small banks have been able to make use of it. In addition, we have increased the lending framework for GIEK and for Innovation Norway. To this day, the solution was clear in relation to export financing, and it was presented by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry. So we've suggested a lot of packages. We have taken many steps, but we have to cover ourselves on several packages and several grips, because there are uncertain times. So to what's now the challenge is further. It's making these markets work and make the interest rate go down. We have succeeded in getting the interest rate down, and we have to expect it to go further down. Why are these things so important, as well as the functioning of financial markets? That's because people and businesses need to know what they're going to have to stick to. Now there are many who are not going to be directly affected by any financial crisis or real economic effects of it, which are nevertheless cautious and do not act as they would otherwise. To get them off the fence, they have to know that it's possible to finance what they're planning, and that the level of interest rates is at a level that allows them to operate the loan in the future. Of course, the budget and fiscal measures have also been prepared all along. What the government did and did yesterday was to alert the Storting about what is our timetable to assess the labour market situation, to provide us with a better overview and to analyse it and to put forward new fiscal measures. The budget for 2009 and all the alternative budgets for 2009 start to operate on 1 January 2009. There are a lot of measures to take advantage of the opportunities now offered by lower activity in the construction market to solve tasks that we would like to have solved, whether it be for the renovation of school buildings, churches, roads, construction of student housing or higher education buildings. All of this is in the package. It's just going on! The entire state budget is a huge package. The question is, what are we going to have in addition to that? It is also incredibly important in times of crisis to have fair distribution. There is no doubt that the first crisis management in the United States was delayed by the fact that ordinary people didn't like saving the big ones and leaving the small ones alone. Just in times of crisis, fair distribution and the payment of taxes by ability, part of the preparedness for crisis and part of the confidence in dealing with the challenges we are now facing, are in such a way that we lift up in flocks. What's absolutely certain is that in these times it's hard to make sure predictions. We may not be able to make sure forecasts in January either, as regards the strength of the measures we are going to come with. Of course, we like to hear suggestions and input from the opposition and from others, because now all the analyses are going to be based on what is actually happening in businesses and in the labour market. Our political course is determined by the proposals we make.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1170	There are many aspects of this financial crisis in which it is important to address. In many ways, the contribution to the Minister of Finance was an estimate of what has happened, and what one will focus on further. I'm not reassured, but it's not my job to be either. I am delighted to see which proposals actually come in February. However, I am disappointed that the important fiscal measures will have to wait until then. I have registered that the Minister of Finance has been involved in the retail trade, our shops, that the wheels should go around. In this respect, there are a good many people who say that they can't afford to make the investments, or act, as the Minister of Finance so sorely wants people to do the most. Then there are two possibilities. One is that prices are falling dramatically. We don't see any sign of that, and it can be a little bit of a politician's rule. The second is to give people the best economy. This can be done, among other things: make through tax relief. Does the Minister of Finance see the need to provide tax relief to ordinary people in order to get the wheels going, to get the retail trade going?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1177	I rejoice at the opportunity to be commented on, from the Parliament's pulpit, the title 'Shop saw it scurried!'. Those aren't my words. I don't think that either in economics or in economics, people are going to shop and it's going to suck. On the contrary, I believe that we should be sensible. Otherwise, it's very important how we're going to get out of the crisis we're facing. Those who have a solid economy, and who had not intended to do anything completely wild, but who perhaps had some plans to build a little on the cabin or do something else, should act normally, for it matters how much unemployment is going to be. In terms of distribution, there are many proposals for fair distribution in the State budget. On top of that, we've focused on the decline in interest rates because we know that some of the ones that were the most sluggish were sluggish because the level of interest rates was higher than what they had hoped for. They should have planned for it, but they hoped for something else. That's why we've made sure that we have room for a decline in interest rates. [[The President Clubs Again]] It comes and there are very important distribution policies in these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1186	The President will remind you that when the red lamp ceases to light, the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1189	We have a government that puts ideology in front of the workplaces. We know that there is now a package of wonder in an eight-week period. The only card the Minister of Finance has been willing to show is that companies that are now fighting to save jobs will get a higher tax bill. It's the outcome of a dogmatism that doesn't save a single job. The right is concerned that the measures must be balanced. This means that we are too much money on the way, for more money for the maintenance of municipal school buildings and other buildings, and today we are promoting proposals for better lay-off schemes for employees, in order to provide greater security for those who are now able to lose their jobs, but there must also be room to lower the tax for them with normal employee incomes. I have seen that the Prime Minister has written reading articles in the Business of Today, where he says that he will not exclude tax relief. My question is whether the Minister of Finance agrees that we need balanced action, with a focus on both construction, maintenance and roads, but also reduced taxes for people with normal wage incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1204	I really think the representative Sanner was liberating in a previous line change today. There he admitted that in recession or economic recession, the Right's resistance to property taxes and inheritance fees are constant. What is the government's starting point is that fair distribution is fixed. The grips we have taken on inheritance taxes and property taxes have benefited ordinary people in Norway. 400,000 people who paid taxes on wealth four years ago are now completely free to pay taxes on wealth. 500000 have received reduced taxes on wealth. It is because we have redeployed and sealed the gaps in property tax legislation that they have been able to use primarily with a lot of money. In the inheritance fee, we make a significant redistribution which means that 90–95 pst. are subject to a lower inheritance tax, among which there are many small holdings. What I can rule out is that we present tax proposals with an unfair and unsolvable distribution profile. But at these times there are no proposals that can be completely ruled out. As it looks now, I believe that the most current issue of a package of measures in January is further direct appropriations for the state budget. But these are uncertain times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1213	The Minister of Finance opened the speech with a question for himself: What kind of budget is the Government actually submitted for 2009? Towards the end came the answer: The budget is ‘a gigantic package’. My question is quite simply: when the Council of State still believes that the budget is completely flashy, most people who listen to it will believe in the Government when it says that unemployment in 2009 is 2.75 p.m., that is a marginal increase of 0.25 p.m., and that growth, still in the government's opinion, in 2009 is 1.9 p.m. ? Does the Government stand firm on these forecasts that form the basis of the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1222	I hope that the representative Syversen also stressed that I responded to what the budget contained. The most important thing in relation to the budget to which the majority of the Grand Duchy subscribes today is that it goes in the right direction. We knew what the main challenge was going to be. We knew that the growth was going to be lower -- remember, it was over 6 pst. in 2007 – in the 2009 budget. At the time we made the predictions, we thought it would be under 2 pst. It's quite obvious that next year's growth is going to be lower than 2 pst. How it will get into the labour market, which districts are most affected, which areas of the labour market are facing the greatest problems, and how to manage to set up any action in relation to problems in the private sector – many now have major difficulties in obtaining orders, or experience that orders they thought were being cancelled – is a major challenge. It's going to be hard to make good predictions. That's it now, and it's going to be in January too, but we know the direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1229	I'll follow up on what my good colleague Syversen asked for. The Minister of Finance is right. It is uncertain and difficult to make forecasts and assumptions for the budget at these times. The only thing that seems to be certain is that the two assumptions underlying this budget we are dealing with today, almost no increase in unemployment, i.e. 2.75 pst. on average for 2009 and a GDP growth of 1.9 pst. is wrong. It's not going to apply. I would like to have the Council of State's confirmation that we can ignore the fact that the two prerequisites are to be met, preferably with a "sorry" attached to it, because I'm going to be on that too. Then I would like the Minister of Finance, if we had known the forecasts now, to say that if there is a recession, and if there is a unemployment rate of 4 pst., like many tracks today, then there is still a job number. 1 to reduce interest rates before we take other measures. I would also like the Minister of Finance to confirm this, if necessary, and that it should not have led to an increase in money consumption per person. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1238	I noticed with interest the post that the representative Sponheim had. I think it was nuanced and balanced in relation to the challenges we are facing. The government and the Left agree that the challenge we have now tried to deal with at the end of this year is just to ensure that we have room for the decline in interest rates that can provide framework conditions for individual decisions in the housing market, which now have major challenges, or in relation to the challenges of businesses. It's important. Then it's obvious that the effects of the financial crisis on the labour market are stronger than we thought. Unemployment is going to be higher than envisaged in the State budget, and growth is going to be lower. But how much higher and how much lower and in which areas there will still be significant question marks. It is likely to be in January too, but then we have a better overview of how to take the measures correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1247	In these days, a growing number of enterprises in the construction sector are notifying mass redundancies. The last outside was Skanska, who announced on Tuesday that 800 employees in Norway would lose their jobs. Nav alerts today a strong increase in unemployment in general in November, and we need over five years back in time to find a corresponding growth in the number of unemployed in one month. For every person affected, it's a tragedy. At the same time, the country's costs are large in terms of unemployment benefits, loss of tax revenue and loss of employer's contribution. The Minister of Finance announced yesterday that there will be a package for unemployment in January/February. Why does the Government choose to look at developments for another two months when thousands of workers have already been outsourced, or have lost their jobs? What exactly is the Government wanting to look at? Does the Minister think that these who are now on leave or who have lost their job get the job back in December and January?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1254	The reason why we say that we are considering new measures at the end of January and at the beginning of February is that the Storting will adopt an expansive budget with many proposals already, in particular towards the construction industry, because we know that they are most exposed to cyclical fluctuations. Therefore, municipalities are already planning to upgrade school buildings and upgrade pools, churches, student housing and transport projects. That job is already in progress. What kind of strength we're going to add to it, we're going to have to evaluate it more closely. But then I just have to say one thing: in a boom the construction industry is growing, and it has grown over the last five years to new heights, maybe 190,000 employees are linked to this. A more normal level will be significantly lower than that. So what's the challenge now is to be able to get a very strong growth down to a more normal level, but without a sudden stop in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1262	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1265	For us in the Workers' Party, there is work for everyone, fair distribution and further development of the welfare society that governs politics. It is valid for periods of notice, and it is valid for periods of notice. These priorities go like a red thread through the policy that has been pursued in Norway since the change of government. These priorities also show us in the budget for the next year and in the measures taken by the Government to reduce the impact of the international financial crisis. We've given Norway a new course. We've got a fairer tax system, we've got measures for the poor, and we've had good social security. We've got a fairer distribution of resources in our society. International solidarity is also important. The appropriations for international aid and development have increased sharply over the past few years, and next year we will reach the target of 1pst. of our national income should go to the poor in the world. It's been a lot of effort to improve public services. Local authorities have received more money in recent years, and nearly 40,000 more have been added to municipalities. They work with care and care, in kindergartens and in school. Health rights have increased, and more and more people are receiving treatment in our hospitals. Transport has been given a significant boost after the government change. The same thing is true of the hallucinations of culture. The promise from the election campaign to spend the money on the important common tasks rather than on the tax havens is held. The debate so far has naturally been marked by the international financial crisis. No one today can say with certainty how this crisis will develop and how it will affect developments in this country. What is clear is that the situation is serious and that Norway too will become a framework. There are also some other things that are clear. The crisis will not solve itself. Policy measures are needed to stimulate the economy. State rescue packages are presented, even in the most liberal and market-oriented countries. Politicians and economists continue to claim that the market alone is the only freedom. The liberalist market economy and its adherents have received serious shots for the bow. The market does not reorganize anyway. Even those with the greatest fear of state are now calling for more states and more state measures. The crisis also shows that economies in different countries are colliding and that the transmission effect from country to country is high. Even countries that have kept order in their own economy will be framed. But it is also clear that countries will be affected differently. Different industrial structures and not least different social organisation have much to say about how different countries are affected by the crisis, and how this crisis affects ordinary people. A large public sector mitigates the effects of the crisis. The members of the public have safer jobs and are less delayed. But also public services such as hospitals, schools and kindergarten are important. The way we have organized society, people guarantee basic welfare if they are to be directly affected by the crisis. I'm glad these schemes are not part of the market economy. I am also pleased that we have good and safe social security schemes and offensive labour market measures. Countries that are in charge of their own economy are more well equipped to meet the decline in the world economy. We do not know how serious this crisis will affect Norway, as we have said today, but we know that Norway is stronger than most countries to deal with it. We've got the economy in order. We have a huge surplus on the trade balance. We have a huge surplus on the state budget. And we have big currency reserves. A large public sector can be used actively to dampen the decline. The state is a strong owner and business developer. We have a well-developed support apparatus and good and tried out systems that can be deployed to address the crisis in private industry, and the state can stimulate demand by investing in construction. The budget of the Government is offensive. It took over that the rise times were about to turn around. Because of pressures in the economy, one in recent years has spent less money in the budget than the rule of action alone was supposed to provide, so that an avoidable overstimulation of the economy in time rises. In the next year's budget, the government is adding to the record high use of oil money, $92 billion, to stimulate and increase demand in the economy. By increasing activity in the public sector and by means of a historic road and rail investment and a comprehensive programme of state and municipal construction activities, the budget is helping to keep the wheels going. In other words, the budget is a good starting point for meeting the challenges currently facing the Norwegian economy. However, as the government budget proposal also states, it is difficult to estimate developments internationally and for the Norwegian economy. We all know that the international economy has become worse lately, and that this affects developments in our country too. The government has followed developments closely and has taken several measures since the budget was presented, first a crisis package for the banks. Although Norwegian banks are isolated in solid terms, they became the framework of the international financial drought. A bank package of SEK 350 billion has now begun to work. The reactions from the banking industry have been positive, and instead of the sharp increase in interest rates, we have now had a fall in interest rates. The municipal bank has increased its lending framework by NOK 15-20 billion. This ensures the implementation of many local and important projects. Innovation Norway has expanded its framework, ensuring access to capital for many small and medium-sized enterprises around the country. GIEC has expanded its framework by DKK 50 billion, and the construction loan guarantee scheme for ships is increasing. This ensures an export-right business and the shipbuilding industry. Responses to these interventions have been very positive, and alerting cancellations and layoffs have been withdrawn as a result of the government's actions in this area. Today, it became clear that export finance is also growing rapidly in its framework. Another targeted measure to reduce the impact of the international crisis will be promoted. The measures taken by the Government are targeted, and they work. It is important to maintain employment and help business through a difficult period. Nevertheless, more measures are needed. The government has therefore announced that it will follow developments closely and take even more action if necessary. I think we have to assume that we are now in an extraordinary time, and that exceptional measures are necessary. Therefore, I must say that I am very surprised that the opposition today is critical that the Government announces that it will come back with new measures over the New Year if necessary. The opposition party has today been united in its criticism of the Government, but it is also about the only thing they have done to be a few. When we look closer to the opposition's alternative budget, we see that they crack in every direction. For example, add up to $30 billion more than the Right and Left options. And when we go in and we look at how these different parties use their budgets, we see that they crack pretty good. There are now demands to cooperate with the opposition. Well, I'll ask you, what does that mean? Does that mean that the proposal of 28 billion DKK of the Progress Party is to be the starting point for this cooperation? Or is it the Right cut in the aid that should be the starting point? Or is it perhaps the proposal of the Christian People's Party to increase the aid that is the starting point? The truth is, the opposition does not have a common setup of the budget. They also have no common demands or proposals for solutions to this crisis. It will be difficult to get a common arrangement with the government. I'm a big fan of cooperation and of getting common solutions, but then one has to be a few about what to solve. In this case, a first step for the opposition in order to achieve closer cooperation must be that a thing to work together, which they have not yet done in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1313	The representative Aksensen points out that work for everyone is an important matter for the Workers' Party. The paradox is that the representative Aksens is behind a budget which, according to the Minister of Finance, will increase unemployment. This happens, among other things: in the construction sector, where we are still reporting that there will be no capacity available. I'm sorry, of course. It's a shame for a lot of reasons. It is a pity for those who become unemployed, and it is a pity because of the ringing effects that it creates that one has to tighten up his private consumption, which then affects other professional groups who become unemployed. And of course, it's a shame because you can't use the capacity, for example. to build a road. My question is: Is the representative Akselsen satisfied with the state budget, or would he see that there was a little more money spent on, for example. road construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1320	I think the representative Hagesetter must have misunderstood today's situation altogether. It is not the state budget or the situation in Norway that is the main cause of unemployment around the world. It is because it has led us a failure policy around the world. It is not least that it is the political direction that Hageseter stands for – total liberalism, without political interference – that has primarily played down and that has led Norway to be affected by the situation in which we are. What the Government has put in its budget is to put in place concrete measures to counter the international financial crisis. I'm very happy about that. I am pleased that we have a government in Norway that is not reluctant to take state action, if that is the case, either to stimulate private business or to bring about a better public sector. That's what the budget for next year is adding up. This budget will help mitigate the damage caused by the international financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1327	The representative Akselsen boasted of the new course in business policy and said that the Workers' Party was occupied by jobs. Now it's the way things are going pretty hard in competitive business, and we're still getting messages about tough situations in, among other things. maritime industry and maritime business in Akselsen's own home country. This is how the government's industrial policy has been a disaster. The government has taken out NOK 21 billion of equity in Norwegian maritime companies. But of the 21 billion, the government promised that seven would stand back as accounting equity if they were used for environmental purposes. The government has not stood firm on that promise. This money has been taken out of equity because the government has not done its job with regard to the transitional arrangement for shipping tax. The right has therefore made proposals today to ask the Government to clean up and ensure that these seven environmental billions can remain as equity. My question is whether the Axis can assure that the Workers' Party will ensure that it does, at a time when many jobs are at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1334	Again, the current situation is a result of an international collapse in the demand for goods and services produced by Norwegian enterprises. The measures that the Government has now taken, including: with GIEK and Export Finance, be involved and counteract this. Of course, any proposals that are put forward at Stortinget should be considered, put us in and go through carefully, including this proposal. But our starting point is that we should now do what we can to ensure a good financing system, so that the activity, among other things. at our shipyards and in the maritime industry will be maintained. We have received exceptionally positive feedback on the measures taken by the Government during the last 14 days.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1341	The government has arranged for the construction of 1000 new hospitals and nursing homes next year. But the real need is far beyond this. Only in the case of demented persons is the need for 24 000 places by 2020, and in the case of mental health protection, the need is 2 700 in addition to that contained in the escalation plan. In the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party, we have proposed to provide incentives for the construction or conversion of 3,000 seats. This will provide better care for the elderly, and it will also include and ensure less unemployment in a vulnerable construction industry. The representative Aksensen spoke of us being in an extraordinary time, and that we must have extraordinary measures. My question is: does the representative agree that this is not an exceptional measure, but a good measure to include in the notified package of measures from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1350	Since we had a change of government in Norway, one of the most important measures for this government has been to provide municipalities with a better economy, so that they can offer their inhabitants better. Not least, it has turned out to be positive for the elderly — we now see almost 10,000 more people working to provide a better service to our health care institutions. It is also designed to build many new nursing homes. We have also had a broad cooperation at Stortinget to get an older package, and of course the government will follow it up. So I think we, when we're in the situation that we're in now, obviously have to evaluate all the suggestions, and if it's that there's a need to spend more money through the public sector, nobody in the Labour Party has anything to say that it also benefits the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1357	Workplaces depend on companies and employers, and then it is important to have a policy that gives business owners the feeling that they are being encouraged to stand on extra to avoid cancelling people who are at work, especially now that they are facing problems and lack of earnings. They need all the encouragement they can get. But the government says you're rich, and that's why there's going to be tax incentives. And these are the very businesses that we so sorely need now to ensure the well-being of the future. It may seem that the Government has as its own political objective the reduction of private ownership in Norwegian business. At yesterday's cartel conference on Gol, LO's leader, Roar Flåthen, called for increased public ownership and increased state procurement in companies where the country is already owned, as an important response to the financial crisis. Are there measures agreed between the Akssen and the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1365	It is not that taxation itself is a goal – it is a means of achieving other things, raising revenue to the state and contributing to a good distribution of resources in society and, in addition, affecting behaviour, such as one. have done through environmental taxes and other things. When it comes to an active substance, of course, a constant evaluation is required of their proper functioning. But of course, this government does not have a goal that large parts of our workforce should work in state enterprises, or that there should be a larger government section. What is nevertheless the question is whether, when we have adversities, when there is a lack of private capital, when the private shareholders will not act, we should use the possibility that the state has to keep the wheels going. In my opinion, it's again talking about using an instrument, not to achieve a goal that the state is going to get bigger, but to keep the business up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1370	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1373	I have never been to such an unreal budgetary procedure as we have in Stortinget today. While most of the contributions from this Parliament, including the Minister of Finance, are not budgetary matters, they are all the package of measures that will come and that have come to adjust the budget, which in no way can it be said to be adapted to the very serious situation facing Norway. Then I think it would have been constructive and honest if the government had been willing to admit it – admit that the forecasts underlying the budget are out of date, and were willing to make some corrections, or at least said that here there are so many failing assumptions that we have to expect a significant number of corrections in the time to come. In a very short time, we have received three package of measures from the Government. There are good action packages, packages that the Progress Party supports and is happy that the Government has promoted. Yesterday we were told that there would be another package, but only in the month change of January/February. Of course, we're going to applaud new measures from the Government that will help resolve the dramatic situation that we're in the middle of, but it's strange that the Government doesn't already come up with measures that could prevent the unemployment from getting bigger than it needs to be. Of course, the Prime Minister is quite right that we must expect increasing unemployment. However, when a party has ‘work for all’ as its leading slogan, it seems very strange that measures are not already being taken to prevent unemployment from exploding. All alerts are there, all signals have arrived, and yet the government says it will continue to monitor this situation and take action only in the month of January/February. We in the Progress Party will certainly support many of the measures that come, but what we fear is that it is too late. Therefore, it would have been much more constructive if, in today's debate, we had discussed an adjusted framework for the government budget for next year, because it would have contributed to giving a completely different optimism to a business that now seems to be terribly difficult. People, people who are afraid of losing their jobs, who have received permitting notices, had been sent completely different signals, so it would have been possible for this collapse to adopt changes that could work from December 1st. It would have been possible for us, if we had wanted it, for example, to decide that all taxpayers and pensioners would get zero tax in December. It would have been possible, if we had wanted to, to make changes to the VAT rate, the VAT rate or the depreciation rate, we could do something about the employer's fee, we could do something about the document fee. All of these areas would have helped to adjust the development that very many now fear. In addition, KS has reported that in the municipalities' drawers around the country, there are completed planned actions for a location between NOK 20 and 30 billion, which could be implemented almost tomorrow if there had been funding for it. That should have been the subject of this debate. Instead, I noticed that the Minister of Finance's posts were much more concerned with everything than the contents of the State budget; she limited herself to saying that this was a very expansive budget. I cannot believe that the Minister of Finance actually means that. It's very little in today's state budget that's expansive enough. Then I record that several speakers from the red-green parties, including the Olav Akselsen, have a reality description of the financial crisis that reveals a lack of knowledge that borders on the embarrassing. It is embarrassing to stand on this platform and claim that the cause of this financial crisis is market liberalism in free dressage. The truth is something quite different. The truth is that much of the cause of this global financial crisis lies in political mandates, political coercion to grant loans to people who do not have the willingness or ability to pay, loans that have been repacked and resold over time in new savings products and new forms of savings. It's a confession that I had hoped that the red-green parties too could come up, because then we would also have had a much more realistic debate. Then to the proposal of the Progress Party's tax proposals. 82 pst. If our proposals had been adopted, there would have been significant tax cuts by taxpayers, and therefore it would also have been reasonable if we could now take decisions on tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1388	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1391	I'm recording that Right is very busy having a responsible use of oil money. Nestleiar Sanner in Right has stated that his party shall be the guarantor of a responsible economic policy in any civil government in which the Progress Party will participate. From the financial setting we can read that there is a great deal of tension between the views of the Advance Party and the Right on this matter. The distance between the two lots is at least NOK 30 billion of oil revenue. My question to the leader of the Progress Party is therefore: Does the Advance Party accept the insurance from the Right for a responsible economic policy, as Mr Sanner has stressed? And in case the answer is negative, I'd like to right what kind of economic policy is right and the Progress Party is aiming to become a few about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1400	I have recorded that speakers from both the Red-Green parties and the Right in the course of this debate have gone back on their earlier opinions on the need for a tight budget for 2009. Now no one means it anymore. The only party that has stuck to the need for expansiveness in the budget is the Progress Party. The Progress Party has even received the honor of leading professional economists in order to have the budget that is best adapted to the economic situation for 2009. I'm very happy about that. Because we've been saying for a long time that it's not using oil money that's the problem, that's the way you use it. There are three important pillars of the economic policy of the Progress Party: one is tax relief for ordinary peoples and businesses; the other is to increase investment for infrastructure, which has been underfunded in Norway for many, many years, and which makes Norway stand in a completely absurd situation compared to all other countries, and the third is to increase investment for construction and maintenance, which has also been underfunded for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1407	I'll start by quoting from the Progress Party program: ‘The Party considers that the money and credit markets should be regulated by market supply and demand, without political regulation or intervention.’ In addition, in the budget presented by the Progress Party, we see that we are cutting 12.4 million. to the Credit Authority. My question to the representative Jensen is this: Is it a wise position to reduce the appropriations by 12.4 million? kr to the credit supervision in the situation we are now in? And question No. 2: Is the representative sure that political regulation and intervention are unfortunate to the credit market?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1419	The Progress Party is in favour of effective credit supervision, but we are also in favour of rational use of money. And so we're convinced that it's possible to rationalize the operation of all public agencies in Norway without going at the expense of quality. Then to the monetary policy. The Progress Party has been standing in this Chamber for many years, thinking that the interest rate should not be politically driven, but run by the Bank of Norway. In 2001, there was a shift in monetary policy towards more inflationary governance, where we politicians have very little influence over interest rates. Now I've seen some red-green politicians almost take credit for the recent decline in interest rates, and it's typical socialists to take credit when interest rates go down, and waive responsibility when it goes up. The whole point is that we politicians should not interfere in the interest rate setting, but leave it to a skilled body that sets interest on the basis of an overall assessment of economic development. We trust that the Bank of Norway will do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1428	Siv Jensen was at a large nursery meeting a little while ago under the direction of PBL. There she said that the party would continue to fight for full economic equality between private and municipal kindergartens. It's a very important thing. That's why I'm so surprised when I see the Progress Party's alternative budget, because one has not seen one more penny to treat municipal and private kindergartens in the same way, neither in the budget that is being treated this year, nor in what was treated last year. There seems to be a bit of a gap between what one says, that the Progress Party should be on – because we know that it is important to have equal treatment between the private and municipal kindergartens – and the reality of the alternative budget, which seems different. The same applies to cash support, which the Progress Party has not proposed to increase, either for the next year or for the current year. Is this an important family policy issue when it does not return to the Progress Party budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1435	In family policy, the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party are very close together, and I'm very happy about that, because then we have a good starting point for working together in the next big period. But now the funding of private kindergartens is also very much up to the priorities of municipalities. More than any other party in this room has strengthened the municipality's economy for 2009, among others. through the designation of funds, so that we can steer efforts, not least against nursing homes and care for the elderly. We have strengthened the funding of municipalities in almost all areas, because they are underfunded in the government budget, which is even worse because of the financial crisis and the economic downturn that we now experience. If the municipalities had received real funding for all the responsibilities and tasks they have, it would also have been an important contribution to the greater equality of treatment of private and public kindergartens, in which we agree with the heart, is essential for the survival of private kindergartens in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1444	The Chairman of the Advance Party uses big and strong words, one of which was now “merciful”. It was ‘merciful’ to hear that the financial crisis was a result of the market economy ‘in free dressage’. The lead party's answer was that the US's injunction to lend money to people who can't pay for it was the reason. It's too simple. The truth is, of course, much more comprehensive. Alan Greenspan has taken maritime criticism. The Progress Party does not take any maritime criticism of its so-called maritime regulating market economy. But to the question. The Chairman of the Advance Party says it's an unreal budget debate. There are out-of-date forecasts. If that is so wrong, why does the Chairman of the Advance Party not take the consequence of the strong words and send the budget back to the Government for re-examination? Why not put power behind the great, looking words?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1454	The answer to that is very simple: the red-green parties have a majority in the Stortinget. What the Progress Party has done is to present an alternative budget which we believe is well adapted to the situation for 2009 and which I record as agreeing with. But if Lundtigen thinks that next year's government estimate for unemployment, next year's economic growth and next year's oil price is real and really described in the budget, I'd like to hear it, because in that case it would be an example of a relatively embarrassing reality description. When I was talking about "merciful" in my post, it wasn't because of the market economy, but because of the amazing misalignment that red-green politicians are working on trying to highlight the excellence of socialism. Socialism is terribly little that would be more excellent in today's situation. The truth is that the market economy works, with good external regulation, for which the Progress Party is for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1466	Tradition is true, crisis or not crisis: the party of progress stands for miles from all the other parties in this chamber of economic policy. The Progress Party will include: The next year, more than $30 billion will be spent on the right and left, including the government. Now it is well enough that the Progress Party has agreed to agree with the other opposition parties to ask for closer cooperation with the Government. This sounds dependable. My question is, wouldn't it really be an advantage if the opposition could rather cooperate with itself and make concrete proposals together, which one could then evaluate? Is it not that we would have been more interested in that, for example. The Right Party and the Progress Party managed to arrive at what kind of policy would be alternatives to the policy being pursued today, instead of running on each of their heads?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1473	I am absolutely sure that the Right Party and the Advance Party and other opposition parties will succeed if they decide to form government together. But in today's situation, that's not the case. In today's situation, all parties present autonomous alternative government budgets based on their own batch programme. Anything else would've been weird. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre did the same when they were in opposition during the previous period. It is a desire to present the independent policies of each party. But then it is that if you first decide to cooperate, you have to put a few keephesters aside and build bridges. I am absolutely convinced that we have to deal with this, if that is the first reason for it, so that this concern can be allayed by the Olav Akssen. But I understand that he has a touching concern for us. That means he's already prepared to go into an opposition life. He might as well, because we're going to win the election next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1480	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1483	After listening to the previous line change, I have to say that I am a little surprised by the questions there. It seems that government parties are unable to detect that something has happened in Norway. It's the old record -- it wasn't a line I hadn't heard before, maybe with the exception of Lundtigen's creativity when it came to sending the budget back. But what's happened this fall is dramatic, it's different, and it actually requires that Norwegian politics in some areas also behave differently than going into the usual party-political pingpong game. There are a significant number of people who are going to lose their jobs next year, and some of them are going to lose their jobs because of the election campaign of the government parties. There are a significant number of people who are going to have problems paying bills next year, because they have a worse economy, and because there's become more uncertainty. Then I really think we should have had some answers other than those given in the usual political pingpong game. I record that when the budget was presented, many wondered that the budget had no more impact on us actually getting into much more difficult situations. Then Minister of Finance Halvorsen replied: I have a plan – to quote Egon Olsen. That plan is now shattered, as any Egon Olsen plan in the past has done. The budget does not hold up to the challenges facing Norwegian families, Norwegian workplaces and Norwegian society next year. Sometimes we should get together and say that something is more important than anything else. I'm glad that the four opposition parties agree on some major features that you have to do more with. We agree to reverse the tax dollars to the Government. Sometimes I think it's just stupid to increase the wealth tax, but sometimes it's very stupid to increase the wealth tax. This is the case now, because in a society that bears the mark of more pessimism, that bears the mark of less investment, that bears the mark of people being laid off, and where there is not enough money for companies to borrow for their investment projects, it is fundamentally stupid to tell all small and large businesses and all family-run businesses that we really think they have to pay more, and that instead of there being money for their investments through equity, we are going to collect money into the treasury. But that's what the government does with this budget. Everything else has obviously been overarched, for now the Minister of Finance has repeatedly said that nothing should be done. So it's going to be done a little bit, but at least it's not going to do anything about the distribution profile, read: it's not going to do anything about the property tax. This is stupid. It's stupid because it contributes to pessimism. It contributes to more inaction. It helps those who are going to create jobs to cancel people instead of hiring more people. That is why the Government is creating more unemployment with the budget that has arrived. Yesterday's experience, that after seven weeks of budgetary discussions at Stortinget, we are told that we are going to amend this budget in January/February, so it is not so important what will be adopted tomorrow, I think is a rather strong provocation from the Government. We've been told that we should discuss whether there was a need to make changes. We have wanted a dialogue, so that we could talk about not only what kind of action, but also what timing we would have for new changes. But you've been saying that this has not been necessary for us to look at, and we have to keep up with it. There was no concrete action yesterday, just a message that something new is coming, which then sets aside everything in this debate and everything that is the basis for decision-making today. Let me say something about what should be in the package that is to come, and that should come long before January. There is a need to increase the lending framework for municipalities in order to build, because if you want to do something about the unemployment in construction for spring, it will not be possible to give a signal in February. The signals given in February will not trigger a single job until October next year, with tender projects and others. The second thing we should be able to do now is take what we've been looking for from sports facilities waiting to be built because the tippers haven't been big enough to contribute. We can put that in a one-off jacket, and we can help with that. Then the government should remove its private allergy to OPS projects and ensure that we massively initiate road construction in the future. This would help to reduce the number of unemployed persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1503	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1506	I understand that right now I want to cooperate and have an agreement with the government party. The premise for this is right enough that the government party, which has multiples, puts away parts of its policy and replaces it with its right. Therefore, even though Erna Solberg does not like these questions, it must be allowed to ask them: What should we really work together on? Is it the case that we should take on the basis of Right's policy? Should we base our policy on the Progress Party? So the four opposition parties on the Storting are not sure how to solve this financial crisis. The only thing they're aware of is that they want to cooperate with the government parties. Is it because they realize that they can't cooperate with each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1511	We wanted a dialogue with the Government on what measures we can take to put in place an offensive policy, a policy that had brought back a little more optimism in Norway, a policy where the business community and those who are going to bet on jobs, trade unions and people who are going to pay their bills the next year had experienced that politicians were united about some measures. I've never had the illusion that we agreed on everything. But we could agree that this is the recipe for lifting this country forward. It happens in many other countries around us that we work together on types of action, we have a dialogue about it. But the fact that the Workers' Party does not want to have it, in my opinion, is an example that either cooperation is so fragile internally that they can't do anything, or you're concerned that this should give your own party political gain. I don't understand what the gain is that more people are going to be unemployed next year because the government doesn't bring the optimism back to the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1518	If Erna Solberg was primarily concerned with the jobs, she should not be dissatisfied with the Government when we from our side say that we should come back with a revision of the budget, with new measures, in January/February. If it is that Erna Solberg believes first and foremost that we are wrong about the policy that is being pursued in relation to how the budget we have is set up, then she should probably have had a different level of priorities in the alternative budget of Right. But it's not like that. If Erna Solberg was busy getting something, it shouldn't be like that she made as an ultimate claim that in order to sit down and talk together we had to cut into the main distribution profile within the tax area. But the point is that Erna Solberg is primarily concerned with implementing Right-wing policy, and that's not us. We're concerned with fair distribution. That's why it's going to be different.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1527	Good right-wing policy is to keep people in work, make sure people can pay their bills, make sure that people are not anxious in everyday life when envelopes get in the mailbox. If that's what I'm saying as an ultimate requirement, then it's absolutely right. That day-to-day we think people deserve to get. We don't think people should have that much anxiety, and we think that we politicians should contribute here. I believe that today's government is strengthening the problems by the way it behaves, by not wanting to talk to the opposition, but also by the arrangement of the budget. Our arrangement of the budget means that we have more activity in construction. We're going to get more schools rehabilitated faster. We make sure that we have more swimming pools built faster. We want to take advantage of the opportunity to solve some problems we have had problems solving in recent years because of the high economic climate. I haven't felt that this was going to be so very different, but we have a significantly higher level than the government. We have a significantly higher level of road construction, we could trigger even more to road capacity through Public Private Cooperation. And then we also have to have the optimism back. Then you can't press down those who create jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1536	It's interesting to listen to the Right Leader. Government should finance roads through Public Private Cooperation, i.e. with private capital. Everyone knows it's more expensive, because private capital requires a higher return on capital. Likewise: It is much less topical today. Privates have much greater difficulty in raising capital than the public. But the point was that the government and government parties are completely out of course. Actually, what's happening now is far more powerful than anyone could predict. It's a hard time. Collectiveness is required; community is required to bear the burden. Then it is strong to hear the Right Song about tax relief, where the Right Leader of the Greatness Chair has not yet taken the term ‘tax by ability’ in his mouth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1544	Then I think the representative is wrong. I think I've previously responded to lines about flat tax, and I've said that I disagree, because I think it should be tax on ability. We can probably look in all of the long reports about what's said in this room. I must stress that I agree with Lundtegen that it is important that we stand together, that is what was my invitation three weeks ago. My invitation to the Government was to show that we have the opportunity to take part of these things together, instead the Government has chosen to do the opposite. It has chosen to run violent attacks on the fact that there are the rich who are going to pay more – they are putting down their deposits for the election campaign. I think the representative Lundtigen really agrees with me, because the central party is that there is no wealth tax paid on working capital. It is the trucks in the transport company, it is the processing instruments in the fishing processing company and it is the hotel building that is the capital that must now be realised in order to pay taxes on wealth, with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1553	The right has in its budget a tax scheme in which persons with income between 300000 and 350000 DKK receive 900 kroner in tax. By comparison, people with more than 3 million. kr in income about DKK 100 000 in tax credits. At the same time, Knitting Right more than half a billion kroner in aid. Is the Right comfortable with the social profile in its tax bill? Is the Right Leader comfortable taking half a billion dollars from the poorest in the world to give to those who have the most? Is this Right Solidarity in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1560	The right is spending a lot more money on poverty measures here at home in the budget we have presented. I could rhetorically say that when the representative Jakobsen is going to vote against our poverty measures, does he think that there are drug abusers and the poorest who are going to pay for the measures that the Government has put into its budget? As far as assistance is concerned, we have said that we are concerned about the quality of the assistance. We are concerned that the assistance is working. And yes, we have reduced aid, in particular aid to Latin America. We want concentration around this, including aid to the Palestinian territories, which have increased significantly in the budget. Then I want to underline one thing. When it looks like we're giving a lot of tax relief to them with the highest pay, it's wrong. It's the tax on those who own businesses, it's the tax on the family business – it's the tax on the jobs we want to reduce. It's the tax amplifying of the government we're reversing -- which gives these numbers to the highest incomes. It is the policy of this government, that they increase the tax in this way, that contributes to more unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1569	I can conclude that neither in the last financial debate during this major period does there exist a real collective opposition to today's government. The only opposition party thing to gather about is to be critical of the Government and the Government's policy, while inviting the Government to cooperate more closely. I'll try again to get an answer as to whether the Right Leader understands that it's hard to understand what you're going to cooperate on, when the four parties that invite you to this collaboration are not among themselves. It must have been an advantage to have cleared a three-four claims from the opposition to which the government party could have taken a stand. Now the government has received a letter that the opposition wants to cooperate. My question to the Right will then be: Will there also be such a letter to the other opposition parties, so that one can get a cooperation with them as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1578	I am absolutely sure that the three other parties on the non-socialist side will say that measures that contribute to increasing the lending framework for municipalities so that they can start more school buildings are important. I am absolutely sure that the initiative we have taken today, to realize more sports buildings, would be measures that my colleagues in the other three opposition parties could agree on. Then we agree that we should reverse the tax austerity imposed by the Government, that we should also introduce some tax reliefs, and that we should do it as, among other things. is in one of the government parties' programmes, namely to ensure that we increase depreciation rates on the company's investments in machinery. That's a lot we actually agree on. If the representative Aksen had wanted to read what it says, he would have seen that with regard to many business-oriented measures and many employment-oriented measures, these parties agreed. What we disagree about is how much oil money we're going to spend. We've had that debate many times. But I want to remind you that one year before the elections, the three red-green parties also had three alternative budgets. There's no difference between that and what's happening on the opposition's side today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1587	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1590	SV is very pleased with the government budget presented this year. We have been satisfied with previous budgets too, but this is probably the very best – the best of the many good that have been presented. We also believe that one has been predictive when one saw that there was a recession, and a number of measures have been put in place that will work from 1 January when the state budget is finally adopted. We keep going in the same direction, but even stronger. We get the best in the three parties, I use to say -- the best in both the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party is in this budget, and then the total package is going to be very good. The whole thing is that we are putting on Community solutions and making sure that we build the country so that everyone can take part in what we are building. That's what this is all about. And then we have a lot of ingredients here. So many have said so far in the debate that this is a different debate. That's enough, because we've got the so-called financial crisis over us. I have more reflections about it. The first one is screaming for political governance that has come from all countries – not just from the SV and the red-green government, now it is screaming everywhere for political governance. That's exactly what we have. We have political governance in this country. Since problems began, we have documented that we are delivering on a case-by-case basis. It started with the banks, and no later than today the exporters got their solution – and we will probably get new solutions afterwards. So what they're yelling at, we're doing something about it. We deliver all the time. We think about and deliver where there is a need. As the Minister of Finance went on to say, you always work, constantly, with this problem and will deliver in new areas gradually – not least a larger package of measures will be delivered in the month-end of January/February. I was up on Monday in the Nord-Trøndelag – I use to travel there occasionally – and I talked to the business community. There they said, "We trust you, Inge." That's what this is all about. Do the Norwegian people trust that we have a government that will sort things out in a difficult situation? That trust I think this government has. But people think it's hard. I met a company, a so-called gas company, which had to permite 30 p.m. and which was nervous about the development, and which realized that this is something that is demanding. Because we have to realize that the situation we're in is demanding for business and others. But it's about people having confidence that the government will fix it up. That's why you wait to see how to get out of such a difficult situation – because it's going to be demanding. Then it is good that we have a government that wants political governance, and that actually controls and delivers packages after package. One of the areas I want to stay a little bit by is the so-called Nav-etate. We have seen in the past, when there have been wave valleys, that the labour market seat has been very good in Norway. They have quickly turned their heels and intervened to help businesses and people who are unemployed to get into activity as quickly as possible. Now we have a new type of labour market seat, called Nav, which is a different kind of culture, with the merging of social skills, skills in social services and labour market competence. I think it's going to be important for Nav to be given both resources and skills that make them ready to meet the businesses, the ones that have to go out of work, so that we actually carry the line of work on in practice, that people who become unemployed should not go around and look at the weather and kick pebbles, but get into activity as soon as possible. It's incredibly important. That is why I believe that in the work done by the Minister of Finance and the Government on a package of measures, Nav must be one of the areas in which particular attention is given. Suffering if we don't get too much leave, there will be a need for someone to go into businesses, for example. in the form of in-house training, and ensure that we use the time that is now coming, when there are fewer assignments, to enhance skills that will be used later in developing new jobs. Finally, I am pleased with the budget that has been presented. I think there's a lot of excitement there. Many of the grips that lie there will help to get the wheels started in those areas where you're afraid that you're going to have a recession and a recession. But it is quite obvious, as the Minister of Finance says, that there will be a need for further efforts, and we look forward to the measures that are included in the month-end January/February.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1607	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1610	I would like to repeat parts of the line I had at Inge Ryan's party colleague, the representative Heikki Holmås, about free trade and tolls, as I did not get any good answer. Does the representative Inge Ryan and his party and government mean poor people in the developing world, such as the United States? Nigeria, India, Pakistan and Palestinian-damaged areas are worth less than poor in other developing countries? That's what you say when you don't open up tolerances for these developing countries. So concrete: Why does SV not want to remove customs duties on goods from e.g. Palestinian-damaged areas, so that we can achieve more trade between Norway, Israel and Palestinian-damaged areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1617	There's a complicated question that's being asked. I'll try to answer in one minute. Firstly, we are concerned that we should have food production in Norway. That's why this customs protection thing is incredibly important. If we're going to have food production across the country, one of the most important steps we have is customs protection that makes it possible to produce food in North Norway, in the West and elsewhere. So it's not like we're not importing food from other countries. We're running negotiations all the time where we open it up. For many years we have, among other things, had agreements with some MUL countries that allow us to open up imports of food from poor countries. This is very complicated -- what we're going to take in and what we're not going to take in. I think the people we have in government do a good job in that area. They make sure on the one hand that we have import protection and a customs duty that allows us to have a seagoing food production, and on the other hand they make sure that we help to give some of the poorest countries the opportunity to sell their goods here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1626	The representative Ryan is pleased with the Government. I'm kind of not surprised about that. But he especially boasted that we now have a government that is a member of the political governance of the financial market area. I've been sitting in different positions at Stortinget since 1981. I have never experienced any government that has not been this. I wonder why, sir. Ryan is especially pleased with this now. My second question: Has the representative Ryan in his contact with the business community in Nord-Trøndelag experienced owners who say that the next few years are taxed so hard, as a result of, among other things. increase in taxes on wealth, that they have to collect parts of their equity from the enterprise to pay taxes? Does Ryan have the impression that it has helped to strengthen these businesses before next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1634	I get to answer the second question first. The companies that I have met – not only now, but also earlier – are occupied with three-four things that they want from the Government and the Storting. They are not concerned with tax havens. They are concerned with the following: they are concerned that we provide research, and that we have labour available at all times. They're busy with transportation. The last thing they're concerned about is predictability. These are the four areas I usually hear about when I meet the business community. I heard that now, too. But it's clear that this time you were especially concerned with the special situation we're in. There's no one -- almost none, at least -- who's calling for tax havens. It is considered that the level of taxation in Norway is acceptable. So to the first question: I am aware that we have had governments, including Per-Kristian Foss as Minister of Finance, which, of course, was driving political governance. I fully agree with that. But I notice that now you want even stronger political governance. It is now hoped that politicians will come even stronger on the ground than before and take action. In the past, the position was that politicians had to stay a little away, so that the market could clean up the seams. Now there is a stronger call for politicians to take action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1641	Half of our school buildings are not in satisfactory condition. In addition, when the budgets are going to go together, we see that we have some church buildings where maintenance challenges are challenging – a great national cultural heritage that we should have taken better care of. We now see increased unemployment, and then the construction industry reports that they have projects of approximately NOK 30 billion lying in the drawer that they can only pick up and start working with. Then I think here we have a perfect match. So my question to the SV parliamentary leader is: Will you now give the municipalities a direct earmarked grant, so that you can take up these projects from the drawer, start and get good school buildings for our children, and get the national cultural heritage of our country that the church buildings are?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1646	Already in the state budget that we are to adopt here before Christmas, there are interest-rate compensation schemes both for school and for church buildings, proposals that are likely to be adopted here in the United Kingdom. That's because, as Dagrun Eriksen says, the need is great. We are aware of that. But the capacity of the construction industry, in the construction industry, has been low because of the enormous boom that has been. In a low economic cycle, there is a greater chance that efforts can actually be made in both church buildings and school buildings. That is why it is proposed in the State budget. Then the government has to consider whether to go further with it – we will have to come back to that when considering a so-called package of measures that the Minister of Finance has come with. But already in the state budget there is a commitment to upgrading schools and church buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1651	In addition to the financial crisis, over the past few weeks, attention has been paid to the conditions of the real labourers in society, the health status of many heavy drug users. There is a group that the left has been busy for a long time to help. Now, fortunately, it seems that more people have got their eyes up for this. The problem is that the government and government parties correspond to drug users as they do to all critical questions: there has never been more effort than now in all areas. No, of course it doesn't, with the growth we have in the economy, and with the use of 14 extra oil billions in the budget we are dealing with today. However, it does not help those who are struggling. The left has therefore proposed a targeted commitment to increased care and rehabilitation for drug users, with an overall increase of approximately DKK 0.5 billion in our alternative budget. My question to Ryan is: Is there a head-high S.B. today voting against Left's proposal for a raise of SEK 0.5 billion to improve the conditions for drug users?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1658	We fully agree that we must make an effort for this group. It's one of the weakest groups in society, and my party is very concerned that we're going to try to make the most of the weakest in society. It's also being done. Among other things, it concerns the specific measures for drug users. But the most important thing, I think, is that we make good community solutions for people in Norway, so that we include as much as possible in a good school, a good cultural offer, a good health care, etc. That's the arena that's the important one. If we are able to obtain good Community solutions, those who are struggling in society, including drug users, will also be able to take part in it. And then we have someone who has special problems. We're also, like the Left, concerned about it, and we're still going to focus on it in the future. It's a group that we're busy about to get it right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1665	I want a little bit back to the buildings. We are very pleased that the Government took a step on the way to reintroducing the interest compensation scheme. We think that's good. We do not think the scheme proposed for the Municipal Bank is that good. It will be demanding for municipalities to be able to benefit from. What I think was really useful was simply to get a direct earmarked grant that made you get these projects started. The first part of the question is whether, at least, it will be considered as an instrument and not just extend the arrangements. The second part of my question is a little bit about what we've seen in the last few days, where press conferences with the Government on measures to solve this financial crisis have been held both in the hiking hall here and up in the government building. Had it not been an advantage for the relationship between the Storting and the Government that these measures had been presented here, and not in all other forums?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1672	To the first question, what kind of action can be taken in the field of school construction and church building: As I said in my first answer, there are already actions going on. Then we have to look at how they work. So I know that the Minister of Finance and the Government also focus on the fact that, in a low economic climate, we have more opportunities to invest in public investment in construction. I know it's a theme. I can't make any promises here about what's coming, but I know there's something you're discussing. With regard to the presentation of the various measures: it is that it is called, rightly, after action relatively quickly. So you have to think about it. It is necessary to ensure that action is taken against those affected by it. If we hit right with respect to e.g. Export finance, you have to do a job. And then you have to find the time to put it into action as soon as possible after you have done the job. You could say that maybe it should have been presented here in the hall. I don't think it's reprehensible that the government chooses to present it this way. You have a majority in favour of the proposals. Thus, it is not unnatural to choose to present it piece by piece and divided, rather than as an overall package.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1679	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1682	To begin with, where the representative Ryan left off: the government has a majority, and it is not unnatural that it acts as it does. But the government's message is that there are extraordinary times, and that extraordinary times require extraordinary action. I want to add: extraordinary times also require extraordinary leadership and exceptional cooperation. This harvest has been more than any other period since the last major elections, a test of the speed with which a majority government can react when policy assumptions change as they have done in the harvest. The debate has so far been marked by the fact that the parties to the government have not entirely decided on the bones on which to stand. Until yesterday, the government claimed that they had submitted a government budget that was well adapted to the economic situation, and where one had taken full account of the impact of the financial crisis on the Norwegian economy. But only hours after the presswart had dried up the Prime Minister's chronicle in the VG, where this message was repeated, the Minister of Finance announced that the Government had now come up with better ideas. There was now a clear need for new fiscal measures, which could be implemented early in 2009. The Minister of Finance reverses the entire financial debate. The question can be asked: Why did you come to this confession as late as 26 November, the day before the Stortinget was to deal with the state budget, and after stubbornly rejecting calls from both opposition parties, trade unions and businesses to present such a package of measures? One reason, of course, is that the government has had other things to think about than job number one. It was the latter's question of measures to limit the flow of asylum. It has been notified of its use of the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement to say no to the Services Directive. And most recently last week, the Minister of Finance characterised the Government’s own decision to purchase American fighter aircraft as the ‘joyful madness’. I understand that this takes on, but let go. All of this is history now. The most important thing is that a package of measures has been notified. I think a lot indicates that the government is now regretting, and that they have problems explaining why you have not been willing to do this before. Let me therefore make a political offer: the government parties can, if they wish, vote to fit this package of measures into the budget here today, because the proposals that the government is likely to make in January/February are already on the Stortinges table as a voting option. The relevant measures indicated in the letter from the Minister of Finance to the Chair of the Financial Committee are contained in the extraordinary package of measures against increased unemployment proposed by the Christian People's Party. It is possible that the construction industry is strongly involved in alerting 60000 unemployed in the coming years, but it has been raised beyond any doubt that there are now significant available resources that can be used to re-enter maintenance on roads and on the railway network. As the representative Dagrun Eriksen mentioned, KS says that maintenance projects for NOK 30 billion are clear in Norwegian municipalities and can be realised in 2009, only the financial assumptions will be put in place in time, so that the necessary decisions can be taken. It'll take time. Therefore, it would have been very good if there had been a basis for those decisions here today. This year, too, the Christian People's Party has not intended to sign up for any Norway championship in tax districts. There has been a review theme in the debate. But we believe – like for example. The Joint Undertaking — that targeted tax credits to stimulate investment in business are an instrument that must be used in exactly the economic situation we now have. Therefore, we propose increased tax depreciation rates as part of our package of measures. I find it difficult to believe that the Minister of Finance can seriously claim that the reduction in the employer’s fee for apprentices is tax-free for those who have the most in the past. It is fully possible to combine the desire for the rapid impact of measures, the rational use of funds and a good distribution profile with moderate and reasonable tax havens. The Government has announced that it will publish the content of the package of measures in the month-end of January/February. Of course, the government has the right to not discuss the content of this package with anyone, but I don't think that would be particularly wise. All forecasts indicate that the labour market will develop negatively over the next two to three years. Targeted measures to combat unemployment could, unfortunately, be a most topical challenge even after forthcoming enlargement. No matter who rules, I think the fight against unemployment deserves political assembly. The country deserves a government that is brave enough to lead, but also big enough to listen. I recommend the Christian People's Party's alternative state budget in its entirety, both the package of measures and the rest of the draft budget. I recommend the Government to seek cooperation on further work against unemployment – not for the sake of the Christian People's Party or for the opposition, not for the sake of business either, but primarily for the sake of the workers and families in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1706	It is now less than a year to the election, and the Christian People's Party has made it clear that the only parties they want to enter into any government cooperation with are the Right and the Left. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party conducts a rather different fiscal policy in relation to what the Right and Left feel is responsible, as the representative Sponheim has also said something about on the pulpit before today. Among other things, Christian People's Party spends NOK 4 billion more than what Right and Left do. Does this mean that the Christian People’s Party excludes possible future cooperation with its old government partners? While the Right Cuts also in aid, the Christian People's Party increases the appropriations for assistance to more than 1 pst. of GNI. It's an area where I know that the Christian People's Party has a sincere and genuine commitment to getting a fairer world. Isn't it a problem to go in cooperation with a party that cuts in the allocations of the world's poorest to give tax credits to Norway's richest?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1714	Let me answer the first question first. I think that when we get to January/February, an overall increase in the definition of responsible fiscal policy will be quite close to what the Christian People's Party has been doing since we presented our alternative budget, namely that we need to do something more to stimulate activity in the private sector, and not least use this opportunity to do neglected jobs in the public sector. When it comes to the question of cooperation, I think the differences we're talking about here are overwhelming. I don't like the people who finance their taxes by taking from the world's poorest. That's what I've been saying from the Great Council chair before. But I get to say like Jan P. Syse: Our experience is that the Right shows its best sides in collaboration with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1721	The representative of the Højbräten now invites us to vote in favour of the Christian People's Party budget, because there are already the measures to be introduced by the Government in January/February. It is possible that the representative Høybråten is a fortune-teller, but I see at least no black hat in the hall – eat like that! Until now, the inheritance tax has been a very unfair tax. While ordinary people have paid 20-30 pst. of essential parts of the inheritance they have received, the richest have used large-scale loopholes. They have paid little inheritance tax. The government is now proposing a major conversion of the inheritance tax. This means a reduced inheritance tax for ordinary people, while people with large fortunes who have adapted to loopholes get a significant boost. We know that the Christian People's Party will not go in for this. It might be interesting to hear the representative, Høybräten, justify the lack of support for the whole of a fairer inheritance fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1728	Let me first say that you don't have to be a fortune-teller, neither black nor white, in order to establish that the government is on the trail of the same measures that the Christian People's Party has proposed in its package of measures. If you read the Minister of Finance's letter yesterday to the Finance Committee, you will see that it is in the direction you think – to use free capacity to commit to unsolved public tasks. One has also opened up the possibility of looking at taxes, but not the part of the tax proposal that the representative Lund Bergo now mentions. The Christian People's Party is not fundamentally opposed to such a transformation as the Government has proposed, but we believe that the timing is completely wrong. We believe that what the government should have done was to make the inheritance fee easier with regard to family businesses facing a generation change, for example. It is at least more and more obvious to most that such a proposal should not have been promoted now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1737	The Christian People's Party has signaled that they want government cooperation with the centre-right. The centre party has chosen a different model, namely the centre-left, where we believe that we get through as much of our policy as possible and what the centre party stands for. The right-hand alternative budget for 2009 contains significant tax reliefs, amounting to approximately DKK 5 billion. It contains cuts in agricultural aid of DKK 1.8 billion, and they also cut in aid, in particular for Asia and South America. Does the Christian People's Party worry that the Right – as a future partner – is presenting an alternative budget that is so different, and that has a completely different device than what is in the mind of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1746	Let me first say that the Christian People's Party prefers to cooperate in the centre, regardless of the centre of gravity. It also includes the Center Party, but unfortunately the Center Party has now for another period linked itself to a collaboration with SV in absolutely all matters. We're followers of former central party leader Anne Enger Lahnstein's doctrine that a centre party should be able to cooperate on both sides. What is important about the proposals of the Christian People's Party in this financial debate and in this state budget is that we want to show what is our policy. We want to present a policy that takes account of developments in the Norwegian economy, which takes into account the threat to Norwegian jobs, which takes into account that families want greater freedom of choice, etc. I'm recording that the Center Party, when they're going to attack the Christian People's Party in this row change, must resort to the Right Budget to find some explosives. I'm not here to defend the Right Budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1758	There has been a strength in Norwegian economic policy that there has been a very large political dimension in the use of oil money. Now, all of a sudden, the Christian People's Party has come to the conclusion that they should not be part of the broad political alliance, and has broken out a year before a grand election. Does the High Commissioner see the problem that he is now getting rid of the – almost – political consensus that has been in the field of economic policy, and at the same time is the guarantor of a minority government if there is a government change next autumn? Or does he see, as probably the Norwegian people are going to see, that the most sensible thing is to have a majority government in the situation we're in now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1765	I think less and less in the Norwegian people are seeing the excellence of a majority government, especially when the majority government saw until those degrees stick with its own opposition internally. In terms of financial accountability, I would say that it is completely wrong what the representative of Klungland now claims that we have left the rule of action. On the contrary: we stand on the rule of action, and we stand on the understanding of the rule of action that changing governments have adhered to, namely that it should be used according to the cyclical situation. That's what we're doing. I think the representative of Klungland can write behind the ear that when we get to January/February, the vast majority – perhaps and hopefully an even greater majority than the red-green – will adopt changes in the budget that are in line with a somewhat more expansive line, but within the rule of action, as the Christian People's Party has proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1774	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1777	In its alternative state budget, the Left has said that one of the most important things we do, in any case, in a society, is to ensure that society builds up knowledge, that society strengthens the research effort – both the basic and the nutritional research effort. We have said that this is the basis for value creation to give room for well-being, for building democracy and for strengthening human education. And I'd like to add that just research and the effort on higher education is something that goes across all social trends, all major trends that you'll see around you. Now that we are in a situation where there seems to be a broad acceptance that there is a need to promote measures that go across negative economic cycles, research efforts are counter-cyclical policies. That's in different ways. It maintains the long-term thinking that has to do with the development of society, because nothing is more socio-economical than research in all its versions, and because it is also the case that we first get negative economic times, there is a significant risk that enterprises – which has been the review theme here today – will invest less in research and development. The more important it is that society's contribution to strengthening research and development and society's own contribution to laying the groundwork through basic research is strengthened and ensured. From this point of view, within the framework of current budgetary procedures, the same framework as the government parties have, the Left has chosen to re-prioritise SEK 2.1 billion for knowledge and research, almost DKK 1.6 billion of which go to research — both basic research and industrial research. I want to underline how important it is to have such a perspective, and for the Left, this is – to put it that way – the seed of the future. That's what keeps this society going, that's what makes our society renew, that's what secures the unborn business. As one of our very central actions, we have invested money to strengthen the research fund, because a research fund used as originally intended, and as the Left has provided in all its alternative budgets, to ensure long-term sustainability both in the research effort, in the recruitment of scholarship holders and in the acquisition of the necessary scientific equipment. The fund is a way of having a long-term perspective. It is quite amazing that we no longer come with the long-termity of our country. We have a neighbouring country, Sweden, where, for example: At regular intervals, what is called research proposals, where commitments are made, not formally for several years, but effectively, because they are at the core of research activities. The left has chosen, through its alternative budget, where, through re-priorities, we spend more than DKK 2 billion more on research and knowledge than the government parties do, to base such a long-term approach. This autumn we have also had various debates on the famous rest cuts. First, the government parties applied for higher education and universities, then they gave it back, and then we had a government budget where it came from. Then everyone started calculating, and then you found out that you almost had one to one and a half new rest cuts. Fortunately, today the Council of State has found 160 million. kr before we approach Christmas, to make sure that colleges and universities are less affected. To this is to say, it's nice that it's coming, it's coming late, but it's not good enough, because it's still missing between 250 and 300 million. kr – i.e. the rest cut you had before. Unless this is fully corrected, universities and colleges will face a situation where job vacancies can be kept and where educational provision is affected. The government's positive message today on the NRK news, which the state council will probably take later here today, is quite ok, but it's ok in the sense that it needs to be seen as a first step. For its part, the left will work with everyone else who has opposed these new rest cuts. We will continue until we have an undertaking that the money will be put in place. The rest slices are zeroed out, and then it's like this: something's done, a lot remains. In this context, and in the context of the budget, it is necessary to look at the nutrient-oriented part of research. Here, the left-hand side adds up to 400 million. kr, because we see it as necessary to strengthen the user-driven innovation arena, research and development contracts, the whole business-oriented research. We also take a take-off by reintroducing, through the amount involved, old limits on the amount of tax FUNN, and introducing a scheme that we used to have on unpaid tax FUNN – a bet of almost half a billion dollars. The sum gives a powerful picture of the priorities of the left hand side. Knowledge is the prerequisite for building a society, knowledge is the prerequisite for building a business. Research is the lines that subtract the way we're going to go from where we are, from where we came from, and where we're going to go forward. In this strong priority within the same realistic economic framework as the government parties have presented in the Chamber today, we have shown that this is absolutely crucial. Just as little as a farmer in the old peasantry could drop having seeds to secure the future's yield, as little can be put into research. The priority of research is absolutely necessary to show that you want something. Prioritisation in politics means putting something first, and the Left's budget has marked this very strongly. Part of the effort from the Left is that we recognize that we have to recruit people both in universities and colleges as well as in schools. But within universities and colleges, we follow the advice given by the professional bodies that we should have 520 scholarships every year. We believe that we should have 100 post doc positions, and we believe that we should have more nutrition Ph.D.s. In these areas, we increase the grant effort by 369 in addition to the Government's proposal, post doc. positions by 65 and nutrition Ph.D. by 50. It's a formidable effort to say from now on to those who work, that there's a future for you here. The message from the Left to those who want to enter research careers is that we understand that the career is linked from a scholarship to a post doctor, and we understand that the institutions must have basic funding to secure them. At the same time, we say to the business community that although there are difficult times, at least the state and the public must do their job by investing in basic research in universities, colleges and the institute sector, while at the same time ensuring that the industry we have – when it is under pressure – sees that there are funds available here. It is the countercyclical policy that is not only short-term on a weekly basis, but it is absolutely necessary to maintain a fundamental optimism that we are not in the violence of blind forces, but that we ourselves can choose to shape our own social development. In this context, as far as school is concerned, we have chosen to prioritise, within the framework that is, to strengthen the recruitment of teachers and to build on competence through systematic further training for teachers. The government has started with some steps. We think the steps are too weak, we think they need to be reinforced. That's why we've redispatched 550 million. So we have a billion dollars together with what the government has put in to recruit teachers and build systematic skills for the teachers who are going to be out in school. We're in Oslo. Oslo is familiar to me with the first municipality in Norway that has decided to carry out a teacher's vow, a systematic further training for all teachers. It was introduced after an agreement between the Left, Christian People's Party and the City Council parties in the budget for the current year, and it is confirmed for the next year. It came before the government came with its addition. Here it has been understood that in a school system where good results have been achieved by focusing on school management, good teachers and good learning goals, it is necessary to further develop this. With regard to the current situation and the budgetary situation, I have to say that there is something that never ceases to amaze me by a government that governs Norway at a time when it is 10–15 years since the number of academics was greater than the number of industrial workers. I understand why you understand how important they are working with your hands and in other ways. But I have never understood why the Government has not understood to the same extent why it is necessary to invest in intellectual capital, intellectual labor -- that is, all those who have grown up in a society where more than half of the youth schools take on higher education and basic education. I have never understood this, and never understood why it comes out so weakly in the budget priorities. When I say this, I always get the answer that there's going to be more money than before. Yes, it should now just be lacking that there was no more money than before, when there is generally more money than before. But in politics, there are priorities that count. That means you put something first. If the Left decides that we want to recruit teachers and fight for it, build competence for teachers, we put it first. Then we don't put an hour extension in school first. When we choose to put research first, it means that, within the entire budget framework, we prioritise this money, because that's what we have to do. Then we also give a strong signal about what we want to build the strength of what we stand for. Without this formidable research effort, we are also unable to create the necessary starting point for meeting the climate crisis that lies in the context of the financial crisis that characterises this financial debate. Earlier today, the representative Sponheim has briefly referred to our proposals. He's been talking first and foremost about how we're going to act now, but my contribution right now is to say this: investing in research is offensive counter-cyclical policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1808	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1812	Odd Einar Dørum presented the Left's educational policy in the harvest in a sober and good way. I think that was all right. Finally, he challenged us to use our intellectual power of thought. Since Odd Einar Dørum is an experienced, long-standing big-time politician, I also want to challenge him to an intellectual exercise. Yesterday, when we presented the Government's work plan on how to deal with the fiscal turmoil we are now experiencing, the leader of the Left was furious, in the sense that he said to the VG-net that the budgetary procedure is 'a demanding red-green seminar, but we need proper political leadership at these times'. He also said that we had too bad clothes when the gun came in. At the same time, we experience from the government parties that the opposition collectively invites what they call a hard time to meet the difficult times. What kind of intellectual thoughts does the representative Dørum do when we get two so contrasting messages from the left?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1821	It's not at all contradictory. The representative Sponheim is living out his late party trap, Lars Ramdal, the self-taught, skilled peasant from the Ryfylke, who said that without strong rhetoric, the regime does not live. The rhetoric is what creates the force of agitation to change. The representative of Sponheim had two issues. One thing was that it's all right that the government is talking to the parties on the Stortinget before we read about it in the media. I think he's come up with that convincingly. The second is that it's pretty important when we're going to make solutions in the future, that we have to bring down the interest rate as problem 1, 2 and 3. I guess we who now have lines to each other through the President agree. And then he went on to say, it wouldn't be stupid if you were to do something about purchasing power, to think about those who have the weakest incomes -- be open to look at it. Furthermore, he has added that it is absolutely necessary not to forget the companies and the business community, and then he has left to me to say that without research it is not going well. Without that basic element, you're not doing well. I am therefore familiar with the agitator's abilities of the representative Sponheim. Thoughts and hearts go in the same direction, and it puts a strain on politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1830	Investing in children and young people, in kindergartens, in school, in higher education and research is the most important investment we can make in investing in the future. The alternative budget of the Left has a number of additions to education and research, but what the Left does is to cut them. It's for children between 0 and 18, who have to pay the price. Left takes with one hand and gives with the other. The left chooses to cut the kindergartens and increase the price, although we know that cheap high-quality kindergartens balance social differences and are extremely important for language development. The Left's programme says that you're in for a school meal, but in the budget, the Left chooses to remove the fruit from the school. Is the Left for a meal in school just because it's not fruit? Fruit is good for quality in school. In the left, free education is also available in secondary school and school hours. Why is it that the Left lets the children pay the price of their increases in education? Why don't they do like government parties and add to research?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1841	What we have here is two different ways of prioritizing. The left is simply different from the left. We believe that you tolerate a slightly higher kindergarten price without affecting the children, as the representative says. We believe that instead of legislating for a fruit-and-green scheme, we can do what we have done, namely to have a low rate of VAT on fruit and vegetables and to have a high rate of sugar to make a better diet possible. But the most important thing we do is we take the money that government parties distribute for many excellent welfare purposes, and concentrate on two measures: more teachers and good teachers. It is simply not possible to create a good public common school, which I assume is that the representative Lena Jensen and I fully agree on, without having enough teachers and good teachers. Then the teachers must understand that priority is given to them. I have previously said from this pulpit, and I would like to repeat it: Olof Palme said in his time that politics is about to happen. I want to say, as a left-wing representative, that it's also choosing. Choosing would be putting something first. That's the difference between the left and the left. We simply prioritize the recruitment of teachers and the competence of teachers first.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1848	It is an important topic addressed by the representative of Dørum – research and education. The part of Norway where, in my opinion, this works very well, is at More, where a thing to combine research and education with an active business – short ways from the new things to the practical production. That's not theory. It is practical, useful work that is put into action. It is now a central part to point this out more as part of an overall industrial policy, where ownership, concession laws and tax rules are a whole, and where we can then take advantage of our comparative advantage, our natural resources, with a well-educated population, both in practical and theoretical subjects. I am pleased that the representative of Dørum is developing the theoretical subjects. But I demand some emphasis on the practical skills, the many practitioners who have a pride through their efforts, where one also combines practice and theory in a exemplary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1859	I actually have a strong emotional relationship with that as a grandson of an iron worker who reschooled to be a goldsmith after taking a trip to America, who came back and brought money, and who literally created things through work with hands and with his head. I'm going to choose to take the representative in the very best sense and say it's about having a proper review of all the professional education opportunities we now have in the Norwegian primary school, and make sure we get sparkling good teachers. In the case of the small group that wears, we'll see to it that you, for example. You're also allowed to be a tiler if you can't become a bricklayer, but you need to know that you're mastering something. To ensure that these crafts are strengthened, the Left has included in its budget as regards, for example: protective craftsmanship. We're busy with that. We are concerned with some of the same practices that the representative takes up – for example, More and Romesdal. When, for example: to bet on SkattenFUNN, user-driven innovation arenas and research and development contracts, the intern is told, as the man on Sandøy on Sunnmøre: Here is a combination of old-fashioned craftsmanship and the intelligence industry. I prefer to see Rio de Janeiro and not Drammensvejen. It's tense!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1866	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1869	Alan Greenspan, former U.S. governor, was in the early fall and said he was sorry that he was wrong. He didn't think that the liberal policy he led on the financial market would lead to banks and financial institutions becoming so stupid that they didn't understand their own limitations. I record that the President of the Advancement Party is embarrassingly affected by this. At the same time, we see that our model, the Norwegian model, works. A strong public sector is an important buffer in economic fluctuations. Actually, former Minister of Finance Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen should have had a bust of gold because of the rule of action. If the Storting had chosen to follow the economic policy of the Progress Party in previous years, we would have been in a completely different situation in Norway today than we are. I don't want to say that we had been on the level with Iceland, but we had at least been in a much worse economic situation and had much less freedom of action than we have. That is why we should be proud of the economic policy and the security at the bottom of the management of our wealth. Then there is also the development of tripartite cooperation in the Norwegian model, where business, workers and political authorities work together for what is best for the nation. That is why we also have an orderly working life. At these times, with layoffs, redundancies and restrictions, there is no doubt that the work environment law underpinned by the Norwegian labour force will be a strength and a security for those who may be affected by the situation we are in. Then we have a fantastic good cooperation between state and market, which the government has pointed out to the degrees in relation to the packages it has now come with. So NOK 350 billion to the banks came to make the banks work the way they really should, so they're still going to be able to borrow money, and to bring down the interest rate. Yes, this shows that we have succeeded. The interest rate has fallen twice, one percentage point, and the money has begun to enter circulation. The government also showed that the export industry was having problems financing its projects. Then one went in quickly, quickly came to the Stortingen, and the Stortingen made a quick decision of 10 billion kroner to GIEK, which made you solve something. The government saw that it was not enough, in cooperation with the market, and now came back with a package that ensures the export industry's competitiveness and the ability to create jobs and jobs here in the country. We also have a good safety net through social security, retraining and labour market measures in Norway. I think maybe it's a little strange when it's like they're putting down VAT in the United Kingdom, while they have a unemployment premium that I think is impossible to live on. I think it's an economic problem in terms of getting the purchasing power up. That's exactly what's important, and that's the difference between the government parties and the opposition. We will use targeted measures that give effect, while the opposition will bring relief to the wealthiest in society. We have a public school, a public health service, care and kindergartens, which provide security for families. It gives security, not least when we get into situations where we get more urgent times, and where there are people who get hit because they lose their job. That is the Norwegian model, and we should be proud of it and develop it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1884	This has been a very special harvest. For the first time since 1945, it is estimated that total production, total value creation, will decline in the developed world. This will, as I like, among other things. underlined in the debate on the throne, also affecting Norway. This is a situation that requires clear thinking and proper action. There is a situation that requires us to put in place the measures that are needed, where they are needed, and when they are needed. It is a situation that requires exceptional instruments and an extraordinary willingness and ability to find good solutions. That is why the Government has put forward far-reaching proposals. Therefore, the Government has put great emphasis on listening to the advice we have received on how best to deal with the crisis. We have not least focused on the advice we have received from those who have the shoe on and who know where it prints. We've met managers of big and small businesses, big and small banks. We've met employees and their organizations. We've invited representatives of a whole Norwegian business life to make their recordings. We have listened to the advice we have received. The world has not faced a major financial crisis since the 1930s. As at that time, the crisis has its origins in the United States, and was initiated with stock market failures and bankruptcy. At that time, as now, the crisis was a result of greed and a naive belief that the market can control itself without regulation and public governance. As at the time, problems in the financial industry will now spread to other parts of the economy and society. And as at the time, the outside shakes will now also be noticed here at home. There will be less demand for Norwegian goods and services, reduced economic growth, companies will have to leave or cancel employees, and good projects will not receive funding. In the last three years, unemployment in Norway has halved. But today we got new numbers that show that unemployment is increasing. This shows that the international economic recession also affects Norway. The government’s task is both to secure existing jobs and to facilitate new jobs for those who become unemployed. With the severe economic downturn experienced by the world, it is not possible to avoid any enterprises being reduced or laid down. Our challenge is to give unemployed people new jobs in new businesses. We have to make sure that as little as possible loses the job, and that those who lose the job get a new job as soon as possible. Throughout the autumn, the government has promoted various measures to ensure jobs. In the government budget presented on 7 October, we announced a setback for the Norwegian economy and the international economy. For this reason, the budget under consideration by the Stortinget today contains comprehensive measures to stimulate the economy: several additional billions on road and rail, extensive state construction and several measures to increase construction activity in municipalities, among others. a separate scheme for the refurbishment and construction of schools and swimming pools. This bet will give us a double win. We get new school buildings, better roads and more hospitals. At the same time, we ensure work for many people who would otherwise be unemployed. Today’s budget is itself an action package for unemployment. The economy is stimulated by 14 billion kroner. Without this, Norway would be much harder hit by the international financial crisis. The budget is important. It's starting to work from the turn of the year. But we had to act before that. Lower interest rates and good access to capital work immediately. In meetings with business and working life representatives, we have received one unique advice: the most important thing now is to make banks function, to ensure business access to loans and to bring interest rates down. The interest rate has been reduced twice, and Norway’s Bank has announced a further decline in interest rates. Through government banks, guarantee schemes and other instruments, the State has guaranteed enterprises and households access to loans. The main single measure for the financial industry is the comprehensive crisis package for banks of DKK 350 billion. The banks had to start working again, after they had almost stopped lending. The money market also had to lower its interest rates. Now this crisis package is starting to work. The interest rates are coming down, and the banks are working more normally. But it is a long way to go before the Norwegian banking system works as it should. In addition to making the private banking market work, we actively use central banks. Last Friday we made proposals to enable the Municipal Bank to increase its lending by NOK 15-20 billion. We did that because many municipalities reported that they had problems financing important projects around the country. Now that we're expanding the Municipal Bank's framework, it means that it's possible to raise funds for schools and pooling, building nursing homes and nursing homes, and many other important measures around the country's municipalities. On Sunday, we presented new measures aimed at both the export-oriented part of industry and the small and medium-sized enterprises. We're increasing the frame for GIEK by $50 billion, near a doubling. Furthermore, the Government proposes to extend the shipbuilding loan guarantee scheme for ships. Last night, the State and Export Finance entered into an agreement that ensures the financing of Export Finance. By providing good access to subsidised loans, we secure jobs in key Norwegian export companies. This is crucial for those who live by selling their products abroad. In addition, the Government will increase the Norwegian Innovation Loan Framework by DKK 1 billion. Common to all these measures and at lower interest rates is that they start to work already in the harvest before the budget starts to work next year. The government announced yesterday that we will present new measures on the State budget early in the New Year to ensure Norwegian jobs. These measures will further step up the appropriations for public works and civil engineering and for maintenance projects. The most important thing for us is to put in place measures to keep unemployment down. Then we need tools that can be implemented quickly and that work quickly. I am pleased that the opposition parties are in favour of the new government initiative. No one has completed answers to how these challenges can be met. The government will listen to proposals and views from the opposition as well. That was the background for me in a letter to the Christian People's Party leader, Dagfinn Højbräten, yesterday invited to dialogue with the opposition. I repeat this invitation today. We had such dialogue also during the work on banking measures. We want to invite the opposition parties to talks about the new measures before they are presented. The government's environmental and distribution profile will be at the heart of the design of the new budgetary changes. The proposal on the social equitable conversion of property taxes and inheritance taxes remains firm. The economic crisis in the mid-war period had major, negative social and political consequences and lasted for many years. But the crisis of the 1930s also gave us important lessons and experiences that we now benefit from. At the time, conservative forces in the U.S. Congress tried to stop President Roosevelt's New Deal policy from the liberalist theory that the market itself will settle in the long term. Roosevelt's economic advisor commented on this with the well-known words: People don't eat in the long term, they eat every day. What we learned in the mid-war period is that the market cannot be left to itself, that financial markets must be regulated, that the market must be a tool for people and not the other way around, that we must have economic planning and a policy that has full employment as its main objective, that large public welfare schemes and small income differences are not only important in themselves but help to mitigate the effects and length of economic setbacks – in short, that what we call the Norwegian model, is not only best suited to sharing goods, but is also best suited to creating values and securing jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1918	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1921	I think it is very good that the Prime Minister is so clear about the need for dialogue with the opposition in order to put in place new and correct measures in the future. I also think that the Prime Minister provides a reasonably realistic reality description of a very serious situation for Norway. Now I also want to rewrite the one quote he himself used, namely that people are losing their jobs now, not in the long term. That is exactly why it would have been important for the government to take action as they have announced that we will join in January/February, when we have the opportunity in the short term to take decisions that would create a completely different optimism. Then I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he thinks it is okay that the Stortinget is today invited to take budgetary decisions that have already expired. So we have a government budget that is based on growth forecasts, unemployment forecasts and many other important indicators that are not at all consistent with all the other fresh forecasts. Shouldn't the government have changed them to get a realistic budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1929	Measures that are operational before the start of the 2009 budget are essential for the Norwegian economy. This is why measures that are effective already in the autumn have been put in place. This is why the Bank of Norway has reduced interest rates. It will take effect immediately. And we know that monetary policy works faster than budgetary policy when we're going to fight economic downtime. Lower interest rates are important for enterprises. It promotes investment. Lower interest rates are important for households and all those with housing debts. In addition, the budget includes a sharp increase in measures in the construction sector and in other measures to ensure jobs. What we need now is to increase the capacity to plan, project, new actions. Then there will be a lot of money on 1 January when the budget is adopted, and then more money has been announced a little further out of the year. So here there will be a significant effort in addition to the efforts that have already come. But it's not that one action solves the problem, we need a lot of action and a lot of packages beyond the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1936	We agree that it is important to make monetary policy, capital access, work in Norwegian society. We agree that we need to take action that works quickly, but we also need to ensure that the measures we may be going to take more of them in the future come into effect at that time. I agree that we will ensure that interest rates go down, but I also believe that we need tax reliefs that can contribute to more optimism in Norwegian society. There are also measures that quickly jump out to people, and that help you to use more, as I understand the government in the last few days has been eager to do. But then my cross of thought comes. Many of the other measures targeted, for example: in order to raise the activity of construction, if adopted in February, it will not take effect until the autumn of next year. The government sees that it should really have had a completely different pace of putting in stronger incentives, for example. for construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1945	What the right has raised is that they warned us that we were going to spend too much oil money when the government laid out its budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1950	No, we didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1955	Secondly, the Right has put forward a budget that actually seems to be tightening. Because when the Right Cuts in public expenditure and uses it to finance tax relief, the net effect of the tightening is. Because a person spends money on public budgets, it all goes to stimulate domestic demand, domestic activity. We spend the same money on tax bills, go a lot to imports and not to domestic activity. So the net effect of the Right Budget is more unemployment and a less expansive policy. For that reason, too, we are against the social benefits of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1960	President! To a manifest misunderstanding. Prime Minister... President! [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1965	No, the President has given the Prime Minister the floor, and unless the Prime Minister is finished, the Prime Minister will complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1968	The Prime Minister has said what was the point, namely that when the Right Cuts in public expenditure to finance tax reliefs are the net impact of the economic downturn, because private consumption goes a lot against foreign and import, while public expenditure goes towards inland and contributes more to activity promotion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1973	The President would also like to make it clear that there is one speaker speaking at the time in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1976	After the legislation, we have the right to ask for the word to clarify a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1981	Not during the line change. Someone's gonna have to take it later. Dagfinn Højbråten is the next replicant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1987	I want to say that I am pleased that the Prime Minister today – and through what was said yesterday by the Minister of Finance – announces an increase in the stimulation of the Norwegian economy to meet the notified increases in unemployment. It's something other than what he said to me a week ago, when he indirectly characterised the Christian People's Party's incentive package as irresponsible. But I'm going to let that lie now. I received a letter yesterday, to which the Prime Minister also refers, from the Prime Minister. It is correctly signed by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, but unlike other notes from the Prime Minister's office, it is not except public opinion. [[Laughter]] There the Prime Minister says he will be open to proposals and views from the opposition. I am now asking the Prime Minister to confirm that what he is inviting to do is a real dialogue, where the opposition's proposals will be discussed and balanced, and that it is not just a round of orientation before the Government submits its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e1994	It is true that Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has extensive powers. He is also authorised to sign a letter on behalf of me, as it is then stated in this letter. He's in the office. I travel around the country talking not least to business managers. What is contained in that letter, which I have also confirmed, is that the Government will invite the opposition to dialogue. We will find appropriate ways to do this, and that dialogue means that we want to listen to the views, opinions and suggestions of the opposition. It's a dialogue I think we should have because it's important not to be sloppy about what's now the right action, but also because it's important to seek and see if it's possible to come up with some unifying solutions. We did it in the context of the package of measures to the banks, and then we'll see how far you can get when it comes to a new financial package. The crucial thing for us is that we ensure the distribution profile and that we ensure measures that help to secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2001	I would like to take the opportunity to follow up where the Prime Minister left off, because I also think it is very good that the Government now chooses to have a real dialogue and conversation with the opposition about the device on such a package of measures. Unlike others in the opposition, I am also pleased that such a package of measures is not adopted today, because I think it is absolutely necessary that we ensure that interest rates go down before Christmas, before we start using a new budget and reinforce the effects of a new budget. I also understand that such a dialogue should not challenge us on the most politically sensitive things, but we may have to be willing to put a few capefesters on the stable to find some unifying solutions. This could mean that the most politically motivated taxes should not be the most important thing to discuss, but perhaps other aspects of tax issues that may be necessary at that time. Can the Prime Minister confirm what has been said outside this hall, that it may also be relevant to discuss certain tax havens, for example. for the enterprises, if there is proper medicine at that time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2008	The overall approach, which I think we all agree on, is to find the best way to secure Norwegian jobs – to secure existing ones, and not least to create new ones, because we are going through major shifts in the Norwegian economy. When some export-oriented activities in construction are to be reduced, there is a major shift to create the new businesses where the unemployed can get a job, and that they come to new jobs as soon as possible. Then I will not exclude any measures. We have focused most on the measures we know to have a rapid impact: construction and public expenditure. It also targets the private sector through private construction operations. What we've said no to is doing something that's unsocial by reversing the social conversion of the inheritance tax, there over 90 pst. are relieved and a minority is sharpened. We believe that what's done on property taxes is also social. For others, we do not exclude discussing other measures, including tax measures, but we will choose the measures that work best for employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2015	I would like to repeat my question from now on, whether the Prime Minister thinks it is okay that the Stortinget is today invited to take a decision on a government budget for next year that is based on completely wrong forecasts compared to up-to-date forecasts that have come from all other bodies than the Government. It is a bit serious when we stand here and have a financial debate, a debate on the government budget for next year, and the debate – the intervention of the Prime Minister, the intervention of the Minister of Finance – is about everything but the budget. This means that many of the instruments in the budget will not have the power that the government thought when it presented the budget in October. And when the Storting has been given predictions of unemployment, economic growth and a number of other things that obviously have to be crazy, did one not show a little greater respect for the Storting by at least wanting to update those forecasts – or at least admit that they are crazy? I do not feel the will to any of the parts of the Government, and I feel that a little arrogant.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2022	Forecasts are always uncertain, and it is always the case that the Government is providing new forecasts for the size of the budget year. Normally, we present new forecasts, adjusted forecasts that differ from those that were produced in the spring, in revised national budgets, a few months out in the budget year. What we're doing now is we're notifying that we'll review the forecasts earlier. Instead of waiting for spring with new forecasts, there will be new forecasts and new measures for winter. There is more uncertainty about the forecasts now than before. So we're notifying new forecasts faster. But the important thing is that it is not right when the representative Jensen says that e.g. I didn't talk about the state budget. I showed that the State budget is a comprehensive package of measures to combat unemployment. The State budget has a comprehensive description of the financial crisis. It describes in detail how the financial crisis will affect Norway and the Norwegian economy in many different ways, and we justify an expansive budget precisely with the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2029	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2032	As others have pointed out, we now have an exceptional economic situation that requires exceptional measures. The Progress Party has adapted its alternative state budget to the situation we are facing. Now the economic situation is serious in many ways. It's serious because it's uncertain how things will evolve further. Of course, it's serious because we're already seeing that private consumption is being reduced, and it has several reasons. One reason is that someone loses the job — and then it is natural to reduce private consumption — others are afraid to lose their job and also reduce private consumption, and others reduce private consumption because one is uncertain about the future. Then, of course, it's important that you try to reverse that development. Then, of course, one can do what the Minister of Finance has done, encourage people to shop, not stop shopping, so that one can keep the wheels going in the machinery of society. Or one can do as the Progress Party does, put forward a government budget, an alternative government budget, with extraordinary tax and tax credits that stimulate people to act more and thus sustain private consumption, so that one does not get a big drop because of the uncertainty that has been created. We have social tax cuts. So it's not like Olav Akselsen's claim that they're approx. $30 billion in tax and tax cuts is unsocial tax cuts. It's social tax cuts, and so the majority of these tax cuts are for people with normal incomes. It is that those with the lowest income receive a higher percentage of tax relief than those with high incomes. For example, if you think of $50,000, you get $2,600 in tax bills, and if you think of $450,000, you get $9,000 in tax bills, and you get $1,000 in tax bills. I guess I'll get $14,000 in taxes. Of course, the sum of taxes in dollars is the highest for those with high incomes, but the percentage is the greatest for those with low incomes. That's what we think right and sensible, both because those who have low incomes are fueling tax cuts more, and because it's actually also right in the situation we're in, giving tax relief to those with lower and more common incomes. It will also lead to faster circulation in the economy. Giving tax relief to those with very high incomes will result in a lot of savings. If you give tax relief to those with lower and more common revenues, most of the tax will be in circulation in the economy. That's very good in the situation we're in right now. In addition to that, we propose to completely eliminate the inheritance fee. We think that is a good measure. We also want to reduce car-related charges by a total of NOK 5 billion. We want to reduce the electricity charge. It's also a social measure. For those with low incomes, this will mean far more than for those with very high incomes. In addition, we have a reduction in the document fee, which today is 2.5 pst. We're reducing it to 2 pst. In the past, there has been opposition to a reduction in document fees due to the fact that the prices of housing and property will be pushed upwards. We're not so afraid, at least not in this situation of falling housing prices. That's why, unlike the government party, we have an alternative government budget that's adapted to the situation we're going into. We are also pleased that our alternative state budget will lead to lower unemployment than the government budget proposed by the government party and approved. What is sad, then, is that the Progress Party does not have an impact on its actions and proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2051	The financial debate is probably more important this year than it has been in years. The world has rarely experienced more uncertain economic times, and the need for a governance government in Norway is great. The government follows the economic situation from day to day and has several packages of measures to normalise the situation. As the government has already warned, there will be a real economic package in the new year. We're taking action to build the country in the budget for next year. We are investing in modern infrastructure: rail, road and broadband. We strengthen the maintenance of schools, churches and halls. We strengthen community institutions and local welfare: care for the elderly, schools and kindergartens. All tasks have not been solved, but we are on the right track. We use the big money to build the community and to build the country. Community economics and social affairs are examples of very important areas in which we are now involved. These areas have been prioritised in the annual budgets following the government change. In the 2009 state budget, the transport sector is one of the clearest winners. Based on the situation in the construction market, the transport sector is also among the areas that are particularly relevant for new measures from the Government in 2009. The government has proposed a 2009 budget for trade, which is among the best in history. Including the 2009 budget proposal, the government has pledged approximately $10.7 billion in 2009 more to the road and track than the level of the last draft budget by the Bondevik II Government. As the first government, we have even over-filled the financial framework for the four-year period in the national transport plan. Who would have kept a hundred notes on it when we started in this government? Very few, I think, on the basis of the food that has been fed to the commercial sector before. We also have a grip on the acceleration of the maintenance system. A total of 1.9 billion dollars is allocated to road and rail operations and maintenance than the financial envelope of the national transport plan 2006-2009. In the case of roads, emphasis has been placed on increased coverage/asphalt, while in the case of railways the emphasis has been on increased maintenance in the Oslo area and in the Oslo tunnel, which has an enormous amount to say for traffic on the whole network. The party of progress operates in its alternative state budget as usual in a different economic value than the other parties on the Stortinget. The right's emphasis on pursuing a responsible economic policy, in combination with the cash rejection of cooperation with the Progress Party by the Left and the Christian People's Party, makes it difficult to see a credible government option among the parties in the opposition. In the field of transport, the Progress Party must be able to call it creative accounting with ordinary licenses, fund solutions, government loans and foreign budgets as part of the ingredients. Agriculture and assistance are among the budget areas that the Progress Party wants to cut to the bone. There is not much invited to cooperate with anyone in the external line of the Progress Party. Perhaps one might say that the Progress Party appears primarily as a protest party. The financial crisis must be an excuse for all right-wing parties that are in favour of more freedom from the forces of money and less governance of the people. In countries by country, the powers of government now have to take action to save the financial sector. Most people see that the right party's message about less popular governance is the wrong way to go. There can be no full overview of what will happen internationally in the days, weeks and months to come. Of course, in the government party, we are following this development very seriously. I don't think the opposition part knows more than the government knows what will happen. Nobody has a fascination today. So I think that in the political environment we should all be a little soft in this situation. At the same time, people should know that we in the Government are taking action to secure people's work and income, so that they have security for the house and home. I am pleased that the Center Party is part of a government that takes responsibility, which can show good results, and which still has great ambitions. The debate today shows that the budget does not take the height of the situation in which we live. I would like to say that, for the purpose of tourism, there are great potentials in the next year's budget for increased activity, to give work to many people in private businesses across the country. It is important for those concerned, those who are today uncertain about the future, to have a government that has warned that one will come up with additional measures to ensure people's work and security for homes and homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2077	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2080	First, I would be allowed to say that I am proud to belong to a protest party that maintains the areas that the Central Party has failed for many years, and that has a lag of several hundred billion dollars in Norwegian infrastructure. I'm also very pleased that we belong to another world. I note today that some, very prominent, economists in Norway claim that history will show that the alternative state budget of the Progress Party is exactly the right medicine for the situation we are facing. So I'm happy with that. In the questionnaire a week ago, the Prime Minister stated that he had recorded that there would be a great deal of time off in the construction industry, which he accepted. There was something we had to expect, and these works had to find something else to do. My question is: does the Council of State share the Prime Minister's opinions in this Questionnaire?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2092	I have recorded that the Prime Minister yesterday — and today — warned that the Government will come up with measures that will mean additional employment both for construction and for other important sectors of industry in Norway. I place great trust in the Prime Minister's statements in this Chamber, and together with the Prime Minister, I want to work actively to reduce the number of jobs, including in the construction sector, with the importance it has for individuals, families and entire businesses. Therefore, I am asked in my portfolio to look at what we can develop, what can be started, and what can create activity around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2099	I am here with a list of projects that have not been included in the action programme of the State Road Administration for the four-year period we are leaving. There are 29 projects – a total of NOK 2.3 billion. Is that overfulfillment? No, it's a lack of fulfillment. The rhetorical mantra is, however, that the budget is making greater efforts on roads. It says both Stoltenberg and Navarsete. No, it doesn't, simply because the cost increase is much larger than the allocation framework. Therefore, this is an incorrect claim. I have previously confronted the Council of State that fewer kilometres of road are being built and asphalted less than in previous years. Then the Council of State called it a foolish comparison. But I take the chance again and ask the government council: does the government have plans to increase the expansion capacity in the road sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2106	The statistics that Right has compiled, based on the number of open road meters, say nothing about the activity. The road that the King opened a few days ago in Eastfold was built several years ago. So he was designed, so he was out on offer, and then he was built, and then he happened to be open in 2009 – or, not at all, it was actually planned, and very good work – but it could have been next year, and then we would have had x meters less road. That's why I'm saying there's one -- I'm not going to use the word "bad" -- terrible scale. Maybe it's not the right word use either, but at least it was a bad scale. We are investing in traffic, we are investing in increased activity – and yes, the price increase was high from 2007 to 2008, but neither the Right nor the Government can say that we should have a corresponding cost increase in 2009. Everything suggests that the cost growth also falls like a rock.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2113	We have an offensive Minister of Transport who has been out there promising the bet of the times on the way, and that was just after the Prime Minister was out there promising the bet of the times. It was then in view of the national transport plan. When you're so offensive, and when you plan to spend so much money, the Christian People's Party surprises you that you're so slow to get started – now that we're in a situation where you really have the opportunity to spend money. We have asked several times why none of these funds came, so that we could have taken them into the budget now. But leave it. I expect that we will get a real commitment to transportation in the package that will come during the month of February. I want to challenge the Minister of Racial Security and on walking and cycling roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2122	The Christian People's Party and the Government are some of them that we have to bet more on social affairs. It's very good to have an opposition that's impatient and pushes the Secretary of State in the back. It's necessary. Both racial protection and walking and cycling pathways will clearly be measures that, together with the rest of the transport sector, will be assessed in the context of an additional exercise and which will also create jobs and activity. There is no doubt that smaller projects – road safety projects, minor improvements to the road network and the rail network, and pedestrian and cycle roads – have a high level of socio-economic profitability and mean a great deal to people as well as the ability to employ many people. It will clearly be measures that will be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2129	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2132	It must be allowed to say at the close of this morning's sitting that there is something particularly surreal about this debate. So we are discussing a budget that is hardly going to be implemented. Everyone is talking about the need for changes to the budget, but no changes are being adopted. At the latest at the turn of the line, Minister of Transport and Head of the Central Party, Navarsete, said that she is putting her hopes into the changes in the budget that are coming. On the question of whether the proposed budget is enough to keep employment up in the civil engineering sector, she answers that there will be more money. So it's a special debate. With regard to the government's handling of the economic crisis, from the presentation of the state budget on 7 October to now, I have to say, after a couple of decades in the Great Britain and having seen some governments come and go, and crises come and be solved, that the makeup of the ugly and clumsy way of meeting the economic crisis is to be looked for a long time in Europe. In recent days, it has been shown that it has been easier to pool consensus among 27 EU countries on crisis measures in the amount of NOK 1 800 billion over own budgets and in the European Investment Bank than it has been for the Norwegian Government to gather on measures. We have heard that the majority government has for a long time said that the budget is well adapted to the economic situation – but it only lasted from 7 October to yesterday, 26 November. So now it's not anymore. We don't know what to do. It's not the government's intention to break up for us. In this situation, almost all countries around us have presented changes in their own budget — for example, in the United Kingdom. the Finnish government, although the crisis may strike slightly less in Finland than in some other Nordic countries. The plural rule that we now see, and which was to solve the most, now seems in its last year to bear more and more the mark of paralysis. I think it is directly embarrassing, at least on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, if I may say so, that we have a finance minister going around saying – I refer to yesterday's TV debate in the NRK – that there is no basis for new forecasts now. Of course you do. Forecasts are available from all the institutions used by the Ministry of Finance to produce its own forecasts: the Bank of Norway, the Central Statistical Office, the OECD, the IMF and several banks. This is the basis for the Ministry of Finance's own discretion, and that discretion has the same competence today as last year, years ago and years ago. It is simply a matter of political will to put forward something. I see as I see cracking statements in the media, that there's an internal disagreement in the government that's why you have to run this game, and pretend you have a budget that's well adapted. Everyone knows today that we are adopting a budget where no predictions vote – none of them vote. You could say that predictions usually don't match exactly. But to put it this way, there's now so much distance between what the forecaster has recently put forward in its forecasts, and what the government stands for, that it's going to be huge. I agree with the Government that it is important that the instrument no. 1 is to get the interest rate down. The right alternative budget uses more oil money in relation to the Government, in relation to the budget for the current year and in relation to our 2009 proposal. It is based on the uncertainty that more expansive will delay or reduce an interest rate decrease. We share that uncertainty, and we put ourselves on the government line in this area. I note that the debate already presupposes that budgetary changes will significantly break the rule of action. It has happened before, and it has given good economic results to meet downtime. When you say that the budget is well adapted, you try to avoid the fact that the expansion measured as an oil-corrected deficit in the percentage of mainland Norway's GDP is unchanged from the current year and next year. It is not possible to talk aside that there is of course a comparison that does not hold, in the sense that to meet new times with completely dramatic downturn forecasts, one must be willing to look at the expansiveness of the budget. And it will be done. I have some experience from the past in turning down to the rise in the economy. I think it is important to bring a couple of good experiences. One is to stimulate household demand. It works fast. Households are relative to GDP for a demand effect of well over 60-70 p.p. Without stimulating households — both through direct and indirect tax relief — there is no early rise. Incentives to industry in the long term are important, because when the rise is really manifested again, it is important that businesses have the capacity and capacity to invest and are not hit by a pessimism, which is often the result of tax increases targeting businesses or the owners of businesses. It is also important that there is a balance between measures, both short-term and long-term, between the public and private sectors, and that there is no one-sided temptation to stimulate the public sector through, for example. labour market measures, which tend to act more than activize. It shows the experience of previous periods of high unemployment. When it comes to stimulating business, I want to point out three important things. I can start with a statement by the Minister of Finance, that increasing depreciation rates for industry is a suitable measure for economic downturns. This opinion provided the Minister of Finance with the reasons why such an action was taken in the autumn of 2005 — because it was then in an upswing period. Her opinion should now be an incentive to propose it in the package that comes in February to March. Incentives to increased investment in research and education, at least return the money taken from the university and higher education sectors, are quite important. We know that with increasing unemployment, the search for the higher education sector will increase. Then it's a bad signal that the universities for the second half of next year cut the student admission. When the financial crisis is there, the banks tighten up the credit. Then it makes sense, as suggested in the Right's proposal, to look at new state seed funds, targeting the phase in which businesses really have funding problems. From idea to real success on the stock exchange it takes some time. There's not so many people waiting to lend you a loan. Finally, SV has made it a specialty in this debate to tell us that the taxes on businesses do not increase – only the taxes on the owners of the enterprises are added. But there must be limits to naivety! Do you really believe that corporate owners who are taxed more because of inheritance, or perhaps more so because of increased taxes on wealth, will not be allowed to lose out on the equity held in the enterprises? This context is obvious. It has the effect that in good times business owners become richer when businesses become richer, but then their ability to invest is also greater. So this context, that increased taxation of owners also leads to a reduction in equity – i.e. equity withdrawals to pay the increased tax – is obvious. I say this with the address of SV, because I have noticed that the changes to the property tax rules and inheritance tax rules, which involve increased taxation, are not proposals that the Workers' Party has previously promoted. The 80 percent rule has, for example: The working party lived with them for many years, both when they were in position and when they were in opposition. In budgetary conciliation with the Bondevik II government, for example, there was never a requirement for this to be done. This is an option that is suitable for SV's national government and the nomination process. At least it has nothing to do with timing compared to the economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2164	The President would point out that words such as 'fumble' and 'clumsy' are hardly fit for parliamentary expression. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2169	The right is very concerned with the proper use of oil money, and that's good. In their alternative budget, they boast that they have spent less oil money than the government in the last three years. Nevertheless, the Right wants to go to government with the Advance Party, a party that spends more than 30 billion dollars on oil money. Then is my question to the representative Per-Kristian Foss: Can he guarantee that the Right will not follow the economic policy of the Advance Party, even if one should come in such a situation that the Advance Party was larger than the Right in any government cooperation? Is government cooperation with the Progress Party more important than responsible policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2176	The answer is no. I would like to elaborate on that a little bit by saying that increased oil money use, in addition to the rule of action in a given situation, may make sense to stimulate in a period of decline. We've done that with Hell. But then the stimulus has to be properly structured, so that you get back on reasonable oil money when you are in balance again – so to speak, when downtimes are turned to risetimes. Then there has to be an oil money use that is geared towards increasing employment, both in the public and private sectors. It is the economic policy of the Right. I am recording that more and more questions in the line changes require that the election is basically lost next year for the government parties. It's just a little bit of an interesting observation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2183	I may think that the Per-Kristian Foss representative was moving down to a political low when he referred to politics as both obscene, clumsy and directly embarrassing. I thought that when someone opposes what the representative himself said about the uncertainty that lies in the future, as the reason why the Right self is setting up its budget with the same use of oil money as the Government is doing, the characteristics of his own party are certainly just as appropriate – especially when you look at how the Right has acted here on the Storting during all the debates we have had on the various crisis measures. When we have submitted various proposals, the Right has very clearly said: bring matters this way, we are satisfied, inform us, involve us, take us along, we are willing to go through these matters quickly. When we then prepare our work plan for how to do this in the future, and invite the opposition to join in, I think it would have been a lot more appealing with a decent Right-Man, like Per-Christian Foss – if he were.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2191	The president has doubts as to whether that kind of characteristic belongs in the staging room.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2194	Well, thank you, President, I really think so. It would have been possible to change the budget presented by an additional proposal without increasing the use of oil money — so-called re-prioritisation. It's demanding in a coalition government -- I know a lot about it -- but it's possible. To the crisis measures to which the representative otherwise referred: Well, when we put up and basically called for crisis measures to meet the bank's liquidity problems, it was not a big imagination to see that there had to be F loans, state guarantees, state certificates, etc. We think the government came late, but it came well, and we set up. We didn't make political trouble out of it, but we set up and supported the government. In such a situation, I think it's quite important that parties show the ability to stand together without too much polemics or "fuss", or fights. Similarly, we have set up now, when the Government has taken action against the state banks, GIEC, etc. to ensure that their activities do not stop completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2203	It was a bitter criticism from the former Minister of Finance on how it is being run today. As far as I know, no one has said anything but that the forecasts that have been made need to be changed. There is no one who does not see what is happening in business and employment, and there need to be significant changes to that. If the bitter criticism from the Right had been followed up in practice, it should have led to a more expansive fiscal policy. If we don't have time to pursue a more expansive fiscal policy now, it's going to be very difficult. To the right, re-priorities are called: the main re-priority of the agricultural agreement is completely unprofessional. It cannot be implemented. What surprises me is that the former Minister of Finance of the Right did not leave a course for future production life in Norway, so that we should not fall back on the fact that the transition is on roads that are not sustainable in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2214	If I've given the impression of being bitter, it's completely wrong. But I'm critical of what the government fails to do, and a little bit of what the government does. The sins of avoidance are the worst. We have identified a course to promote active, viable production life in Norway in the years to come, by promoting culture – road and rail – by focusing on education, research and development and by focusing on tax incentives such as: has also been taken from the Central Party programme. I wonder about a party that believes that there should be no wealth tax on working capital, and that then does the opposite in a coalition of socialist parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2223	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2226	Iraq’s former dictator, Saddam Hussein, had a press spokesman named ‘Comic Ali’. He got his nickname because he said on live television that there wasn't a single American soldier in Baghdad – despite the fact that the TV viewers could observe American tanks that drove past in the background. The 2009 government budget is based on the following economic forecasts, which are mentioned many times today: growth in the domestic economy of 2 pst. household consumption growth of 2,5 pst. pay growth of 5 pst. growth in unemployment at 1⁄4 pst. employment growth of 10 000 persons in real terms in municipal income of 3 pst. There are no tanks here! Despite the government's persistent efforts to adapt the terrain to the map, it turned out that the government was becoming more and more wild. When the Central Bureau of Statistics, the Bank of Norway, the Nav, the trade union movement and the NHO told us that economic growth is falling dramatically, unemployment is rising considerably, and investment is halting, it was no longer possible for the Government to stand on its feet. And when export-oriented businesses report a reduction in demand, while the trading world is experiencing a growing failure in trade, it can no longer be claimed that American soldiers are on the other side of Tigris. All indications that Norway may be on the road to travel are present. Nevertheless, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister doubted the illusion that the budget is well adapted to the economic situation – until yesterday. This fall, the Minister of Finance has done his best to undermine the economic system on which our welfare is based, namely the market economy. It was a very eager finance minister who appeared in Dagsrevyen on 10 October to inform the Norwegian people that the market economy had gone down. With one, it seemed that the Minister of Finance would be able to fulfil one of the core points of the SV party programme. What the Minister for Finance has forgotten is that every penny she grants for well-being is a direct or indirect consequence of trade with other countries. Our well-being depends on our being able to create and produce goods that other countries are willing to buy. Without a market economy, Norway stops, and without international trade, no welfare crowns will be distributed. We're in extraordinary times. Extraordinary times require exceptional solutions. The government itself has admitted that the budget does not take this into account. Throughout the harvest, the government has been driven from hill to hill. The opposition has encouraged and challenged the Government to promote an additional proposition in relation to the budget. This has been rejected by the Government. While the Prime Minister has told the Norwegian people that the Government is awaiting the situation, thousands of workers have been pushed into unemployment. Not all these jobs can or should not be saved by public action packages. In a dynamic market economy, long-term transition will draw the labour force to the areas that need it the most. However, what we are experiencing today is that liquidity, credit and not least market confidence are gone, and it is then possible for the public sector to use the labour force that the private sector does not want to employ. We are faced with the following scenario: construction forecasts of an investment reduction of DKK 40 billion, which may lead to up to 60 000 job losses in the industry and related industries Norway is in a unique financial situation municipal infrastructure has a maintenance kit of DKK 142 billion In other words, a lot of work done, free hands and enough capital. Then there is no reason to let hundreds of construction workers go into the festival without having a job to go back to. People are worried about their own economy, and more and more people are choosing to limit their own consumption. This is also in line with the SV party programme, but a point that the Minister of Finance has addressed. The government should therefore stimulate the private economy by allowing people with lower and medium incomes to retain more of their own income. This will provide people with economic security and, at the same time, improve the prospects for the commercial industry. Tax relief for lower and middle incomes will be a targeted, fast-acting measure which will at the same time create new optimism in each individual and in the business world. The Progress Party hereby invites the Minister of Finance to package the announced package of measures long before Christmas evening and join us on a power roof for the maintenance of municipal infrastructure combined with solid tax and tax relief for those who have at least before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2289	The population along the coast is used to ups and downs in life. Over time, weather and good and bad years in fisheries have been critical of how people have been. Many coastal communities and businesses still depend entirely on fishing. But equally important for the coast are policy framework conditions, access to capital and developments in the countries purchasing fish from Norway. The coast and fishing industry have now had many good years. Export records have been set, the profitability of most parts of the fisheries and aquaculture industry has been good, and several of our fish stocks are at a historically high level. The fight against overfishing is in the process of being won, bringing back to the Community billions of dollars and increased quotas. This has benefited the entire coast, but it is particularly important for North Norway, where many of our most fishing-dependent communities are located. Although there are still many challenges to address in the north, the situation is quite different now from that it was four to five years ago, when the coast lay down due to the collapse of the fishing industry. It is therefore nice to be able to read headlines such as ‘All earn money’ – an article on Berlevag, which is built south of life, and the ‘By-catch scheme — a success’ – about Kjöllefjord, where it is reported that it is again in the 1970s, only at a slightly higher pace. And it is not least satisfactory that the start of new fishing industry workplaces in Vardø is now announced. Enterprises that want to bet, and individuals who are on, are absolutely necessary to achieve a positive development in the north. But it doesn't matter which policy is being pursued. The market alone will never be able to contribute to growth and development along the coast. Political commitment and willingness to bet is crucial. It's about seeing politics in a context. It is about pursuing a responsible economic policy, which does not jeopardize the export industries. It is about having a fisheries policy to contribute to activity throughout the country, a visible north-eastern policy, a good local economy, secure market access for fish and to pursue an active industrial policy. Then it is about the very specific projects, such as the development of broadband networks, the creation of bias between health businesses, the development of ports such as Gryllefjord and Stamsund and the deployment of marine bio-prospecting – all of which are examples of actions that contribute to development, and which had not come without their political priority. The financial crisis brings uncertainty, including for North Norway, to the coast and to the fishing industry. The government is fundamentally concerned with securing people's jobs. For the fisheries and aquaculture industry, the main challenge is access to capital and credit. Therefore, the package of measures presented last Sunday was very important. The marine sector is the largest user of the low-risk loan scheme in Innovation Norway, which is now reinforced by DKK 1 billion. The strengthening of the GIEK 50 billion framework is also important for large parts of the fishing industry because GIEK ensures large quantities of fish exported. In recent days, the opposition has called for state action packages. It's very interesting to notice the tone, which is very different now than four to five years ago when large parts of the coast lay fallow. Quite exactly four years ago, I attended a meeting organised between the National Subcommittee of North Norway and the then Bondevik II government, where the North Norwegian region just took up the situation on the coast and called for action from the Government. The answer we then received from the Bondevik administration was simple: find something other than fish. They were also told not to call the state. It will never be this government's answer. We're going to put in place the measures that are needed, where they are needed, and when they are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2306	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2309	The financial crisis has also affected the fishing industry. On 3 November I sent a written question to the Minister for Fisheries about what the Minister for Fisheries would do to help the fishing industry. The answer I received from the Council of State at the time was that the Government would not do anything at all. Following pressure from the Progress Party, the government has reluctantly and reluctantly promoted several packages, and that is good. The problem for the fishing industry is in the area of credit and liquidity. Then is my question to the Council of State: will the fishing industry, like other export industries, be able to take full advantage of these packages with which the Government has finally come, or will there be restrictions in this way? Does the Council of State consider that new measures are needed until next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2316	My department and I have a very close dialogue with the fisheries and aquaculture industry. They've been busy with one thing, and it's that the banking system has to work, that interest rates have to go down, and that they need access to capital and credit. Both the bank package that the government presented earlier this autumn and the package that was presented on Sunday, meet the needs. Of course, we need to have a close dialogue with the fisheries and aquaculture industry and the marine sector and will also be following the situation in the coming period and taking further action if necessary, in line with other industries. I also feel that the fisheries and aquaculture industry is satisfied with the efforts of the Government so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2323	The councils must have problems with their memory if she does not remember that the centre-right government set up for the coast and for Finnmark. Secondly, it is absolutely right that the financial crisis and the recession will also hit Coast Norway. One of the consequences seems to be Iceland’s application for EU membership. This could be a specific challenge for the fisheries sector. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is how she assesses the impact of an Icelandic EU membership. This means that Norway will no longer just negotiate with Iceland, but will have to negotiate with an Iceland that has the EU in its back.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2331	Firstly, I must correct Mr Sanner's description of the efforts of the previous government towards Finnmark. Right-leader Erna Solberg attended the meeting that I talked about in my post, and she said to the media after the meeting that Finnmark County Council had to fold up the sleeves and get the stores to do something else instead of yelling at the state and waiting for new fishing industry jobs. The Bondevik II government was then forced to grant a total of 75 million. kr to Finnmark after today's red-green government parties had submitted proposals for far higher amounts. On the issue of possible Icelandic EU membership and consequences for the fishing industry, we will have to adjust to it and take action in relation to it if that situation arises. Now it is about securing credit and access to capital for the Norwegian fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2338	What is needed now is a targeted commitment to the future, to the innovative, environment-friendly and climate-friendly business, and not least to a high level of knowledge and research. It has also been the conclusion of an industrial conference in Hammerfest this week. Even with an international financial crisis, Norway’s ability to invest in the future remains very high. This is done by focusing on knowledge and new ideas, through robust allocations and long-term commitment to education, research and business. This is not least the case in the area managed by the Council of State on a daily basis, namely the development of new knowledge and products in the fisheries and maritime sectors. Unfortunately, the government has chosen a rather defensive and slightly forward-looking policy, and the consequence can be among other things. becoming less innovative and less able to finance future well-being. For the Left, it is therefore inexplicable that the Government continues to suffocate research and universities, even with today's attempts to compensate some of the increased costs next year. Can the Council of State explain why it is set up to meet the future with ever-increasing cutting and cutting-off in the research and university sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2347	I must be allowed to remind the representative Lyskleatt that next year's budget contains a significant strengthening of the research sector as such, and that is also the part of the research that concerns the marine sector. There is a strengthening of the Mariano programme and a strengthening of marine bio-prospecting. Furthermore, there is the design of an ice-going research vessel in the north, and we are continuing the marine value creation program that is not least important in these times. In addition, there is also other important research in the north that I assume the representative Lysklätt is concerned about. A new ice centre is established in Tromsø, and the funding for the Energy Campus in Hammerfest is strengthened. I am very pleased with the government's research efforts both in general, in general and in marine research and in northern research.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2354	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2357	The Prime Minister has recently told the Storting that he is travelling around, high and low and talking to small and large businesses. The reports he receives are that the budget presented at the beginning of October, which was planned for the future, is very well adapted. The companies also tell him, as I can understand, that they are particularly pleased with the tax increases for 2009. Such a statement, in addition to the strange financial debate we have here today, can cause anyone to stumble. We are going to debate a budget where the position in the vote will be adopted in a few hours' time, but yesterday they directed an exercise in which they said no, the budget is probably not as well adapted anyway, we are nevertheless concerned, and we have to send a message to the Government – which immediately returns this and says that they are also concerned. This is thought-provoking, and especially when the position moves 100 million. kr in its position after, as I understood, towing for perhaps several days, with light snowflakes of small amounts for a number of good purposes, while they have not been able until yesterday to express the concern that the committee's chairman then contributed to the state council. Then here too we hear today that a package has arrived. I hear the Labour Party's parliamentary leader say that there is now a package of measures. But it's not done at all. A press release has come to say that a package of measures will be delivered in the winter. This is important, because there is uncertainty – uncertainty about credit, finance and what will become the assumptions. This press release only spreads more uncertainty. The companies do not know what to do during the winter. They only know one thing, and that's that they're going to get tax cuts. Otherwise, they go into the new year with their new budgets, completely without any idea of what is going to happen. We have heard trends from state councils here today that there is going to be a fight here over which state councils are going to get what money. The right has offered to contribute to a joint settlement here, but has been arrogantly rejected by the position. I now hear a little bit different signals from the Prime Minister, and I think it might be a bit further. The right alternative budget is also not the solution to all the problems we are facing, but we have at least tried to point a different direction in our alternative, by prioritizing knowledge, road construction and not least lower budgets. We know that without safe businesses and safe jobs there will be no security for well-being either. Big tax increases while we go into a period of decline are wrong medicine. There are no increased costs for the companies we now need. There are measures that reduce costs, stimulate demand and enable enterprises to survive and secure jobs. Looking at the budgetary position available, it is immediately apparent that the opposition parties agree on many important issues, both in fiscal policy and otherwise. One does not agree in a large and small way, but in an alternative direction. I think this is a good promise for future cooperation, and both the comments that lie, and the proposals that lie, show that we agree to find practical solutions, and that it is more important than ideology and rhetorical jaws, which seem to be the ideals of position. I think that is a good starting point for a political cooperation that we might see later. The government will have to find measures to save jobs. However, it is difficult to find measures to stimulate and save jobs if, at the same time, one has the option that capital owners should not make money and preferably increase their costs. If you find that exercise so difficult that – let me say – it becomes too difficult, I recommend the measures that the Right has in its alternative budget. There we have good measures, adapted to the situation that comes. I confess that they are about giving companies better conditions by removing the tax cuts that have come. But we're happy to contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2376	The regulatory time for the morning meeting is approaching its end. However, the President will propose that we go beyond the regulatory time, so that we can bring the change of words with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2379	I thank you for that. I would like to express my condolences to those who have been terrorized in Mumbai today from this pulpit in a day like this. That is probably an example of the importance of combating international terrorism. Our compassion goes to the affected – all the relatives and the Indian people who again experience terror and fear of terror create. Then I will open up by commenting on the representative Foss, who made several suggestions on what a budget should look like, but he said among other things. that this budget was virtually useless in the light of the fact that action would be taken later. I find it strange that a former Minister of Finance, who also sent greetings to the Ministry of Finance, says so, because it is a broad and comprehensive budget that is now due to enter into force on 1 January 2009. One of the areas where this budget is going to continue is the North. I am pleased that an overall increase now agrees on the investment in the northern regions, sees the importance of putting the whole range of North-Area issues on the agenda, both nationally and in relation to our partners and important countries of cooperation. I would like to point out that last week the European Commission presented its communication on the Arctic. We recognise a lot of Norwegian politics and Norwegian positions in that communication. I believe that we have succeeded, including the Members of Parliament, in influencing the European position on the importance of the Arctic. This is because they look at Norway, which is involved in setting this important agenda with activity, knowledge and presence. In this budget, we are strengthening our efforts in the strategic north, following the 22 points of the strategy we put forward on 1 January 2006, by 514 million. D in several departments. Never before has so much been invested in the northern regions. There's been a lot of talk about the need for a North Billion. I have said, for my part, that we must not be blind to such token amounts, but we can see that over three budgets have reached one billion, and we have therefore also shown over a broad front that we are in the process of making a targeted effort. I was in Tromsø two days ago, with the National European Forum, an exciting discussion about the EU and the North and the Arctic that reflected some of the first thing I said. I was in Kirkenes yesterday, where I, among other things, witnessed some of the measures that are now coming. Let me briefly mention as an example: in the Church there was agreement between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the shipping industry to establish a split layer around a professorate of maritime logistics. It is an example of meeting with knowledge the challenge of increasing transport along our coast, perhaps also as a result of climate change and new open-ended shipowners. It is a Public Private Cooperation, it involves the University of Bodø, the Business Economics Institute, teaching places in Russia, i.e. also a potential Norwegian-Russian project. This is an example of what Barents 2020 can do, which has some millions every year, and has built up some kind of financial resource to support research and knowledge projects that close research gaps. There is an exciting and new form of cooperation that will contribute to providing the right level of knowledge in an area of great importance to the north. Then comes the National Transport Plan. In addition, we look at the broader strategic challenges to infrastructure that may require increased activity at sea, both through transport and through energy. Then I also attended the conference organised by the Norwegian Research Council yesterday and today in the Kirkenes on research and the North. Here, too, the results of increased appropriations, increased focus on strategic research in this area, where Norway has the ambition – almost as a mandate – to be on the front line. Towards the end of the year, the International Polar Year, which has passed over two years, is the end. There is an historic commitment to polar research, and it will be the Government's ambition that when we hand over our presidency to the Arctic Council in the spring, in April, we will also get to a powerful end to the International Polar Year, which makes it not a one-off event, but that the important research projects can also be carried on. I'm glad that there's a broad consensus about investing in the north, and that there are appropriations for knowledge and activity. These are things that will come into force from 1 January 2009 and therefore express the fact that this budget, which is an expansive budget, will also have an impact on this important strategic effort for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2405	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2408	The Progress Party welcomes the attention of the Foreign Minister and the Government of the North. I want to raise another question. Today it became known that the United Nations has asked for Norwegian soldiers to go to Congo. I record that politicians from both the Senterpartiet and SV expect and demand that Norway send soldiers. However, the Minister of Defense says that there are no soldiers to send – Norway has no standing forces, she says to the NRK today. I'm not going to get involved in how the different red-green politicians look at it, they're going to figure it out by themselves. But I want to challenge the Foreign Minister for the demise I want to say we've had in Defense in recent years, which has made us in a very difficult situation where we hardly have a single Norwegian soldier to deal with, no matter what international crisis that might arise outside the country's borders. Is it not now necessary to put in place a more robust defense, including more soldiers to the Army, than what this Government adds?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2415	First I would say that this government adds up to an extension of the Army. We have strengthened the defence resources for the first time in a long time, and that is wise policy. The point made by the Minister of Defence was that Norway had no standing forces, i.e. not combatants who, from one day to another, may travel to a conflict area in which they have never been. However, the UN's approach needs to be considered very seriously. We're going to go through what we have of opportunities to help the United Nations. It's not just the Congo. We've also had dialogue about Chad. It is no secret that this government in the Soria Moria Declaration has the ambition to increase support for UN operations, which are now very low in relation to how it has been historically. I want to say that what is different from the 1990s today is that we have a heavy and demanding commitment in Afghanistan that engages a lot of the operational forces Norway has for foreign missions. It's in many ways a job we have to stand by, but as I said, we're going to go thoroughly into the United Nations contact and give an answer through dialogue to the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2424	I would like to follow up on the previous question. There are several challenges in the Congo situation and possible military involvement. The basic thing is, of course, that we lack strengths, that we don't have enough capacity and that we're already tied up somewhere else. But it's also a question of what kind of mission this will be. It is often spoken as if this would be a peacekeeping mission, but as the situation on the ground in the Congo is at present, it will be a mission where one must engage in direct warfare. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs consider it expedient for Norwegian soldiers to enter into that kind of mission in Congo, or will it be a prerequisite to wait until there is something to preserve, a peace to maintain, if there is to be any participation at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2430	The representative of Solberg's question is interesting, and she is quite right that this is partly about peace-building activities, and it has not succeeded until now. It is, I think, partly because the United Nations forces have spread very widely across a land area of the size of Western Europe, while we now have the tragedy that unfolds in one part of the Congo. I can see significant dilemmas by going into that area and establishing peace, but at the same time, it is the UN dilemma that we face and that the Security Council must consider, for there is a manifest threat to regional peace and security and to the lives of people. We have the adoption of the principle responsible for protecting, so saying that it should be done by others, but at least not by the North, I do not agree. We must support here the political measures that can bring about peace that can be preserved – it was there a few years ago, now it is being smoked again. Now the UN has asked the former Nigerian President to negotiate such peace. In any case, we must support this at the same time as assessing the demands made on the military side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2437	It is quite correct that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget that we should have a bet in the north areas. The government has sent out the paper I keep here, the newsprint in October. After studying the North Region bet over time, I would say that in terms of economics, it is as thin as this paper. What you've done now is you've got to put together the amounts that would otherwise be in the budget for North Norway, for a Northern Region operation. For example, I can refer to this year's budget: seismic shooting outside the Lofoten and the West Sea: North Sea bet. Or the replacement of a power unit in the New Ålesund, a power unit you must have replaced in any case: north-area bet. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has done a very good job at the foreign policy level, but has not been brought with the other ministers, is quite concretely linked to one project that this government put to death, namely the NEW Corridor. Now that we're getting an action package, isn't it time to put in some funds to develop that project?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2444	I disagree with the premises of the representative of Sahl. I believe that all the posts here have been selected above something else – that is the challenge of priority. Seismics is chosen because it's important, it has to do with the value creation in the north. I can promise the representative Sahl that it was also important to argue for a new unit in the New Ålesund, as well as a strong upgrading of the building mass on Jan Mayen. It costs money, and it's used there instead of somewhere else. Barents 2020 is a fresh resource that could have been used elsewhere – it has been used here. So the bet is going to be $1 billion. The Northern East West Freight Corridor engages me, and the representative Sahl knows that. I work for it in diplomatic channels. However, the basic theme remains: we need to be sure that there are users, and that it is possible to obtain that transport, not only through Norway, but also through the other countries. Now, within the Northern Dimension, we will work together – the EU, Iceland, Russia and Norway – and have logistics and transport as a new area of activity. Here I have already reported that the Northern East West Freight Corridor has to become an area we celebrate attention, as well as other roads out in the ocean. So the matter will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2453	The cord shift is over. Size now pauses until noon. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker at the evening meeting is the representative Jørund Rytman.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2546	We are here today to debate and adopt the 2009 state budget and a number of representative proposals. The interesting thing is that the starting point for the debate has changed enormously in recent months, even quite a lot in recent weeks. The financial crisis, which arose in the United States, among other things, Because of the endless urge of some politicians to interfere in the market, Norway has come, which has made the state budget obsolete already when the government provided the budget. It is therefore strange to me that, despite all that has happened since the government presented its proposal to the government budget, there is no increase in the number of immediate measures in the budget to meet the financial crisis. On the other hand, the bulk of the population will make it even more difficult for business with even higher taxation, especially for family businesses. The government's tax regime makes it much more difficult to implement generational shifts and secure investment capital for owners. And what is the whole business and business community now screaming for? Well, that's capital investment. Nor does the government remove the property tax or the inheritance tax. Business and most people should be given, not deprived of capital. The government also makes it even more difficult for Norwegian brewing industries, by proposing over 60 pst. the increase in the levy on non-alcoholic beverages, despite the Government’s promise, even in writing in the Soria Moria Declaration, that ‘a change in the fees which are a disadvantage to Norwegian manufacturing workplaces, inter alia, in competition with imports’. But no then, here you're actually doing the opposite. You change the charges so that it gets even worse. I registered that the Minister of Finance now wants most people to spend more money. It is interesting that this comes from a finance minister from the Socialist Left Party. But hasn't the Minister of Finance realized that people are about to be taxed by the Minister of Finance, that much of the income that people get most is going to pay taxes and taxes to the Minister of Finance and the world's richest country? And the small thing you have left, mostly, goes to the necessary expenditure that is also heavily taxed, such as. electricity, food, gasoline, etc. – and not least interest on the mortgage. But the Minister of Finance chooses to gamble more with the tax money of people mostly on stock speculation abroad, instead of letting most people keep more of their money, and instead of spending a little more of the government surplus on investments in Norway. Meanwhile, all the other countries around the world are doing the opposite. They now provide enormous tax relief to businesses and people most. I think the government should do the same. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the representative proposal by Mr Røbekk Nørve and Mr Kongshaug that ship tunnels are treated in the same way as other infrastructure in VAT legislation, as I have been rapporteur on this matter in the Committee on Finance. As the proposers refer to, tunnels are not subject to the VAT Act § 16, first paragraph, No. 13, something that comes from that per. today no tunnels have been built in Norway. However, plans are now being made to build a ship’s tunnel, known as the City Ship’s Tunnel, which has been under investigation for a long time. A final report from the Swedish Coast Guard Agency concluded that the tunnel would provide a positive socio-economic benefit. It is therefore important to facilitate the treatment of the project in the same way as other on-shore infrastructure measures. Thus, the exemption is important to put in place, i.e. exemption from VAT at the last stage of turnover from public road planning, design, installation, repair and maintenance services. The disagreement within the Financial Committee is that the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, consider that the issue of any VAT exemption needs to be considered in more detail if the decision on the construction of the Stadstunnel is available, and therefore the Stortinget argues that the proposal for a representative is annexed to the Protocol. The minority in the Committee, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, supports the proposers and promotes the proposal that the Stortinget ask the Government to amend the VAT Act § 16, first paragraph, No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2569	This fall I have had the pleasure of meeting as an alternate. I immediately learned that the size of this period is different from what I experienced in the previous period. Then I got stuck, and that's not the difference. The difference is that we have a majority government, and that much of the political work that took place here in the Storting, and the decision-making processes have now moved out of the Storing and into the government apparatus. I notice that there are a lot of people who are willing to discuss that question. I don't intend to do that today. I still want to take this situation description as a starting point when I claim today that we see a government that actually shows a refusal of decision. The debate today would be a golden opportunity to show the environment that the government is taking the situation seriously. It could have shown, through dialogue with the Storting today, that it wants to find good solutions to the problems and challenges we see. The only concrete thing that I see coming out of the debate today is that the government is saying a bombastic and clearly no to withdraw the tax snipers that are proposed. In my opinion, that is a bad signal. Good leadership is assuming that the framework conditions change. In these days it's not just on the Storting it's working with budget. It also happens around Norwegian municipalities. It is important that municipalities are able to implement the investments planned. I am therefore satisfied with the measures taken against the Kommunalbanken, and I hope that what has been implemented in terms of export finance will have a positive effect on local government credit, so that we get a real competition in the capital market for Norwegian municipalities. The crisis has a lot to do with psychology. Therefore, it is my opinion that it is important that the municipalities in Norway maintain optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2585	The government's proposals for the 2009 government budget represent a significant investment in research and higher education. The government has proposed an increase in the appropriations for universities and higher education in the budget. This includes, inter alia: related to a continuation in 2009 of increased basic appropriations, adopted in the revised budget, of nearly 300 million. kr. In addition, funds for more than 200 recruitment posts are proposed at a higher rate from the autumn 2009 and 100 million. kr to strengthen teacher training in 2009. And start-up appropriations for new knowledge building are proposed in several places in the country. The government has also proposed a significant investment in research in the budget. This applies, inter alia, to: the creation of regional research funds of DKK 6 billion, increased capital of the Research and Innovation Fund by DKK 6 billion, research efforts in the north and in the budgets of several departments and a new investment through the return of the research fund on equipment and infrastructure. The total increase in research appropriations is proposed at DKK 1.6 billion. Since the 2009 government budget was presented in October, there has been some attention to the fact that the growth in wage costs in 2008 has been higher than the estimate contained in the 2008 budget for universities and colleges. In addition, the pension contribution for 2009 is increasing. These conditions must be seen in conjunction with the budgetary principles underlying the university and higher education sectors. It is therefore not correct, as stated earlier in the debate today, that these additional costs have been cut off by the Government. Of course they're not. Unlike most administrative bodies, institutions in the higher education sector are net budgeted. This means that institutions have greater budgetary flexibility compared to gross budgeted units. In particular, they may use external own resources freely and have access to transfer all unused funds to subsequent financial years. It is therefore assumed that net-budget operations adapt to changing framework conditions, such as the ex post growth of prices and wages may prove to be lower than the price conversion used. This is also in line with the solutions adopted by the Bondevik II Government for the net budgeted operations. When universities and later colleges went from being gross budgeted to being net budgeted, it was a formalisation of their independent status: they were given freedom with responsibility. In particular, with effect from 2003, they were to pay the employer’s share of the pension contribution to the State Pension Fund. The framework transferred to the institutions has been higher than the real rate in the last three years, without leading to a reduction in the allocation. For 2009, the State Pension Fund has announced an increase in the rate of the pension contribution to about the level at which the framework was originally at the time of the transition to net budgeting. In the case of the effects of wage settlement, the appropriations of the net budgeted institutions are not adjusted in arrears in relation to the actual outcome of the wage settlement, as is the case for gross budgeted institutions. The actual wage growth of universities and higher education institutions can therefore lie both above and below the estimated wage growth in the budget. The challenges now, at the end of the harvest semester 2008 and at the beginning of the spring semester 2009, became that the sum of a good government salary line and the warning of increased pension contributions to the State Pension Fund together became an unexpected large cost increase. The net budgeting scheme has worked well over time for the university and higher education sectors. However, in the light of the experience we now have in 2008, the Government will assess whether there is a need to look into the budgetary principles of this sector and return to such an assessment in the context of the revised national budget for 2009, as the majority of the Committee on Finance also points out in its comments. The Government is committed to the ability of universities and higher education institutions to carry out their important social tasks and to provide high-quality education and research. This is the basis for the knowledge to be disseminated and the new knowledge that society needs. That is why I am pleased to be able to inform the Storting that the Government, in connection with the ageing of the 2008 budget, is increasing the basic allocation to universities and colleges by 160 million. kr. This ensures a high level of activity and strengthens the Government’s long-term commitment to knowledge. This strengthening of the basic appropriations will be distributed across all the universities and higher education institutions of the country, and it should, in my view, be used to provide top education. This additional increase in the basic allocation for the current year provides a good starting point for the whole sector, when we are about to move into a new year, with new knowledge challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2609	Before joining the Stoltenberg Government, a demand in the university and higher education sectors of 400 million was outlined. kr. The government then answered with this rest cut, as Djupedal later referred to as a loser. Then you've restored this partition over two years. When the rest came into place now, there was a jubilee in the sector, which was again turned to despair when it was discovered that there was a shortage of 440 million.– 600 million. kr, as stated, for compensation of employees and pension costs. Today we get a 160-million Christmas present from the Government. kr. It does not even cover wage and price growth, and there is still a lack of coverage of the increased pension costs. Is the Council of State that SV of the Ministry of Knowledge has met the expectations created in this sector, through inter alia: The Soria Moria Declaration, or does she share the view that loss, lack of focus and error priorities have led to higher education having had to bleed and have suffered injury because of a lack of predictability?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2616	I believe, of course, that this government has invested in the universities and colleges in a good way, and I am very pleased that we got the cut that was in the basic appropriations already from the revised budget this year. That appropriation, the 160 million. kr, as the Government has announced today, concerns the 2008 budget, and it is not intended as any compensation for anything. I just explained from the pulpit that this is essentially the institution's own responsibility. But it was a big challenge for institutions to have a good opportunity to do their important task both this year and the year that comes. That's why I'm very happy to announce that these 160 million have now entered this year's budget. Then we'll have to continue the fight in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2623	We have today been presented with a press release saying that the Government will grant 160 million. additional to the basic appropriations for universities and higher education. It happens after the government first tried to avoid granting this money. Then you don't say anything when the budget is presented, about the wage and pension bomb that is actually in the budget, and then the opposition and the sector together are digging out the figures that now turn out to be about 400 million. kr. The government is being pushed, trying to rid the storm – it doesn't work – and so today, on the day of the financial debate, we get an additional budget of 160 million. kr. We got a balancing proposition for 2008 13 days ago for Stortinget. There was nothing about this, and the government has now clearly realised that the budget does not hold up. When this happens, it is not close enough to meet the challenges facing the sector in terms of wage and pension growth. The question is: how will the sector be able to offer good education and research in 2009 when they also have to cut their budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2632	I hope that the representative Eriksen Soreide, together with me, is happy that we have managed to find 160 million. kr to the sector in 2008. This is, as I mentioned in my article, of course transferable to 2009, and it is not meant to compensate neither for price adjustments nor for pension contributions. This is expected to be achieved by the institutions themselves, cf. my inquiry into net budgeting for the institutions. Luckily, we are working on that matter, because there are some structural problems that were discovered through this very point from the institutions, when they got their letters from the State Pension Fund and discovered that there was a huge expense here that they had not expected. So this is what we're working on to get a better structure of all the processes that have to do with pay compensation, and I'm very happy that we've put the 160 million in the year's budget, which will then help universities and colleges to do their important tasks, not least in education, both this year and next semester.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2639	After that, we have introduced ‘thank-giving’ with the Norwegian definition in the budget process of the Stortinget. But ‘thank-giving’ is not a Christmas gift, ‘thank-giving’ is not an annual budget, and although the state councils on the rise, probably, came here today and would deliver money that is not a compensation, but which should be a good comfort to stand on, the core issue is: When will the sector get the money that is missing – at the bottom of an old-fashioned rest harvest – so that operations and activities in 2009 are predictable and not marked by unrest, job vacancies and poor educational provision? When do they get the money?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2645	I want to clarify that there is no lack of money, and the government has not cut, as I heard the representative Dørum said earlier today. It is completely wrong that the government has done something cut in this budget. On the contrary, we have increased the budget both in the revised national budget and now in the age of the 2008 budget. And we've put in the full effect of the basic appropriations re-establishment of the cut in the 2009 budget. So I look optimistic towards 2009. When Dørum now talks about both wage adjustment and the emerging pension premium challenge, the expenditures incurred in 2008 and the expenditures incurred in 2009. I then choose to take the challenge of thinking about what kind of structure we have in the way we cover up any changes in salary settlement with regard to what has been included in the budget. It will be an important task for the government to do in the future in 2009, and so far I am very happy that we have got the 160 million in the sector this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2652	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2655	I think it's a bit of a strange debate we have here in Stortinget today. We've witnessed in the last few days that the government has kept coming forward with new commitments on how to resolve the financial crisis, and it can sometimes be said that the opposition is a bit twisted about it. But I think one of the reasons why you react as you do is that you had rather steep attitudes on the part of the government when the budget was presented. Among other things, we could read that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said: ‘Our proposal for a State budget will be adopted in Stortinget, so to speak, unchanged. The State budget meets the financial crisis in a good way and facilitates lower interest rates.» I think maybe it would have paid off having a slightly more humble attitude at first. Then I think this debate too would have had a different impact. This financial debate is not just about measures to resolve the financial crisis. It is about creating a budget that also has other parts to attend to. In addition to taking into account increased employment, it has been important for the Christian People's Party to also have a profile where we take care of children and provide them with safe growth conditions. The Christian People's Party has created an alternative budget, where we want to strengthen children's quality of life and growing conditions, among other things. to bet on the family, in kindergarten, in school and in child protection. The family must be strengthened as the primary and primary community of the child. The school, together with the home, will form and educate the students and equip them for life. One of the best investments we can make as a society is to invest in children's knowledge. Norway shall be a leading knowledge nation. Then we have to get out of the rest cut, and out of the building stop that the Government has introduced in the three years it has run in education policy. We have the prerequisites, but then we have to invest in both school, higher education and research. I see that the budget is called the customs budget in VG. Had it even been so well that it had been out of date in relation to the financial crisis, perhaps yes, but unfortunately a good part of the decisions made will be in force, for example. at the small school stage. This time, the Government shall extend the number of hours by two weeks without educational means, which shall be in addition to the five hours of week introduced in the autumn of 2008. The Christian People's Party believes it is much more important that resources be used to ensure that already existing hours provide better learning and to increase the number of teachers in school. That's why we're proposing to re-prioritize these funds. We also believe that there are major challenges at secondary school level. We need to get more occupational groups into that step, so we want to spend 200 million. to bring in other occupational groups right here – health nurses, advisers, environmental therapists, who can contribute to making everyday life viable for students and teachers. We think it doesn't help just having early work, if you forget your high school. In order to become a master's arena for all students, both those who are strong in theory and those who are practically strong, a much more practical everyday life needs to be offered. That's why we're proposing to allocate $70 million. kr to quality development, just at the secondary level. The number of students who do not complete secondary school is worrying. Society has failed in its mission to provide all opportunities for education and work. I think there are many good local measures that address this particular problem. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed the creation of an action post to seek support for good local action to give young people the opportunity to complete their schooling. It is in the professional fields of study that we see that we have the greatest challenges. The educational grant in our society has been silent for many years. I think that when we see the financial crisis, increasing the apprenticeship allowance will be important for more people to have a job. We have created a budget that will ensure safe growth, provide an exciting and new type of school, and that will also meet the challenges of the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2679	This year’s budget is dealt with at an international time with financial turmoil, which also poses major challenges in Norway, not least for individuals, businesses and employment. The size has recently dealt with a €350 billion package of measures for banks in record time. The main purpose is to bring the interest rate down and thus make the banking system work again. The measures are now gradually being implemented, and we see that the effects are beginning to be felt for both individuals and businesses. As the interest rate is reduced and the money market rate follows, we see that the banks have taken the signals at a reasonable price, either by lowering the lending rate or by cancelling announced interest increases. It has also been stated from some quarters today that housing loans granted to low-income groups in the United States are the main cause of the financial crisis. It is, in my view, a total distortion of the actual situation. At the end of 2007, these mortgages amounted to only 14 pst. of the total loans in the United States, and sees a share of these loans defaulted in the context of all mortgage loans in the United States, represent 1.5 pst. It's so low that it's not close to creating something we can call a financial crisis in the United States and much less creating a global financial crisis. The international financial market situation is serious and, of course, also challenging for Norway. However, we are far better rusted than many other countries, not least we have a good law and regulation that the Credit Authority is handling in a very tidy way. The biggest challenge for the future is, in my view, that we need to have a global supervisory regime that can work, thus preventing the future spread of rotten loans or loan products around the world, as today's situation started with the origins of the United States. It is somewhat surprising that the Progress Party in the current year's budget would cut 20 million. kr in the budget of the credit supervision. In their 2009 alternative budget, which was created after the financial turmoil was a fact, they are proposing to cut 12.4 million. kr, despite growing challenges. It's getting a little bit small when one thus marks the free position of market forces. We've increased the lending framework to GIEK. The government has made proposals to increase equity in the Municipal Bank, which will allow the Municipal Bank to lend municipalities around DKK 15 to 20 billion over the coming period. The Government also proposes to extend the shipbuilding loan guarantee scheme and the Loan Framework for Innovation Norway. The government has worked intensively to find quick solutions for export finance. Tonight, there was agreement on a short-term arrangement that export finance does not finance this type of loan in the market, but can get a loan from the treasury for two years to come, where the deposit volume can be about NOK 50 billion. The government has shown a great deal of action by putting in place very targeted measures quickly as the situation requires. In order to use an expression from the health system, we are medicating patients as the health status may change, and we are not basing the medication on assumptions. There is reason to recall that the measures entered in the budget actually apply from next year and do not start to work until the end of the year. Then we warn that we have a work plan that aims to develop new forecasts for the development of the Norwegian economy, and come back to Stortinget with further action in the month shift January/February. We then get more of the effects of the interest rate measures and not least the employment figures for the last part of the current year. Openness around the work plan we have has created a terrible uprising in the opposition. I get that a little bit. I have to admit that the one-sided use of the concept of crisis, both from the individual opposition party and the media, is in my opinion in favour of bringing the situation up. People are intimidated from maintaining normal consumption, which very many of us also have finances for the future. In my home arena, my wife, who I use to call the builder, always has a refurbishment project going on. Now she's wondering if she should stop the refurbishment projects because of the financial crisis. On the contrary, now it is such as her who is to keep the activity up. A kitchen bench here and a bathtub there – it will be quick work by.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2705	I said in the debate on the throne that it was naive to believe that we in our country too would not be hard hit by the global financial crisis through less demand for goods and services. We see more examples of companies and employees having to change, order access stops, and previous agreements cancel. A very high level of private consumption in the last five to six years and a shortage of labour has, paradoxically, been an obstacle to the implementation of important public tasks. The State budget has taken account of a slight decline in private consumption, thus allowing for increased efforts in key areas such as infrastructure, road and rail, and maintenance and investment in municipalities. These are areas that the Centre Party has been giving priority to for several years, including in the 2009 State Budget. But everyone knows that the state budget is not dimensioned for an enhanced negative development in the Norwegian economy, of which we now see the outlines. For this reason, the Government announces the package of measures to meet a future negative development with measures to combat, inter alia, increased unemployment. Crisis times also bear opportunities in themselves. A very high level of private consumption is not sustainable in the long term. Sustainable development must be at the heart of the replacement of jobs. Managing rather than consuming is a good tradition in the policy of the Centre Party. In a transition period, we have to think long-term and sustainable. Important objectives for policy-making shall include, inter alia: be reducing energy consumption and producing more clean energy, replacing fossil energy with renewable energy and using energy more efficiently than today. Technological developments at the intersection of environment and energy should be a priority of Norway. In the field of renewable energy, the government statement is clear and offensive, but we have not come far enough. Low energy prices do not provide sufficient incentives for operators to invest in alternative energy sources. I believe that the Government should consider more further and stronger instruments to raise renewable energy such as bioenergy and wind, solar, wave and tide power. At present, when we face challenging times, action in these areas should be promoted as areas of activity. Thus, something positive can come out of the many changes created by this financial crisis. Long-term management of natural resources and associated jobs needs to be stimulated rather than a galloping increase in private consumption. We are privileged to have the opportunity to take such important steps. It's interesting to look at the Right Cut List in the budget. One area stands out. Heikki Holmås mentioned earlier today's financial crisis and environmental crisis, but we also have a food crisis in the world. And when I mention the Right Budget, they propose a reduction in the agricultural agreement of almost 2 billion kroner. At a time of falling food prices and much lower global food production, the Right chooses to reduce Norwegian food production — at a time when up to 900 million people do not have food on the table. The financial crisis also affects food production in the world. The UN Food Organisation, FAO, estimates that food production needs to increase by about 50 pst. by 2030 to provide the world's population with adequate food. Shouldn't we, as a rich country, at least make sure to produce large parts of our own food sail? The most important thing in a very troubled and uncertain time is that people are at work. People's reluctance to make the investments they have planned is based on uncertainty about both job and interest rates. Therefore, the instruments put in place must aim at creating security, helping to create good conditions for business and at the same time at a low interest rate. Guarantee schemes and measures taken to ensure the flow of money between banks are important means of securing industry. The government has taken important steps and will continue to take important action when time demands it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2720	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2723	Parties to the government budget go into the state budget to increase taxes on non-alcoholic beverages by more than 60 pst. In Norway, sugar consumption has fallen dramatically since the turn of the millennium without the active use of taxes. The levy increase therefore appears to be introduced solely to increase the country’s revenue. However, there may be significant negative consequences for important district work places that are already experiencing a deterioration in their framework conditions due to the international economic cycle. My question to the representative of the Kärlaa is therefore: why does the Central Party want to further exacerbate the framework conditions for important district jobs by increasing the level of charges?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2730	The centre party does not want to make the situation difficult for industry or for businesses around the country. Once we have chosen to increase the sugar levy, it is because we have a serious health problem and increasing obesity problems in our country. People eat too much unhealthy food, including sugar. Diabetes is a major challenge for the adult population. So when we choose to set up the sugar levy, it's to hit the products that are particularly unhealthy to bring in. This is part of an important prevention effort that this government chooses to invest in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2737	The representative of the paper said in his article: ‘The State budget has taken account of a slight decrease in private consumption.’ The representative is absolutely right. The only problem is that this budget was presented before the financial crisis. In other words, you're going to see, for some, a dramatic decline in private consumption. And this makes the government knowingly and willfully. We had a shortage of labour ahead of the financial crisis. It has now turned to increasing unemployment, and we see from the forecasts that it will increase in the future as well. The government provides answers to this, which is the coin of the situation we saw in the early summer. Thus, the government’s response is increased tax for those who create jobs. There are increased taxes within a number of industries, which threaten Norwegian jobs. We see that the government delivers increased food prices. And we see that the NHO says the government is willing to sacrifice jobs. The question is: does it not matter to the representative of the Kärlaa that we have Norwegian jobs in Norwegian hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2751	Business is the very hub of the Norwegian economy. That is why this government has done a lot already since the government budget was presented, in order to secure the companies money through loans and guarantee schemes, a huge package to secure the cash flow between banks. The government has not sat on the fence. The government has been active to ensure that companies can have guarantee schemes to enable contracts to be concluded, etc. I actually thought the representative of Skovholt Gitmark knew about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2756	Many were happy when an interest compensation scheme for the maintenance or refurbishment of schools and church buildings was finally reintroduced. The Christian People's Party was happy, but not least one was happy out in Norwegian municipalities, and one welcomed this. But we're surprised that one doesn't open up the possibility that this interest-rate compensation scheme, which is so popular, was used very actively during the Bondevik II government and ended in this period, can also be used to build new churches, as one did during the Bondevik II government. If there is a problem that the scheme is not good enough, it is wise to fill up with money, because this is aimed at welfare measures in municipalities and at jobs in the construction sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2764	The interest-rate compensation scheme is a very good arrangement for municipalities, and it has helped to ensure that churches and schools have been refurbished around the country. The interest-rate compensation system is being reintroduced, and we are very pleased about that, because we believe it is a good tool. The representative asks whether this should also apply to new church buildings. The government will follow developments in the future with regard to introducing new measures. I am not a stranger to think that such a system can also apply to new buildings. But the government will come back with another package at the end of January, where one assesses the size and also the arrangement of the arrangement that we hope to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2771	The centre party has traditionally been associated with the Left in the view of what is good for the country, namely to have a widespread private ownership of businesses and businesses. In many municipalities, not least district municipalities, private small businesses are crucial for housing and activity. After three years in a red company, the Center Party has every day taken new steps away from such thinking and into a grey-red fog with the focus on the most public ownership possible. The centre party will vote later this evening for a budget that has targeted attacks on those who want to invest and own Norwegian jobs. In addition, the Central Party is voting against a number of proposals that the Left is promoting today to improve the situation of small businesses and to encourage the workers who create jobs. Is the Central Party grappling with voting tonight, in which they will vote against proposals that they have previously agreed on, which are so important for the jobs in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2780	The centre party is behind the budget that is being presented today, including the issue of property taxes and inheritance taxes. Both the property tax and the inheritance tax have an important redistribution profile in themselves. It's important, based on our entire tax system, that those who have a lot have to pay relatively more than those who have little. Both the property tax and the inheritance tax mean that the ceiling on what to pay is lifted. In fact, in connection with the inheritance fee, 90 pst. by those who inherit, obtain a tax scheme more favourable than the one currently in existence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2785	I share the representative's desire to bring more renewable energy into the Norwegian market. This time is a good time to do it, and also to facilitate, among other things. more small force. Then it is incomprehensible that the government has done so little to get more small power plants developed in Norway. We have a base rate tax of 5.5 MW for the entire power plant, not just for it at the top. We see that it has become more difficult to obtain a concession, the county interferes with more and more cases, and the NVE has a process that is increasing. For this reason, the question to the representative of the Kärlaaa is: why does the Centre not facilitate the development of food in the districts, among other things. by facilitating the construction of small-scale power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2792	For the duration of treatment, for example: NVE, I know the government has put in a lot of effort to get it down. What's positive is that under this government there are actually very many people who have applied to build small power plants around the country. When very many have applied, this means that the authorities have been able to facilitate this in a useful way and that the development of small power plants is attractive. There is a long waiting time, a long treatment time now, but the Government has taken action to strengthen treatment capacity. But the fact that many are applying is just an expression that the government's policy in this area has been very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2797	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2800	Today's debate has so far been as marked by what is not part of the state budget we are discussing and adopting today as the actual content of the budget and the alternatives of the various parties. The seriousness of the financial crisis is heavy on us, and there is reason to wonder whether the state budget that is now being given a majority has the profile and the means to meet the challenges we are now facing. My answer is a conditional no. After hearing the debate so far today, it seems that there is also the answer far into the government's circles. Left agrees with the Government that job no. 1 and job no. 2 is to have a fiscal policy that underpins monetary policy, making interest rates as low as possible. Therefore, the Left in its alternative state budget adds up to the same oil money usage as the Government, and warns against using more in the uncertain situation we are now in. Then, however, the Left and the Government separate layers, because job no. 3 and job no. 4 In the view of the Left, it is appropriate to look after the companies and their owners in such a way that, in difficult times, they are encouraged to do the maximum to take care of the jobs in Norway and to transform their activities in an environmentally friendly and forward-looking way. Because we need targeted investment in the future, a comprehensive shift in taxation in an environmentally friendly way, investment in environmental, climate and industrial research and a concentrated focus on growth in climate and environmental workplaces. The left has the objective of developing an equally good supplier industry in climate and renewable energy as we have in the oil and gas sector. Unfortunately, we are alone in this. A good illustration of this was when the representative Heikki Holmås earlier today criticized the Progress Party for not having an address to the climate challenges in his main contribution to the financial debate, but completely forgot to hear after when the Workers' Party's Reidar Sandal had his contribution. Here the climate challenges were just as absent. There is therefore reason to call for a real willingness to convert to a greener economy of the Government. The main individual actions of the left in its alternative state budget are to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian business and small businesses. The impact of the Left's policy is almost DKK 4.5 billion in targeted measures for businesses, entrepreneurs and small businesses. The left will focus in particular on the innovative environmental and climate-friendly business combined with a comprehensive effort on education and research. In its alternative budget, the Left promotes a number of measures to secure existing jobs and to facilitate the creation of new ones. The left proposes many measures to improve the framework conditions for business and small businesses, including: tax relief for business, Capital FUNN scheme, increased tax rates in Tax FUNN, increased depreciation rates, own minimum deduction for self-employed workers, lower employer’s fee for apprentices and the reversal of all anti-business tax-aggravating government proposals with a total framework of nearly DKK 4 billion. Furthermore, the Left proposes the reintroduction of grants for unremunerated labour input into the TaxFUNN scheme, increasing industrial research by 350 million. in addition to the Government's proposals, strengthening the social rights of self-employed persons, increasing the commitment to travel activities and reducing fees from the Brønn Island Health Registers. In addition, the Left proposes a series of measures to stimulate work through changes in the tax and social security system. In my view and in the view of the Left, these measures will in total be much more focused on maintaining a high level of employment and facilitating the start-up of more new enterprises than the Government’s targeted symbolism policy on ‘taking the rich’. The result of the government's policy is fewer enterprises, fewer jobs and increased unemployment. Finally, I would like to comment on the draft representative on the VAT exemption for the City Ship Tunnel in line with the infrastructure on land. It is gratifying that an overall opposition sees the unfairness of this discrimination, but the more disappointing that the majority, the government parties, do not have a political backbone to do what they must understand is right. We just have to take note of that in the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2819	State Council Dag Terje Andersen has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2822	Ten minutes, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2827	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2830	I think the misunderstanding has changed the order of the list of speakers. – Now I have come up for 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2836	Okay, we get to do it so that the Council of State Day Terje Andersen gets a speaking time of up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2839	I strongly appreciate the fact that in this way we were able to see the Government's willingness to negotiate, and I am very pleased with the outcome of the negotiations. I think this has been an interesting debate so far, a debate that has been largely about the serious situation on the labour market. Today's Nav figures confirm the seriousness of the labour market situation by increasing the number of registered unemployed in the last month of 3,400 to over 45 000, an unemployment rate of 1,8 pst. Many would say that there are low numbers, but there's a strong increase in a month. We pay particular attention to this, because both we in the Workers' Party and all the government parties are particularly concerned about that job no. 1 is work for everyone. That was why when the Prime Minister made his intervention in the debate on the throne, he spent a great deal of his time explaining and telling about his assessment of the challenges on the labour market beyond the fall. And when the finance minister gave his financial speech, her main focus was also on the challenges the international financial crisis was going to give us beyond the harvest. They were clear on the major challenges with which the international crisis would also affect us – the crisis that is at the root of the US banking crisis. The same was the starting point for the government budget that was presented, where it was expressed that one of the main objectives was to facilitate a reduction in interest rates. Because it is the most important measure for most of the parts of the labour market that now face challenges. So in addition, we put forward a government budget of 14 billion dollars more to demand the activity that we can get from the construction sector, from the civil engineering sector and from other parts of society, to a large extent from the private sector. These include: That's why we are now increasing efforts to build more student homes; that's why we are now increasing the effort for necessary maintenance in schools; that's why we are now launching even more state-owned construction; that's why we are now increasing the appropriations for road and rail beyond the level of national transport – a historically strong road and rail investment. These are objectives which are in themselves sensible, but which are now very important to help reduce unemployment. In addition, as a result of the development of the financial crisis and its impact on Norway, the Government has provided a bank package of DKK 350 billion in the form of government bonds that are useful for banks’ access to finance their loans. It was the day it was presented, referred to by the Right as if it were too small and too late. It was referred to by the banking industry and by the NHO as appropriate time and measures. So on Sunday, there was a new package that contained SEK 50 billion at the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit, to strengthen innovation in Norway, to ship building loan schemes, to meet challenges that the industry was about to face – industry that has a mission ready to be carried out, but that lacks funding. Once again received positively by those affected by the measures. Then there was a solution for Export Finance tonight, which is a completely necessary institution to ensure that the export-oriented industry in Norway can help carry out its tasks. Once again, a strong response has been received positively by the industries that themselves needed the measure. So several measures have been notified by the Minister of Finance. In January and February, we will come back with further measures, not to change the state budget, but to move forward in the direction that the government budget is drawing up, to secure the financial industries and to increase activity in the areas where we see there being unemployment. In my department, we are now working on planning in relation to the challenges that we see and that have been confirmed today. We are preparing to analyse the labour market in a completely different way from what we do in a normal situation. We have close contact with various professional organisations in order to follow developments before it appears in the statistics. That's the background for the plans we're now making for the future activity. For my part, I have to say that the most important thing is that we are able to put in place measures for the construction sector, for industry and for those parts of the trade sector that are now experiencing a significant decline and are beginning to increase unemployment. In order to achieve that, it's very important to bring down the interest rate. We know that in relation to housing. We know that in relation to the personal economy and the ability to keep trade and activity up. Financial policy is important and good arrangements are important for the export-oriented industry. Yes, it is for my part that I am most concerned with the measures that are not in my budget. I actually see it this way now – with responsibility for the labour market part of Nav – that we should have the least possible customers. That's exactly why I am concerned that we get the activity that makes the least possible unemployed. But then, of course, we're going to have an offer for those who are going to be unemployed in the future. That is why we are now discussing the number of labour market measures; we are discussing arrangements for labour market measures, so that we can, for example, discuss them. be able to use actively the arrangements available for enterprise-internal training in the future. We are, of course, discussing the rules on permitting. At all events, we adapt the legislation and the instrument to the situation in which we are. And, not least, in a situation where unemployment is increasing — and we are fortunately very concerned about it — we must remember to focus on that part of labour market policy aimed at helping the most disadvantaged in the labour market. Because there's something we've been able to do in these years, it's just getting a lot of people out of the labour market into work, and we have to keep up the effort to take care of them in the situation that we're now going into. Having seen the alternative budget proposals and heard the discussion about them here today, I have to say that there are many old proposals that are now being presented in new packaging. It's a little special in a situation where we have an international crisis that's going to have an impact on Norway, because the starting point for the crisis is the United States. We know that much of the cause of the crisis has been that there has been too much risk in banking. An important incentive to take a high risk has been management wages that have premiered high risk, but for the same leaders there has been no risk of poor performance. We know that there has been too bad regulation. We know that there has been little political governance. We know that the United States has a small public sector. We know that market forces have been for free play in the United States. In relation to the part of the international crisis that we are going to notice, we are, after all, better rusted than most countries. We're better rusted because we have a high level of employment. In fact, according to the latest figures from September, there are 68 000 more employed than in September one year ago. We have a good starting point because we have a solid economy, and we have a good starting point, not least on the basis of the Norwegian model, where we have a strong public sector that is currently not equally threatened by the same unemployment. We have a state ownership of which there has been a political dispute, but which until those degrees now balances the instability on the stock exchange, because it is not an impatient ownership that sells out immediately the stock exchange prices go down, or for that matter when the stock exchange prices go up again. We have removed business-neutral policies and provided a targeted industrial policy, and not least we have taken strong thanks to limit leadership wages, while at the same time taking action against social dumping, so that from both sides we defend the attacks on the solidarity wage policy in Norway. The government, as has been said by several, is prepared to discuss solutions in relation to the actions to be put forward, but there must be solutions that do not undermine the Norwegian model. There must be solutions that preserve the Norwegian model. We cannot solve the impact of the international crisis on Norway by copying the cause of the crisis in the countries where it occurred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2876	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2879	It was interesting to hear the Council of State and his rhetoric, for the rhetorical council of state is such that one would think he was an opposition politician. According to KS, UNIO, YS and the construction industry, we know that the measures contained in the State budget are not sufficient. The councils themselves referred to the 14 billion that have been raised. The industries themselves say that at least we should have NOK 30 billion to avoid a great deal of leave. We saw that the construction industry a few days ago assumed that the unemployment rate would increase by 60,000. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: why choose such a defensive role and wait until people become unemployed before taking action? Why are measures not taken in advance before people become unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2886	Now I have just explained that this government, after having notified and thoroughly informed about the situation both in the census and in the context of the financial debate, has put in place measures for billions of dollars to the banking industry, which are incredibly important also for the construction industry and for the export-oriented industry. We have put in place, by the last Sunday, special measures targeting the export industry. I can give a good example of the effects of that. The Fosen yard was in danger of losing four contracts that they were about to start up. They fell into place because of the Government's decision on Sunday. So tonight we've settled the export finance situation. In addition, we have an expansive budget, and then we have notified that we will bring even more measures in January/February. If there is something this government is not affected by, it must be paralysis. We have done more than most countries have made it clear during this period to try to counteract the effects of an international crisis that is going to affect Norway, but we are going to minimise the impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2893	This government competes at the top of the world in terms of self-satisfaction. I would like to confront the Council of State with another side of the uprooted Norwegian model. It is very, very high in the case of sick leave, and sick leave is increasing. After Nav's figures, the increase from the second quarter of last year to the second quarter of this year was 4.6 pst. The rehabilitation offer that the government has promised to strengthen has not been seen. All patient organisations are accusing the Government of a breach of promises in this area. Musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders are the most common cause. More than one in three people who have been diagnosed with this disease have been diagnosed. In this area, according to Nav, most institutions with rehabilitation services have to build up because there is overcapacity for rehabilitation services for this group. Is it the political opinion of the Councils that there is overcapacity in the rehabilitation provision of sick people? And if that's not the case, what's the reason why sick leave increases so dramatically?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2900	It is such that, after the conclusion of the IA agreement, we have had a decrease in sick leave. So is it that in the last period the increase in employment has been very large – as I said: only in the last year 68 000. This means that many who have been out of the labour market in the past have entered the labour market. To this extent – and this is not unlikely – it has had an impact on the development of sick leave, I am of those who believe that it is better that people are in work with some sick leave than that they are out of work for the sake of sick leave statistics. Our policy is to include in the labour market all those with working capacity and residual working capacity. To the extent that they should have some more need for sick leave than the representative Wohnung and myself, I still believe that this is a proper development. Then, of course, when we go through the IA agreement, we're going to put in another new measure to bring sick leave down.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2907	Today's budget clearly indicates that one does not meet the IA agreement's objective in the next year. What is extra search is that it also shows that a main instrument for reducing sick leave, namely the dialogue meetings after 12 weeks and after six months, is used in a very close manner as they should. The whole Nav system is under pressure, and one area in which the press reports is followed up by the dialogue meetings and follow-up of the sick. So my question to the Council of State is: What can be done, and what should be done to intensify the follow-up work of the sick in 2009 so that they can also have an opportunity in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2914	It's true, as the representative Woie Duesund says, that this is one of the biggest challenges in the Nav system. Then I think the representative Woie Duesund and I can agree that the first thing we should do is avoid the budget proposals for those parties – not the Christian People's Party – that propose dramatic changes in Nav. That's point one. It is their duty to carry out this task at the same time as they have major changes and reforms in progress. Then, through the evaluation that is now taking place with the IA agreement, and in close cooperation with the parties, I want to make sure that we have a stronger focus on all the targets. One is sick leave. The second, on which we have poor results, is unemployed entry into the labour market. The third point, where we have positive results, is the take-off age. We will go into this in more detail in the evaluation of the entire IA agreement and, as I said with the parties, identify what measures are needed both to increase the follow-up concretely and to improve overall performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2921	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2925	It might have been tempting to start by saying that after listening to the State Councillor Andersen, we can all go home and sleep sweetly, because the crisis is canceled. Another thing that fascinated me in the Council of State's description of reality was the amazing belief in employment. It is possible that the Council of State has not received the focus that has been on Nav lately. It hasn't necessarily been just positive about Nav's ability to help people get back. In any case, the description of the reality of the financial crisis today has, to those degrees, shown different views on the matter. It is claimed from the position that the opposition is on wild roads, among other things. in the case of tax relief and the grips to be taken here. At my discretion, it's so that this can't possibly be solved just politically. If you're going to make a change and get out of this, you're going to have to play with the population. It's the people who actually generate both the values and the other that are created here in the country. It's not necessarily done in this room. Another main challenge is how long should you wait before you take hold? How long do you see? How long should you assess? Could it be because you lack experience in these kinds of crises that you need to hurry slowly, or are there other things that make you wait? I think at least it should be that when things are bad, as they are now, then it's urgent to do things. It would have been tempting to say about the government's bet: it's almost like putting people outside of Kaia, and then you save them afterwards to show the power of action. In principle, you could have saved the entire exercise if you had been inside and prepared in advance. You don't, but you want to show action. The red-green government has boasted of its ability to take care of the population, and not least bet that interest is going down. Yes, it's probably a long way to go that you have to try to get it done, because so far it's been about Norwegian champion in getting the interest up! I also record that the Minister of Finance has a different rhetoric than she had before, as an opposition politician. It was then that the previous governments were responsible when the interest rate went up, today it is the market. It might have to do with what kind of position you say in the political situation. Another thing that might be small in relation to the financial crisis is that we actually have another crisis in one of the pillars of democracy, namely the Norwegian police. I'm going to be careful to owe the government in this matter, but what is at least certain is that the government is sitting on the key to finding a solution. Then, at my discretion, it's not about talking, it's about finding a solution. It's about finding models that make you get Norwegian police, literally, back on the road. Now they're well parked in the ditch, and there it looks like they're standing. I think, with respect to reporting, that it does not hold that Minister of Justice Storberget is going for a tour of Sognsvann. There won't be any more policemen. Here it takes completely different things to get on with it. It may well be that it is also time to leave it reasonably bad for a while, so eventually to come up with different measures to show that you have the power to act. What you do then is push the population forward as a hostage, as the population depends on the political decisions taken here and the consequences of them – whether the financial crisis or other issues. So why do you have to wait? I think that's surprising, and I think it's defensive. Some have attacked the Progress Party for our draft budget, not least for the tax cuts that are there. But it's probably the kind of money that the population is using, basically coming from their own pocket. The more they have to go with, the more they can be with and contribute to creating an activity outside, which will be positive for everyone. It's like if you take away a link in a chain, you don't have a chain anymore. Then you have a loose link, but it doesn't have an overall function. That's what's about to happen now, at my discretion. Then I allow myself to give tribute to the representative Alf E. Jakobsen for his contributions. I registered that at home with him was the wife who was the great builder. I also understood that it was important that each of us put something into it and took a roof at home. My honor goes to Mr. Jacobsen and his wife: may many have the same idea as them, so maybe we can do something. Finally, I record that those who attack capitalism the most are SV. At the same time, no one is more concerned with using the values that capitalism creates through, among other things. share investments. Now I understand that you're investing everything you can because you're way down, and you expect to be on the rise. It is possible that it is morally based on an SV position. I want to say that there is much more to it than morals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2951	There is no doubt that the economic situation is serious. The whole political environment takes it seriously, and since the draft budget was presented, the Government has taken new initiatives to meet the challenges facing the economy. Two new measures have been announced in the last 24 hours — worth mentioning since the previous speech clearly failed to bring the new measure either. The opposition wants a broad political settlement in fiscal policy, while the four opposition parties are currently running for four different budget lines. They don't manage to gather themselves, even if they want to appear as an alternative to the Government. Even in such a serious economic situation as we see now, they have a common economic policy. Many claims are made, including: the parties to the government increase taxes. No, we don't. The level of taxation remains unchanged and, overall, does not have a narrowing effect on the Norwegian economy. We distribute the tax burden more fairly. The shields of the richest owners of the business community are matched by the relief of the large majority. So what is done with taxes and taxes in this budget? We have arranged for tax cuts to hit primarily the most prosperous and valuable unlisted shares. An interesting information is that the 10 pst. The richest in Norway owns 90 pst. of the unlisted shares. We propose lower taxes on moderate bank deposits through increased asset tax deductions. We're expanding the BSU, which stimulates bank savings and also improves bank deposits, which are important at these times. We lower the maximum limit for the valuation of commercial property from 80 pst. to 60 pst. of market value. It provides lower taxes on wealth for new buildings. It will in itself help to mitigate the decline in construction activity. It's true that we're increasing the equation value of existing business buildings from an average of 25 pst. to 40 pst. of market value. It is a tightening of the tax for owners of such buildings. But still, valuation as a basis for property taxes will be much lower than actual value. In recent years there has been an overinvestment in industrial buildings, including: a result of particularly favourable tax rules. By changing these rules, we will dampen the economic fluctuations in the future. Listening to the opposition, it seems that the tax doesn't change in rising and falling times. Of course it's not like that. If the income is lower, you pay less in taxes. When both equity and industrial property decreases due to a downward trend in the market, the property tax is also reduced accordingly. The equity situation in Norwegian business has greatly improved in recent years. It is more targeted that authorities engage in increased activity in the sectors affected by the decline in activity, for example: in the case of construction, rather than maintaining particularly favourable tax conditions for the richest owners. The changes in the inheritance tax have also been highlighted as dramatic. But our arrangement involves relief for 90-95 pst. by the persons liable for the charge. Among these are many small businesses that also get relief compared to today’s rules. We have maintained a discount scheme in the inheritance tax for such shares up to a ceiling of 10 million. kr. per 1 % heirs. We halve the maximum rates, reduce the lowest rates and significantly increase the amount of free money. In addition, we have extended the system of interest-free deductions for generation changes in family businesses. The scheme is extended to all enterprises, not only the smallest, but also extends from seven years to twelve years. The residual inheritance tax is deducted from property that reduces the taxes on wealth. At a seminar in charge of Handelshöjskolan, economists asked the following questions: Are we talking about a dramatic increase in the inheritance tax on generation change in family businesses? No, we do not, according to the Norwegian School of Commerce, precisely because of the changes in the rules I just referred to – or to quote Professor Terje Hansen's conclusion on his lecture quite correctly: ‘The description of the crisis provided by business with regard to the consequences of the new legacy system is therefore only duty.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e2990	Assistance will be without comparison the great winner of the Government’s 2009 budget proposal. Government and government parties are clearly proud that 1 pst is now to be used. of gross national income to contribute to development in poor countries, as it is called, and it is considered to be historical. From our side, we are also concerned about getting people out of poverty, but we will warn against the one-sided focus on the amount of aid in dollars, or in percent of gross national income. Instead, we will focus on the quality of assistance, whether it comes to those who need it, whether it works properly, and whether it actually brings people out of poverty. In the class struggle of 24 November, there was an interesting chronicle written by Eirik Jarl Trondsen, Executive Director of Energy Africa Ltd in Kenya, entitled ‘Falits of Aid’. He writes, among other things: that, from Africa, assistance is an odd matter. Here come people from the north with great cars and good wages to help us in the south to help ourselves. After 10 years of assistance, his conclusion is that we are doing Africa a service to bear, and that we cannot help a continent – it has to help itself. The throne claims that the sacrificial role we impose on Africa is part of creating a vision of a hopeless continent. In the chronicle, he refers to self-experienced examples of misguided aid projects and concludes, first of all, that aid in today's form has fallen. Only when Africa and not least African leaders take responsibility for their own development can Africa be able to stand on its own feet. He claims that the solution is not new methods of assistance or more assistance that keep the lives of dubious leaders alive, but that we are willing to take Africa seriously. In practice, it means investing time and money and ending offering sacrifices to ‘stack Africa’. Long-term investment that takes care of employees, the community and the environment and builds a sustainable industry must exist, and he refers to a number of projects in which investment would be beneficial. The party of progress is the heart's agreement with Trondsen in this. We have for a long time taken the consequences of this, and in our alternative state budget, we also call for the creation of a fund for industrial investment in developing countries. Fortunately, more and more people now see investment and industrial development as a much better and more effective way of combating poverty, as opposed to passive money support without demand or control. The removal of customs barriers and other protectionist measures is also essential if people are to be lifted out of poverty. We therefore propose in our budget option to remove customs duties on goods from all developing countries on the OECD list. However, the removal of customs barriers from industrialised countries is not enough alone. Equally important is the development of customs and trade barriers between developing countries. The financial crisis now facing the world can have very serious and extensive consequences for many developing countries. Recent analyses by the World Bank show that, in the short term, the countries with large foreign debt and which are most integrated into the world economy are getting dizzy. However, for the poorest countries, the long-term consequences are becoming most dramatic. Many fears are now collapsing, and some even claim that the consequences in the worst cases can lead to a major collapse for some of the poorest countries in Africa. Many of these countries have a very weak economy and have been passive beneficiaries for several decades, unfortunately without any positive contribution. Investment and industrial development have been very low in many of the poorest countries. It is therefore very poor today to resist the consequences of the financial crisis. On the part of the Progress Party, it is essential that the Norwegian commitment to development policy should support a policy that mitigates the negative consequences of the financial crisis in developing countries, particularly in relation to the debt situation, investment needs and trading conditions. It is therefore appropriate to consider, on the Norwegian side, immediate measures to mitigate the serious effects of the financial crisis. From our side, in addition to the removal of customs duties on goods from developing countries and an investment fund, we are proposing an increase in the entry of debt in addition to the Government's proposal. The goal of Norwegian development and assistance policy must be to bring people out of poverty and enable poor countries to stand on their own feet. If we're going to achieve this, we're going to have to use the methods that we know work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3018	Next year's government budget, or maybe we'll say next year's temporary government budget, clearly shows this government's main problem in the field of transport: total lack of imagination regarding new, untraditional means of financing roads and railways. In addition, the Government suffers from fear of competition and change. Given the financial crisis we are now in the middle of, this is bad news for business, passengers and drivers. A red-green government is a guarantor of modernisation and renewal. Right wants to think new. The time has come to ensure important national infrastructure investments in the long-term. The time has come for a power cap for transportation. We meet the frameworks of the National Transport Plan, the Government boasts. The figures are clear: 623 million are missing. kr to meet the item on national road investments, and there is no SEK 438 million. kr on investments on the line. When the government says that they comply with the national transport plan, it is because of an increase in the oil price that has given more expensive fuel to the ferries. In addition, the Transport Committee has received a response from the Ministry on which road projects should have been launched during this period under the National Transport Plan Decision of the previous period, but which have not started, or which have received lower appropriations than envisaged. It's a long and sad list. 29 road projects have received significantly lower appropriations than foreseen and more than 30 projects have been committed to the uncertain. Improved infrastructure and more modern transport solutions increase mobility and contribute to meeting the transport needs of society. This can lead to growth and development across the country. A well-developed and maintained infrastructure gives individuals the freedom to move in an efficient and secure manner both domestically and abroad. At the same time, the infrastructure is important for companies throughout the country to be competitive. Road construction is both a good rural policy and a good industrial policy. Better roads are also essential to move forward towards the vision of zero fatalities and permanent injuries in traffic. There is a need to contribute to the reduction of unemployment in economic times, among other things. in the construction sector through increased investment in road construction. The State’s share of road investment needs to beincreased. Failure to invest in roads in relation to the objectives of the national transport plan must be allocated in the budget for 2009. We will therefore increase the appropriations for road investment by NOK 1 billion compared to what is resulting from the Government's proposal. In addition, the Right will establish a maintenance fund for transport purposes of DKK 40 billion. This will provide an annual return of NOK 2 billion, which will be used by us to meet some of the challenges we face with the great delays in maintaining the road and rail networks. At the same time, we are committed to finding new solutions that can provide faster and more rational development, operation and maintenance of road installations. The government's notified infrastructure building model, project financing, has been scrapped. It makes it even more important to continue to work on building roads through Public Private Cooperation, so-called OPS. The experience gained from the first OPS projects that have been completed is so good, including: with halved construction time and improved cost control, that the model must be continued on appropriate sections. For next year, the Right will propose to launch four new OPS projects: E6 west of Alta with 100 pst. State funding, E39 Os–Bergen, Rv. 7 Sokna–Örgenvika and E18 through Inner Eastfold. Competition in the railway sector is important in order to ensure optimal provision of the resources available to users. For example, increased competition in passenger transport on Gjøvikban has been a major success. The Gjøvik track has received an offer with much better quality – 40 pst. multiple take-offs and universal design – so that it is now accessible also to disabled persons. More use of tenders with contractual conditions and penalties may prove to be a more appropriate and effective tool to ensure the quality of public service. The right will propose the competitive deployment of rail passenger services on several routes currently operated by the NSB, e.g. on Kongsvingerbanen. We have promoted our own previous proposal for an action plan for multiple crossing tracks on the railways. With several crossing tracks you can increase the capacity of the railway network and get more of the trailer traffic over to the railway, thereby reducing freight traffic on the roads. During the last government period, a number of measures were implemented which resulted in an increase of 80 pst in freight transport. on the railway within four years. In a few months' time, we will have a national transport plan for Stortinget, but it will apply from 2010. In the announced New Year package from the Government, there should be a significant investment on roads and rail. In any case, it must be a minimum that completed projects are now started.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3049	It would have been tempting to comment on the contribution made by my good colleague from Buskerud on transport to point out how it must feel to be Right-wing and see that a red-green government, which presented its proposal for a national transport plan in 2004, by adding NOK 1 billion on the road and NOK 1 billion on the road, as was referred to as ‘air money’, has implemented this to a point and pointed and is miles ahead of the ambitions of the Right-wing Representative’s own government to accommodate the previous period. But I'll let that lie. The statement by Siv Jensen earlier in the debate today that she has never attended such a strange financial debate may describe the situation we are now in. Yeah, it's weird, the situation we're up in now. It's because we need to go back in time to find a situation where the uncertainty associated with the economic outlook was as great as it is now. In such a situation, the opposition is trying to score political coins that, in their opinion, the government is not fast enough on the trigger when it comes to implementing the measures that may be necessary. That is an unreasonable criticism. Let me give you some examples of this. The budget for next year is expansive because we early saw that the good economic times we now have behind us could not continue. The budget itself makes important contributions to keeping people in work through strong efforts in municipalities, on construction, on transport, to mention something. The bank crisis package was established at record speed. Together with the budget, this provided room for two interest reductions. You don't have to be an economic expert to realize that more people will come. Workplaces in the export industry are currently secured by the measures we have taken towards GIEK and Export Finance, to mention something. But in the course of the weeks we have behind us, we've seen that this most likely won't be enough. Therefore, yesterday the Government announced that we would make further action if necessary in the month change of January/February. Then I hear several people say that this is reacting too late and too little. Then I would like to say that the person who thinks today is sure to answer how the economy will develop in the months, weeks and years to come, must report to service as soon as possible. From the government parties, we are committed to addressing the problems of the right measures at the right time. To do this, we're dependent on putting in place new forecasts and numbers. We already have many indicators that show that things are going worse than we thought, but we need new forecasts and numbers before we print out medicine with broad-spectrum impact fields. I think one should be very careful on the civil side to say that one does not have a uniform defence from the Government against the financial crisis we are now facing. On the civil side, the Progress Party, in a known style, proposes billions in additions to the State budget. They do this whether the labour market is good or bad, financial crisis or not, so here it's not much new. In the case of the Right, the Right has been especially high and dark in the last days. Then there is reason to remember that vis-à-vis NTB on 23 September, i.e. two weeks before the budget was presented in the autumn, Vice President Jan Tore Sanner firmly stated with a broad pen that he feared that the red-green parties would think too much about the election campaign and would not take sufficient account of the Norwegian economy. He also asked the Minister of Finance to limit the use of money in the budget. When the budget was presented, he still believed that it was not tight enough. So now he thinks that things are just hopeless. I'm not going to make cheap points that there's more people who've been on a bike ride and are wondering what's going on right now, what's going on this fall. But then I think we also have to be able to demand some moderation from the opposition in return. We have said clearly that we are ready to implement the right measures at the right time, but now we need to adopt an expansive budget later this evening and bring interest down. Then, just over the New Year, along with the opposition, we're going to discuss what kind of additional fiscal measures it's going to be necessary to launch. Norway is fantastically privileged, in the sense that we are very well equipped to meet the economic turmoil that is now going on all over the world. We are privileged because we have invested in the Nordic welfare model, which combines a large Community sector with a competitive business, and we have very good government finances. Then we don't have to waste the opportunity to prepare ourselves for the economic storm that is now about to occur, almost living by the motto 'the more, the better, it doesn't matter if it's the right measures at the right time'. It becomes irresponsible in my eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3068	Many people are right to use this financial debate to talk about securing jobs and stimulating new ones, but to a large extent we are only talking about crisis packages, where new appropriations are to be supported, rather than at the same time looking at framework conditions where changes in laws and regulations and competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world can be so important to stimulate industry and our economy. I've been on many industrial visits over the past few weeks. There are two things that go back to the industrial companies we're talking to. That is the need for an industrial power regime, and there is the need for a CO2 quota law that is competitive in relation to the EU. In both areas, the industry records that the government is moving in the wrong direction. You tighten to where other countries dissolve. Where the EU now moves towards granting 100 pst. free allowances for industry, the Government works to grant zero. It gives an extra bill to the industry that becomes a burden they can't live with. The economic risk is increasing in Norway, while it is decreasing in our competitor country. The companies are at best stuck on the fence, while they have planned investments. Maybe they're sitting there until 2013, when the CO2 emission response is cleared, maybe they're sitting on the wrong side. We're not supposed to take that on. The Progress Party therefore uses this budgetary position to develop Norway as an energy storm power. It's important value creation we're talking about, and it ensures jobs in downtime. A strong oil and energy sector will provide groundwork for technology development, high value creation and good living standards. This should benefit its citizens and businesses through secure access to energy at a reasonable price. The Progress Party will therefore facilitate the processing of more of our energy resources in Norway. It is therefore important to establish an industrial power regime based on the French model, which allows industry to invest in power generation and take power out for its own consumption. This ensures jobs and ensures new investment in Norway. Example of the opposite, when the government gets control, we got on Karmøy yesterday, unfortunately. In this budget, the Progress Party emphasises the need to stimulate increased power generation. Norway is an energy nation. We have great untapped potential, we have a capital-intensive industry with many projects, but little realized. Companies are investing abroad rather than in Norway, even the state's own company Statekraft is primarily investing abroad today. This shows that poor framework conditions in Norway are leading capital out of the country. Good framework conditions may reverse this investment flow. For this reason, there is a need for a comprehensive energy message that restores industry's belief in Norwegian energy policy, and the policy outlined in the state budget for renewable energy is too poor. There, the Progress Party proposes many alternatives. But if you look at the power situation in Central Norway, it illustrates that energy policy has fallen in the country. Therefore, the Progress Party also proposes that concrete action be taken in that region to correct the balance of forces. A negative tendering system must be considered to provide additional incentives for power generation in central Norway, and we hope to support the proposal today. The Progress Party will also have a strong commitment to renewable energy. We will allow for more environmentally adapted hydropower projects. In addition, we will simplify the concession process for small power projects and transfer some of those applications to local authorities, so that the queue can be reduced today. It is not sustainable for a small power plant to have five to eight years of proceedings. Together with the introduction of a technology-neutral green renewable energy certificate system, a number of profitable, good projects can be realised and be involved and contribute to the economy. We will also develop new energy technologies across a wide range, and it is important to facilitate the development of technology in Norway, rather than flying it out to our neighbouring countries. We want to focus on strengthening energy efficiency. We have proposed to set up a low-energy committee to identify the potential for more efficient energy use, and hope to support it when it is voted into the Stortinget on 2 December. We also say that we should use our gas resources so that the industry, the gas-based industry, can dare to invest again in Norway. The State must have overall regulatory responsibility for gas infrastructure, similar to that of the State for electricity, and, among other things, the State must assume greater responsibility for the realisation of gas pipelines to Grenland. It is alarming that the only thing this government has done in relation to gas pipelines to Grenland is to postpone the project for up to several years. We want a robust and offensive petroleum policy. The oil industry is probably the reason why Norway does not get the deep downturn that many other countries get, and then we need to stimulate that industry to have faith in Norway and make new projects even in times of decline, rather than constantly looking at other places. When Norwegian government politicians say that they will stop recruitment to the petroleum industry, it is a completely wrong signal at a time when the capital of the petroleum industry is important to the economy of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3095	What has shaped the debate today is, of course, the situation in which the world economy is in, and, of course, the situation that is about to take place in Norway, where the financial crisis is becoming a crisis in the real economy, where people lose their jobs, where we are at all in a situation that has been a long time since we have been in, where the consequences of which it is difficult to overlook, and which highlights some points in relation to national economic policy, but which reminds us not least that we are part of a world economy, and that what is happening around Europe, in the United States and globally, is at the highest in terms of national economic policy and situation. I want to make it clear that, from our point of view, the government has managed the situation well until today. They responded quickly and resolutely to the financial crisis in which the banks were in and presented a powerful package there. At the latest today, provision has been made to ensure and ensure the liquidity of our export industries, thus ensuring many important jobs around the country. In spite of the expansion of this budget, new measures have also been announced that will be brought back to the Storting in January. I also believe that this situation underlines the importance of the fact that the market alone is unable to cope with stable economic development for the benefit of all, and that the market is dependent on control, that the market depends on mechanisms that make it both functional and not least beneficial, and that it functions in the way it should. I think it will show that the Norwegian mixing model is very robust. I think this crisis is going to show that we in the Nordic region, and maybe especially in Norway with the starting point we have, are ready to get through this in a better way than what you're able to do in a lot of other places. I don't think at least that the Norwegian model is going to be more adaptable, adaptable, because we have long traditions to pull together, because the public and private sectors know how to cooperate, and not least because we have a public financial situation that enables us to act differently than many others are. There has been a lot of talk about counter-cyclical policies, or at least about strong fiscal policies measures to counter cyclical trends. For my part, I would like to stress that monetary policy from our point of view is the most important thing. It's important now that we get our interest rate down. The fact that in the situation we are in, we have a national monetary policy, have the opportunity through the Bank of Norway to govern our own interest rate and have an economy that, if we wanted, could have stabilized the crown further, is a good argument to stay outside the EU and stay out of monetary union. It would have taken us away from one of the most important tools to counteract the situation that we are now in. Then we from the Center Party are concerned that any action has to come on the investment side. Now we have an opportunity to take a lot of money back on investments, whether it's road and transport or school construction, hospitals and hospitals. Our plan for the future in terms of money to be used is that we will focus on the investment perspective. There are also many people here today who have underlined the importance of business and the needs of business. Of course, we're also very concerned about that in the Center Party. We have already said that we want to look closely at the rules that are now to be put into practice in order to assess the wealth values, but we are also going to have a general focus on taxes, to look at the possibilities of facilitating the situation for business, to facilitate the situation for businesses, not least in terms of the equity situation. Because it's like today that the values have to be created before they can be distributed, and that's the way it's going to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3110	In the TV 2 news last night, it was concluded that the government is now placing the rule of action on the shelf. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing. That conclusion should have been drawn much earlier. Then we would have a real action package on the table today. If there's a time when Norway really needs to spend more oil money, it's now. The financial crisis has dramatically changed the basis of the Government's budget. Only yesterday did the government announce that it will bring a package of measures in February. It's good, but it's coming late, which the National Association of Construction also expressed yesterday. I hope the Government is now seeking the widest possible majority for the package of measures. Increased appropriations for rapidly feasible transport projects will be an effective measure in the current situation. We need better roads. We need better rail. And in the situation we're in now, we have to do everything we can to counteract increased unemployment. What is better in such a situation than to bet on commerce? The projects are clear. The need is great. There is no need to wait. But the government's reluctance to face up to the opposition means that we are now losing valuable time. It takes time to get projects going, even if they're clear in the drawer. Christian People's Party has an incentive package on the table today, where we include: increases the framework of the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency by DKK 1 billion. We like to support larger amounts in the announced action package from the Government. The Minister of Finance believes that the Government will have a better overview in February. In the transport sector, we have many planned projects that are in line because of a lack of funding. Here it is not the overview that is missing, but the will to grasp. The Christian People's Party is increasing the appropriations for maintenance and investment on both road and track. There shall be more, better and safer roads and the railway shall be given a historic lift. In addition, we propose structural measures that ensure more rational and coherent development. An important step will be to give transport modes greater freedom of action. Therefore, acts of conduct should be reorganised into State undertakings. Combined with it, a system must be established whereby the State makes loan funds available for commercial projects. If we are to achieve the objective of a national infrastructure promise, we need to think again in Norway. Project funding can ensure that the implementation of adopted projects is as cost-effective as possible and without undue interruption. Loan financing contributes to long-term sustainability and predictability. Refunds are based on a combination of government grants and user financing. The maintenance run is huge. Particular priority must be given to the improvement of accident points and the construction of centre-sections on the main road network. In addition, it is necessary to ensure racially exposed distances to a much greater extent than at present. Several walking and cycling routes are needed, especially in cities and towns, and the Christian People's Party proposes the establishment of a reward scheme that stimulates increased construction of walking and cycling routes. The railway is the key in a sustainable transport system. Priority needs to be given to passenger transport in densely populated areas, and more cross-rails need to be built to facilitate more goods on the road. Now is the time to bet on transportation. We've got a paper summarizing the government's Northern Territory bet. The bet is, in my opinion, as thin as the book itself. It is with respect to report a little encouraging reading. During the period, the government has rushed together equally and differently from that which would in any case be in the ministry's budgets, whether we had a North-Area or not. In the Ministry of Transport's area, it is in my opinion completely black, despite the fact that better infrastructure is a field of activity in the Northern Region strategy. Now the government has the possibility: E6 across the whole northern part of the country needs upgrading, and three railway projects are strongly wanted to be realised: the Narvik-Tromsø tram, the Kirkenes-Nickel and NEW Corridor China/USA with Narvik as a hub port. The North Region Initiative itself requires an action package, and more to transport is welcomed in North Norway. Finally, investment in future quality of life, development and value creation is investment in infrastructure. The Christian People's Party is asking for support for its action package today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3140	We're in the middle of a difficult time with work placements and lay-offs. The government takes responsibility and establishes several good measures to secure Norwegian jobs. First, it does so by putting forward a government budget in which the responsible economic policy is pursued, which is very important, especially for business. At the same time, the budget will contribute to increased activity, e.g.: in the case of construction. Then came a giant package to the bank and credit market of NOK 350 billion, further a strengthening of the capital of the Municipal Bank. Last Sunday, the government announced that there would be a proposal to increase the scope of the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit, GIEK, and Innovation Norway. These are measures which are very positively received by business and which will undoubtedly safeguard businesses, sustain their activity and contribute to the increase in investment. It is important that the Government in this way encourages both export companies and small and medium-sized enterprises to have access to loans for a difficult time. Today we have been informed that the Government also solves challenges for Norwegian export companies through government loans to Export Finance. This ensures Norwegian companies' access to long-term export finance. The main responsibility for developing a good business lies mainly with the business community itself. The role of the authorities is, of course, to provide industry with a good general framework that allows them to compete on equal terms. We need a business that can both change and renew itself in order to sustain its competitiveness. This will be the focus of the announcement of the innovation message that the Government will present in a very short time. The government is pursuing a business policy for value creation, which in the next round is the very basis for good welfare for all. Not least, it will be central to the debate on poverty measures, where work is the very foundation for people to feel good. A responsible economic policy is alpha and omega for business. Even if the Government uses a record 92 billion dollars of oil revenue, it is still a responsible policy to keep interest rates down, counteract high unemployment and maintain high employment rates. The overarching strategy must be that the tools that are now in place must have the opportunity to work for a while. If there is a need for more new measures, I am overestimated that it will come. This is counter-cyclical policy, but the main philosophy of the Government’s industrial policy is that measures should help to develop new, sustainable and profitable jobs. At the same time, we need to focus on the areas that are based on the presidencies that this country has. That's the red thread in the government's active business policy. In these difficult times, it is important to take care of businesses that have the right to life. The opposition uses strong words in the debate on proposals for a change in inheritance tax and property tax. Yes, that's the right of the opposition, of course. But the truth is that the government's proposal takes care of Norwegian business in a good and fair way. In the case of property taxes, a fairer value-fixing of commercial property is now introduced, and the bottom deduction is increased to NOK 470,000. There's a triple in three to four years. When it comes to the change in the inheritance tax, the Government proposes to close the tax holes in the inheritance tax that the richest ones in particular have benefited from. Collecting the effects of the conversion of the inheritance tax means that between 90 and 95 pst. by all taxable persons, the inheritance tax is lower than the current rules. Between these, there are also many small businesses that can easily compare with today's rules. Four years ago, we had a government with an empty toolbox and a policy for a market liberal business. Today, we have a government that has filled up the toolbox with a lot of good tools and a solid blending economy that gives us the ability to manage the market when needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3166	Exactly a year ago, there was also a financial debate in Stortinget. Then the Norwegian economy sailed in a waters that were transparent, and the shot held a rough course in the future. There was a lot of sun and good weather in the Norwegian economy. Now the storm is hanging over the boat, and the storm alerts are in line. The waters at the front are inconspicuous and with a number of hidden hazards. There should be a full alarm on the bridge. With some exceptions, however, it seems that the skipper on the boat refuses to take off – sailing on the same course and at the same speed. It's not a good seamanship, nor is it a good statesmanship. There are vague thoughts, and there is a lack of action. If we leave the sailing image and go ashore, the government's prescription on medicine seems to be a dose of credit market measures to banks and a dose of loans/guarantee measures to credit institutions that provide loans to export industries and to Norwegian municipalities. Both prescriptions are printed overtime — on Sundays — after the Prime Minister had assured the patient that he was not ill for a long time. The government’s prescription seems to be otherwise ‘to follow the situation carefully’, with an additional call from the Minister of Finance from SV to shop so as to cheat. I noticed that the Minister of Finance left a new tool in his toolbox yesterday. A new package will come in January/February. Norwegian economy needs packages now. There are strong reasons why such packages should both be delivered and opened before Christmas. The government's draft budget is a draft budget which is not appropriate to the reality of the day, nor to what we must be prepared for can come true in the future. The government’s budget is not adapted to the reality of the municipalities in Norway, which provide school services and care for the elderly to all residents of the country. Without more money, it will be cut – with regards from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. The budget of the Progress Party, on the other hand, has its own municipal package of DKK 5 billion. The government's budget is not adapted to the need for general incentives in the economy – the need for tax relief for businesses and for people most. The budget of the Progress Party includes a package of tax credits of DKK 30 billion – a package with power adapted to an extraordinary need to stimulate demand. If the Minister of Finance wants more shopping, she should invest more in tax laws, as most countries in Europe now seem to do, regardless of the political color that governs. Nor is the government budget adapted to the possibility of modernising Norwegian infrastructure. Economic setbacks now provide additional room for strong investment in transport and in public works of all kinds. It is necessary to modernise the infrastructure and to maintain jobs in the construction industry. In these two sectors, maturity and lag have increased for many years. The arguments of both the current government and previous governments against increased investment have been the own budget balance and the rule of action, which are supposed primarily to keep track of annual expenditure and not of investments lasting 50 years. The current economic situation should prompt both current and previous government parties to realize that a different and new reality also requires a different and new tool. That tool is not new to the Progress Party. This tool is FrP's tool. Increased frameworks for municipalities with designation are FrP tools. Tax and tax relief are FrP tools. Clear, predictable and long-term financing of investment in roads and railways based on fund return and government loans to road and railway undertakings are FrP tools. It should be used now. The country needs it. I noticed that the Minister for Transport in his speech earlier today was as much the head of the Central Party as the Trade Council. She said the Progress Party is in another economic world. Most people are now in an economic world other than the world Government with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have made a budget for. The chief economist in one of the country's largest banks said this morning that the budget of the Progress Party was best adapted to the economic situation. It is a pity that the government is sailing further based on outbound maps!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3213	There is no doubt that the situation on the world financial market is currently unstable and unstable. We have major challenges in the future, although Norway is better equipped to face the financial turmoil than many other countries. It is therefore reassuring to hear today that the Prime Minister is fundamentally concerned with the security and security of Norwegian business and jobs. Businesses and employees are now in a process of conversion, a process of conversion that too many people will feel hard on their bodies. The working party has always had work for everyone as one of its most important heart matters. Now, when we see companies notifying permits, there's cause for concern. Like many others, I'm concerned about jobs in the districts, especially in industrial businesses. I am pleased with the measures that have come so far from the Government and trust that they will be followed up by new measures if necessary. Norway has a large public sector. This is an important buffer when the economy fluctuates. The budget for next year is a good budget to strengthen the community. It is essential for all families and individuals when the economy fluctuates or becomes tighter. Parents should feel confident that they have a good kindergarten and a good school offer anyway. This shows that the Norwegian model with the safety nets we have built is working properly. Next year’s budget for the education sector also has a strong focus on quality in Norwegian schools. The common school, which is to provide an equivalent school for all children regardless of social background, is more important than ever. We live in a knowledge society, and we must have a school that equips our children for the future. The Education budget focuses on early efforts in initial training. This should ensure that children have more teachers during the first four years of schooling. We are now receiving a permanent continuing training offer for teachers and principals. We provide closer follow-up of newly educated teachers, and we increase the quality of teacher training. All of this will ensure that the Norwegian Joint School is even better than it is today. This will help to ensure long-term welfare development in the country and contribute to the smoothing of social disparities. A good school is more important than ever, given the uncertainty that many now feel. It is the young unskilled who only have to go when the crises of businesses arise. Next year's budget includes an interest-rate compensation scheme for school buildings in municipalities and county municipalities. We know that many have challenges related to worn-out school buildings and poor indoor climate. The measure is particularly welcome in view of the current situation with increasing unemployment in the construction industry due to less construction activity. In the financial setting, we give priority to measures to prevent and reduce the major decline in secondary education. We have many measures to prevent non-response, and one of them is to strengthen the advisory service. It is therefore gratifying that today in the setting there are 17 million. kr to career centers around all counties. These centres are resource centres for advisory services in primary and secondary schools. Vocational guidance in secondary education is essential for young people to choose the right direction of study in secondary education. In an increasingly demanding labour market, all young people must have competence in one or more areas. We have to do what we can to contribute to this. If we experience uncertainty about the unstable world economy, the other thing that has it is much worse than us. Many come here as refugees and asylum seekers. This year many have arrived, and more are minors. Many municipalities have taken on the heavy responsibility of receiving minor asylum seekers in different care centres. These are children who need special follow-up, not least in school context. It is therefore gratifying that the red-green majority in the Financial Committee has followed up by granting 15 million. extra kr to support primary education for these children. In view of the future of children, this is one of the most important measures we can take. Schooling is crucial for children’s ability to participate in society. The budget presented has an offensive commitment with a proposed increase in the appropriations for the university and higher education sectors of DKK 1.6 billion in 2009. It is a significant investment in the future, where knowledge and competences will be the pillars of the development of both business and public sector. It is therefore gratifying that today it became known that the government will use another 160 million. kr of the current year's budget to secure the education and research activities of our universities and colleges. There will also be start-up of important constructions in this sector, with new odontology buildings at the University of Bergen and new premises for nursing training at the University of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3228	Policies are priorities. Policies are to put an important priority ahead of less important ones. I wish the government had shown through its budgets in recent years that that's exactly what it did. But unfortunately it has abused the historical opportunities it has had through enormously good economic times in recent years. It hasn't invested for the future, and we'll see that now. It is positive that the Government today partly realises that the budget it has presented does not meet its objectives and that it puts a small patch on the huge wound it has created in the university and higher education sector over many years through its extra appropriations to universities and higher education institutions. But both the government and the sector know that this is not enough. This is really just the smallest thing that could be expected. In a press release today, the Swedish Research Association says that this does not solve the situation for 2009, and the Government has acknowledged the need to strengthen basic funding for universities and colleges by more than 400 million. kr. Tora Aasland said earlier in the debate today that there was an unexpected and large increase in the cost of wage and pension expenditure. I can only understand that the increase in costs may not have been very unexpected. Already on 7 July, a letter from the Ministry of Renewal and Administration went to universities and colleges on the framework for the local wage settlement. You don't have to follow very closely to realize that this year's paycheck was expensive. It should also have been taken into account by the Government. It's no use for the government to use every opportunity to talk about it granting more in the number of dollars and dollars in the sector than previous governments – that's what all governments do. All budgets are growing from year to year. But what the sector is experiencing is a real decline in its budgets. This means that the quality reform is no longer fully funded, and the motivation, quality of study, quality of education and research at the institutions have been seriously affected. Today's government has, despite the small patch it fans in today's debate, broken its promises in research and higher education. It's a very thoughtful and interesting process we've been through. First, the Council of State tries to conceal — or at least not say anything about — the large pension and salary bombs that lie below universities and higher education institutions, and it is not mentioned in the presentation of the budget. And then both the opposition and stakeholder organisations start to take an interest in the numbers -- they start digging, and it's coming out more and more. Gradually, there are concessions from the Government that the budget is not as good as it first said. Nevertheless, the Council of State and the Government defend the budget and believe that it offers good opportunities for good research and higher education for 2009. So, on the same day as the financial debate, all of a sudden, 160 million. kr extra – the final recognition that the budget does not keep targets. I'm a little surprised by the Tora Aasland State Council, which in the media said when you saw the economic whole of the sector, the huge pay and pension gap for universities and colleges, that it was necessary to do something, while in the debate here and again she points out that this is not compensation for wage and pension expenditure. Then the question is, what is it? Well, that's probably the last and greatest proof that the government realizes that the budget it has presented is not going to hold. It's interesting to note that the same state councillor, Tora Aasland, says in her post that she's happy that the basecut is fixed. It is interesting that a Swedish State Council is pleased that the cut-off SV applied to the sector is now corrected. The basic cut of the higher education sector in the 2007 budget is interesting in many ways. It seems that the government has gone into a great deal of work, and then gradually put the money back into the sector again – and then expect cheers. Similarly, the Government removed the interest compensation scheme for school buildings, then put it back — and expected to cheer. That's not the way we operate. The most important thing we can do for the future in Norway is invest in knowledge and research. It does the right in its alternate budget. We're spending extra money on teacher recruitment, on senior measures, we're spending extra money on the Research Fund and we're setting up a separate fund for scientific equipment. We're expanding our hours, and we're betting on basic skills. Where the government does not have the ability to give priority to the most important thing, the opposition takes more than the job — and the right takes the lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3254	Part of today's debate is taking place as a Norway championship for the possible unemployed. There's cause for concern, and there's no bad discipline to compete in. What's good at the entrance to the economic cycle we're facing now is that we have historically low unemployment thanks to good business cycles, but also a conscious policy. For example, there are now 37 000 more employees in the municipalities than it was when we took over the government power. With regard to this touching care for the unemployed, Robert Eriksson of the Progress Party in a line to State Council Andersen today expressed concern that we were not fast enough on the job and did not have the resources to meet unemployment. Then it is worth noting that the Progress Party – with all its millions – found in its budget proposals for the current period to cut 180 million. kr in the first line in relation to unemployment. Today's debate is mainly about one theme, and that is the financial crisis. It's a reflection of the serious situation our country is in. We are also affected by the crisis created by greedy American bankers, an irresponsible American central bank and an American president who made himself flat for the banks' desire to relax regulation. I am pleased that the Government is dealing properly with this crisis – with thorough analysis and effective action where there is a need – without being tempted to throw itself on any proposals that are being promoted, in order to show the power of action. This applies in relation to the liquidity situation of banks, in relation to the situation of financing exports and not least in relation to the budget for next year, including fiscal measures announced early next year. In this debate, I and others have asked representatives of different opposition parties to explain how tax relief for the wealthiest can be said to be targeted to meet the problems created by the financial crisis. I have asked whether it is that the richest in general are particularly hard hit by the financial crisis, or whether those who inherit shares in unlisted limited liability companies are the same as they are now losing their jobs due to lower demand in the world economy. I have also asked whether giving the hundreds of people with the highest wealth a targeted relief in the wealth tax is a particularly effective tool for getting people to work. The opposition parties agree on only two points in this debate. One is that the government's budget, with careful language use, is not perfect. We agree with that. It's rare budget is perfect. The second is that they are heading towards the government’s sealing of tax holes, which until now have resulted in rich people in Norway not paying taxes. It is therefore justified that there are measures against the financial crisis. Three billion dollars is a lot of money. I accept that others may believe that it is both right and important to give this money to the richest in the country, but then it is fair to expect that they give a reason why it should be. Let me be very clear. Firstly, those with high income and high wealth are probably the ones who have the best prospects for tackling the challenges created by the financial crisis. The financial crisis gives no reason to waste money on this group. Secondly, giving money to the richest in this society will not give more jobs or lower interest rates for those who are now struggling to deal with the mortgage. Tax relief to the richest is not and will not be a proper response to the problems of the financial crisis in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3273	I would like to dedicate my contribution primarily to the municipal planning of the Government, and I would like to start by briefly describing the government's draft budget to the local government sector. I'll say it like this: it's going to be more of a lot, and it's going to be more. There will be more money – NOK 4.7 billion in free income and SEK 8.4 billion in total real growth. In addition, it is assumed that the local government sector will receive about 50 % of the total population. 13 billion kroner in wage and price compensation. In 2009, the sector passes DKK 300 billion for the first time. There is more money from the state to contribute to increased maintenance and new construction in the school sector. Swimming pools are also part of the interest-rate compensation scheme. That's how it would be more swimming, and that's good. And there'll be more money to rehabilitate church buildings. Maybe there will be more religious services – we'll see. There will be more money for the resource-intensive services – for those who depend most on us. While the previous government reduced the scheme as the need increased, our government has created a better system and increased the appropriations by nearly NOK 1.3 billion over two fiscal years, and it is worth noting. The state is more than ever in front of these people, and the municipalities are giving them the offers and the security. There will be more income balancing between Norwegian municipalities and thus more justice between people in this country. There will be more ‘smart’ – that is, several different grants to help meet the different challenges facing municipalities in our country. It concerns the district grant, the grant to low-income municipalities, the growth municipality grant and the capital grant. At the same time, the discretionary measures have been retained. The same applies to the small municipal grant, as it is now called, and to the North Norway grants. An income guarantee scheme and a change in the timing of population censuses take even more account of the challenges in municipalities with major changes in population and other conditions. In other words, we have worked hard in our team game with Kommune-Norway. There'll be even more money for our kindergarten bet and more for increased hours and quality in school. I could mention several examples of red-green offensive and total community involvement. From the municipal proposition was presented in the spring until the budget was presented in October, the government saw the need to increase the free revenues from the range of DKK 3.5 to 4 billion to NOK 4.7 billion. Wages and salaries had increased, and it seemed to go against more difficult times. It considered the Government. A good municipal arrangement was well received. But despite the great economic upliftment of the government in many areas that are important for increasing the size and quality of municipal services, there are now many municipalities and county councils that are struggling to sew together their budgets. We take that seriously, seriously. The problems are not just the result of the financial crisis, which came to many harshly and brutally. The compensation of employees varies from one municipality to another. The level of interest rates plays an important role in the local economy, we need to take account of fiscal policies, and some – certainly quite well-intentioned – have used time-limited, exceptional revenues and VAT compensation to keep up or strengthen the level of activity. Some of them are facing additional challenges now. Yesterday, the Government announced that it will be disappointed in even more coal, through further fiscal measures that will be presented next year. Measures in the local government sector shall be assessed in particular in this context. Here, the needs and opportunities are great, and the municipalities are ready to act quickly. We know that, among others. a recent study carried out by KS. This will be an extraordinary bet all in today's situation will be earned. This will result in new construction and rehabilitation and loving jobs for the construction industry. The employment perspective must also be taken into account with regard to public employment when finally bringing fiscal measures together. We must remember that ordinary maintenance, through the accounting regulations, is referred to the annual operating budgets and is therefore dependent on the action space of the municipal economy. Finally, I would like to express great satisfaction with the Government's proposal to improve housing aid, which involves NOK 1 billion more annually in housing aid payments. 50,000 more households will be able to receive housing, of which 10,000 are families with children. The government is doing more and more for those who need us the most, and much for the benefit of all of us. As a result, there will be more of a lot in the municipal sector, and again: more will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3307	After having followed both the debate today and, not least, various media performances lately, there are press conferences on Sunday afternoon, there are recordings in the media in a number of different contexts, I have started to become a little in doubt. What we have to deal with today is that the State budget for 2009, or are we already far in the process of revising the same budget? There is reason to ask this question once you have seen the signals coming. First, we heard that the government's budget is well-organized to deal with problems that the financial crisis is giving us. Then we've finally seen that the government has taken on board that the budget that was made was not at all adapted to the crisis in which we are now in the middle of it. The representative Hagebakken just before me here showed how amazing it has been in the municipalities. Then I have to draw some attention to the process that is taking place in Norwegian municipalities right now. The financial crisis also engulfs the municipality of Norway. We are constantly seeing municipalities that have to save, which have to change the structure of their own structure, which soon have to increase all taxes, water taxes, renovation taxes, there are different types of taxes that the municipality collects, precisely because the income of the municipality is affected as a result of the financial crisis because the tax intake is reduced. I have not seen any action from the Government in that area. What the government has really done, and what they are still succeeding in, is shifting more and more expenditure to those people in this country who already have the most difficult. We're talking about sick people. We're talking in the first row about the chroniclers, people who already have high expenses. Here you have really succeeded in screwing in order for them to have to pay more. It happens despite the fact that the Government in its own Soria Moria statement writes that the excesses are to be reduced and kept at a low level. I'm going to give the government parties some information about what has happened in the time that the red-greens have been sitting by the power. Self-proprietary cap 1 has increased by 12,3 pst. The proportion of medical attention has increased by 10.25 pst. In the case of reimbursement for psychological assistance, the proportion of the self-employed has increased by 10.25 pst. The propensity for physiotherapy has increased by 10.25 pst. I don't know about this rhyme with the Soria Moria statement, where you write that the excesses are to be reduced and kept at a low level. I believe that at least one should reconsider one's own statement. However, the government now has a golden opportunity both to improve the situation in the care of the elderly and to take measures to stop much of the unemployment that we can now see will be affected in the construction sector. The Government proposes to build 1 000 new care places/sickness homes in Kommune-Norway in 2009 in the State budget. According to the sum calculated, 500 new sick homes and 500 new nursing homes are added. This is too small when we look at the need out there. Now there's an opportunity to realize more of the places that there's a screaming need. But no, as far as the care sector is concerned, we stop and say no, only 1000 places – despite the fact that the government itself has said that by 2015 we must have at least 12,000 new places in place. I hope the next package from the Government, which may be coming on Sunday, will be about building 2,000 additional hospitals, because the problems and challenges in the care sector are finally being addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3324	Today we are dealing with a budget to strengthen the community, because that is what we are prioritizing. The budget for the red-greens will enhance the quality of broad Community solutions in health, care, school and kindergartens. Differences in living conditions are balanced, and efforts for transport, the environment, development and research have a significant boost. Differences in society shall be reduced. That is why we are once again proposing the greatest increase in funding for poverty measures. The differences in living conditions shall be balanced, inter alia, by: increased minimum pensions, increased housing support and efforts for the unemployed. The government's child care effort has produced significant results during the period 2006–08. New kindergartens have been set up for 40,000 young people, and it is estimated that most municipalities will have full childcare facilities by the end of 2008. We continue to invest in primary education by increasing the allocation of primary education, new measures to recruit teachers for secondary education and to provide further training for teachers and school leaders in primary school. This budget also provides a way and a significant boost. The red-greens present a budget with a historical commitment to the environment and development. With a grant of €26.2 billion, the target is 1 pst. of gross national income, and that is all reason to be proud of. With this we are involved in lifting up the world's poorest and can create a fairer distribution in the world. I wonder if the representative Leirstein and I have been in the same place for the last seven weeks, after hearing the representative earlier today. So the red-greens have put forward a state budget that is very offensive, with a historical commitment on the road and on the road, and with a comprehensive programme for state construction, among others. a loan and grant scheme for the refurbishment and construction of schools and swimming pools – totaling DKK 15 billion. A year ago, the government announced that there would be a decline in the economy, and all estimates and forecasts from others and from our own apparatus were taken into account when this state budget was made. So the situation was followed minute by minute and hour by hour, and it's still going to be, with new forecasts and new estimates, because we're not playing economics, and we're not playing with people's jobs. Just because we are fundamentally concerned with the security and security of Norwegian businesses and Norwegian jobs, a number of measures have been taken since the budget was presented, i.e. the last few weeks. We might also have to keep doing that in the future, if necessary. So the red-greens have implemented measures that are needed, where they are needed, and when they are needed. We will act on short notice and with the power and strength necessary to counteract the effects of the crisis. It is also not right when the representative Sanner said earlier today that the government – and we – does not want dialogue. We will, and the opposition is cordially welcome to join a dialogue. But our packages therefore intend to secure employment, and the environmental and distribution profile will be the basis for the design of any new budgetary changes. When the representative Sanner's dialogue consists of a recipe that is pure Right-wing policy, which is quite natural since it is in the Right-wing Representative, it is equally natural that what we want to use as a recipe is red-green policy, that is, a policy that is fully capable of draining the Norwegian economy through a turbulent time and securing Norwegian jobs and activities. When we have an overall opposition that cracks very much in its economic policy – where the Left and Right have the same framework as the Government, where the Christian People's Party will spend $4 billion more, and where the Progress Party will spend $30 billion more – it is not easy to know what is really the opposition's recipe or alternative crisis packages for the Government. When the representative of the Christian People's Party today says that the budget has expired, and that the various packages do not have real economic value, it really surprises me a lot, for both the LO, the business, the financial industry and others with which the Government is in close dialogue, say this works, and welcome the packages. Then I might be rhetorical to say that these aren't real economic packages, but there's very much real policy in these packages. This budget that we are going to adopt today will give people a better everyday life. There's uncertainty in financial policy around the world, but we're going to spend tens of billions now for people to have a job to go to, a house and a home to live in and a community to live good life in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3352	It has been repeatedly pointed out today that one should be reasonably red-green in order not to realize that the government's budget has expired. The financial crisis has changed most of the assumptions of the government budget, but the government is therefore choosing to close its eyes to it. But that doesn't mean that there was a good budget before the financial crisis entered the Norwegian economy. The government has once again ignored the challenges such as: the industry has been facing it. The government’s budget does not take into account the necessary road projects that will ensure increased competitiveness or trigger investments in many corner stone holdings located in the districts. Moreover, the depreciation rates in the Government's budget proposals, which are the lowest in Europe, do not suggest investing in producing products with less energy consumption or less greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, government parties are able to signal that CO2 free quotas cannot be expected in the future either, which can send the process industry abroad. It's not the first time the industry experiences being countered by this government. It has now become apparent to the part of the industry that believed in the election vows of an industrial power regime that they have been fooled. Now the government admits that it will not bring anything that is close to what was promised in the election campaign, and the government refers to power purchases at market-based prices. So now the powerful industry is left to the same market forces that the government owes when something goes wrong. At the same time, government parties have removed future opportunities to own their own power generation in order to be self-sufficient in cheap power. When the Government virtually tightens bones under all the new power projects of importance, either by vetoing larger hydropower projects or by putting unrealistic rationale into gas power projects, the recipe is for high power prices. It gives a clear signal to the industry that this is not a priority field of activity, and the future of many jobs becomes uncertain. The Progress Party has presented a draft budget that takes account of many of the challenges facing industry in general. We strengthen businesses by reducing taxes and taxes. We make it easier and cheaper to get the goods into the market. We focus more on industry-related research and development. We strengthen the educational institutions and thereby gain access to skilled labour. We are focusing on increased power generation, which will provide more reasonable prices for the powerful industry. We give access to more risk capital to trigger investments. We are strengthening the state agency to assist industry. We strengthen the health system, so that people can go to work instead of standing in a health queue. And we give tax relief to most people, so that you can maintain purchasing power and keep the economy going. The Progress Party chooses to make an offensive effort – both to improve well-being and to secure jobs. We're in a time when the government's gambling with workplaces is not the right medicine. A budget that adds to tax incentives for business shows that government parties are not of the same opinion. In a time of financial crisis and more difficult access to capital, the Government adds to a policy that will drain enterprises from equity. You have to have strong nerves to invest in your business with this government. Coming up with daily crisis packages instead of accepting the invitation from the opposition parties to create a broad package of measures to address the financial crisis is not a solution to the real crisis of confidence. If it is more important for this government to prevent business tax relief than job security, the government will never find the solution to this crisis. Then what was initially a poor budget will be a disastrous budget. Finally, let me note that I record that the Minister of Industry chooses not to be present in this debate, which is quite alarming at a time when the population is turning to collapse and government to save businesses, jobs, houses and homes. I take note that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade believes that she does not have an important role to play in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3374	It has been interesting to follow this debate. To put it this way: there has been a lot of back and forth — around forecasts, whether the budget is up-to-date enough or not, and speculation about how the financial crisis will actually turn out. There are obviously many prophets in this building. Today, Nav presented figures that show that the registered unemployment rate has increased sharply in the last month. We have to go back over five years in time to find a corresponding growth in a month. Many people have talked about this here today, and that's all reason to be concerned. But what I have to say is that I am a little surprised that some representatives strongly criticize the Government for being passive and not up-to-date, while they themselves cut in actions just to those who are unemployed – such as the Right. They have provided an alternative budget where they cut in the total number of action places and cutters in the day-to-day payment scheme. If the Right is so concerned, and if they think that they have taken more than others into account today's situation, such cuts become completely incomprehensible to me. I read in the financial situation that the Right will have a better job market, not an action market, that we need to improve the framework conditions for business, that more should be done for those at risk of losing their jobs, and that more should be done in the individual workplace. All right, all that, but it helps a little bit for those who have actually lost their job, and who can't just suck right into a new job, who need help finding a new one, who needs qualification if it's cut into the labour market measures and in the daily allowance. It is important that we now provide Norwegian businesses with security, and do what we can to secure our jobs. That is why today we are dealing with an offensive budget with a target of exactly that. And therefore, the Government has also announced exceptional measures. Then we have to follow developments carefully and put in place new measures whenever and where necessary. More governance is important now, not less. All the experience from the financial crisis around the world is proof of that. There we have a good starting point in Norway with the welfare model that we have and that has been mentioned by many in the debate today – with a strong and large public sector, with a decent working life, where the state pursues an active industrial policy, and where we guarantee people equal access to good welfare services such as health, school and care. It has always been important for the Workers' Party to have an active labour market policy, both in good and bad times. That is why we have always had a high level of action, although unemployment has been low. We're expanding the Youth Guarantee. We have been working on reforms to increase the number of people working, such as the Nav reform and new tools such as the qualification programme, redundancy pay and work performance assessment. Working for everyone is the most effective tool we have to prevent poverty. I have noticed that in today's debate several people have called for a more offensive poverty response. To that end, the Government has increased by up to DKK 3 billion in the annual appropriations for action against poverty, in addition to what the Bondevik II government presented in 2005. With that it is not said that all poverty has disappeared, because it is not that simple. We have the Action Plan on Poverty, which focuses on giving people more opportunity to get into work, to develop children and young people, and to improve living conditions for those who are the most disadvantaged. In this year's budget, there is one thing in particular that I think it is important to bring forward. It is the considerable effort to use housing aid as an instrument against poverty. That arrangement will mean very much too many. The fight against poverty is about having a comprehensive policy, with prevention, with offensive labour market policies, with good welfare services for all and targeted action for those who have the most difficulty. Such a policy lies at the heart of the budget we are going to discuss today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3393	The Soria Moria Declaration of the Government states that it is to be invested in the northern regions. The Minister of Defence stated early after his inauguration that the defence should be strengthened in North Norway. Unfortunately, we have not seen much of this announced investment. The attitude of the Advance Party has always been that the defence must be provided with funds in relation to the tasks we impose on the Defence. The Progress Party believes that we need to strengthen both the economy of Defence and the size of the organisation. We are of the opinion that Norway must stand strongly armed against threats to infrastructure and soft targets. We therefore believe that it is necessary to increase the overall competence and understanding of today's and tomorrow's threat picture. The presence of the army in North Norway must be strengthened. It is essential that we have forces in North Norway to demonstrate the will and ability to be present and to uphold sovereignty. With recent developments in Russia focusing on better material and more practice, it is clear that Russia now has a more effective offensive approach to protection of interests. It is worth noting that the modernisation that takes place in the Russian defence also leads to the deployment of high-speed and mobile departments that will be able to safeguard or substantiate Russian interests in the northern regions. When we then know that according to the Inspector General, the Army cannot defend anything but a part of Oslo, it is not just terrifying, but disastrous. The Party of Advances wants a battalion similar to the Telemark battalion to strengthen the structure of the Army so that the tasks of the Army can be properly resolved. We therefore want to increase the operating budget by 750 million in our alternative budget. kr. We are concerned that the Maritime Defense has the lowest number of vessels in modern times. What's worse is that the ones we have are mostly in the harbour. The government's lack of understanding of the need for more ships and more operational sailing days is amazing. That the government doesn't understand the importance of fleet bases in different places along our long-distance coast is incomprehensible. That there is a need for a base in the north should be obvious. The Progress Party believes that Olavsverm is a perfect facility for our new MTBs, frigates, etc., to operate in the north. It is very important, in our opinion, that the presence of defence in our northern seas is strengthened. Russia’s efforts in the north and aggressive fisheries policies show the need for the presence of both coastguard vessels with helicopters and marine vessels to show a Norwegian presence. We also address the challenges of maritime defence in the training of crews. We therefore want to increase the operating budget by 400 million in our alternative budget. kr. The Progress Party is concerned that the Air Force has also marked the increasing activity in Russia. The constant interception of Norwegian airspace shows that Norway needs solid air defence with capabilities to ensure Norwegian sovereignty, deterrence and surveillance. Unfortunately, the current budget does not carry out these increased activities. As regards the location of the base structure, it is important to consider where to patrol and practice the aeroplanes. The proximity of these areas must play an important role in the choice of location. It is important that we look forward in this context and take into account any restrictions or requirements on the new fighter aircraft to be acquired. The phase-in of new transport aircraft will impose additional costs on the Air Force. On this basis, we want to strengthen the operating budget by 180 million. kr in our alternative budget. Today, in the opinion of the Progress Party, the Coast Guard has a low level of activity. The Coast Guard, with the budget submitted, will have a small increase in the number of operational sailing days in North Norway, but there is still much to be required for the Coast Guard to have a large enough presence in the sea areas. In this context, the number of vessels is too low to meet our interests in the Norwegian regions. Unfortunately, we also see that the air surveillance will be further cut this year, as a result of the forthcoming maintenance of our Orion aircraft. This is a bad signal to send to other fishing nations operating in our seas. We want to strengthen the Coast Guard's capacity, educational level and presence. That is why, in our alternative budget, we are proposing to increase the operating budget by 350 million. kr. I was also going to say something about the Home Office, but it is going to be my associate Per Roar Bredvold to take care of his entire contribution later. We are concerned that the defence must get the material that is best suited to the task of the defense at all times. In this context, it is necessary to increase material acquisitions in order to be able to adequately equip the defence, on the basis of the criteria given by the various missions. Therefore, in our alternative budget, we want to strengthen the chapter on larger equipment acquisitions through the external budget by NOK 2 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3419	Three red-green years of government have passed. It is absolutely impossible not to be proud of the results that the red-green government has achieved. We have changed course in very important and fundamental areas of society. We've stopped the irresponsible fiscal policy that led to the right, a kind of tax haven that allowed well-appointed gentlemen to hit their chests. These tens of billions that the right would spread out to the richest of us, we have instead chosen to spend on community tasks in society. The municipalities, where the people live, have in three years received less than 30 billion dollars in transfers. It doesn't solve all the challenges in Municipality-Norway, but many. At the same time, the financial crisis will create further challenges in the future, something the Government is doing about. The Progress Party believes that the financial crisis has arisen because of too many laws and regulations in the market. How far away is it going to be from reality? The whole world, except for the windiest of the blues, now believes that the market should be better run, and that the future indicates that the market cannot rule alone. It must be controlled and controlled. In its 2009 alternative budget, the Progress Party will spend well over 30 billion more on oil than on oil, among other things. by giving NOK 29 billion in tax bills. I want to ask the right: is this a responsible party? And can it possibly be done to reign with a party that always turns the cape after the wind? I am proud of the red-green action packages that are now coming in order. Yes, I said in my turn and in order, because the government has a good overview of when action needs to be taken, and where they are to be used. The opposition is still crying out that we are in arrears and are not taking the right grips. But here the government is holding a rough course and is also dealing with business and employment outside. Tripartite cooperation works, in addition to cooperation with municipalities and county councils. I am currently especially proud to be from North Norway. The red-green government has a strong and good policy for our northern part of the country. The North Region initiative is diverse and will deliver results in many areas in the future. Next year's budget will strengthen the North Region Initiative by more than 500 million. kr. Then we have increased the bet in the north by over $1 billion on these three years, with many different measures. In addition, we have decided that Reitan at Bodø should be the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters. Here, the Chairman of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, has carried out a reversal if she comes to power, but it will never happen after all the gap that is revealed between the opposition parties – fortunately, I would say, on behalf of the Norwegian people. The red-greens have created hope and optimism throughout the country, and we who live there will contribute to the continued sustainable management of both marine and rural areas, which will create businesses and exciting jobs. And just jobs are a lot of people who are busy these days. We hear about more and more companies that have to leave or cancel employees. However, with several targeted measures, short-term action and several interest rate cuts, this government will loose Norway through an economic turbulent period and secure Norwegian jobs and businesses the help they need in an economic crisis. Even in a time of economic unrest like this, we are pursuing a credible and predictable policy. We're dealing there with the bourgeois quarrels. We'll bet there the bourgeois kittens. We put community and solidarity ahead of egotism and tax havens. If anyone were to be the least in doubt, we're ready to continue our social struggle in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3440	Norway is better equipped than many other countries to deal with the international financial crisis, among others. because we have a large public sector. Municipalities play a major role in Norwegian society, not only because they are responsible for central tasks, such as school and care services, but also because they are an important contributor to keeping the wheels running in economic downtime. For example, the municipal sector is part of the employment rate of 19 pst. Municipalities are a major buyer of building industry assignments because they manage 32 million. m2 and have plans in mind. That's actually the same thing as 10 pst. of the country's total building mass. KS has estimated that the municipalities are ready to realise investment projects of DKK 30 billion in construction and construction already in 2009, under the condition that the government gives increased promises. The municipalities are a sector that is a stabilising element in times of crisis. The municipal budget for next year was well received. KS was positively surprised because they got more money than what was announced in May. The Land Association of Construction was pleased, for they saw that there were arrangements for renting and care facilities and loan arrangements for maintenance in schools, basins and churches. The housing market was difficult to cope with, which makes it possible for 50,000 new households to put the key into a safer home. $8.4 billion makes a difference. So far in this period, there's reason to be impressed by all the local authorities that they've been given with the funds they've been given. Clearly, it means that every day in 2006 and 2007 there were 31 new jobs. Clearly, this means that 17 new ones were added before care and that 35 new kids were given kindergarten each day these two years. It makes a difference. The growth of activity has continued in 2008. TBU has recently estimated the growth to well 3 pst. This means even more people added before care, schooling and kindergartens this year. I'm humble to the situation that the municipalities are now in. There is no doubt that the increase in costs will make the situation necessary for some municipalities in both 2008 and 2009. That's why the government has added to a stronger growth in revenue than what we're notifying in the municipal bill. Worst in the world economy is worrying about the budgetary procedure in many municipalities. Among other things, there is uncertainty about tax estimates for 2009. There's something that we're obviously following closely. In addition, the Government has now announced fiscal measures in January/February, which will not be least significant for the local government sector. The sector is called entirely special. It is good to know that there is a considerable need here; it is possible here to take action quickly that has an impact on employment, and it is important to exploit these opportunities. In my budget, there are also 200 million. kr in regional policy measures. The point is, among other things, the county must become an even more important regional development operator. However, with the measures we are about to take, there is a possibility to link the situation we are now seeing before construction, to solving important tasks around many communities, important tasks that are, in fact, pure investment for the future. This applies to actions that are requested, which the municipalities have been forced to give priority to because they have given priority to new tasks. It is for infrastructure that is of major importance for the construction of this country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3457	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3460	The Progress Party is the only party that, in its alternative state budget, has actually taken concrete and effective action against the situation we are facing as a result of the financial crisis. We have proposed relatively large additional appropriations, just to maintain municipal buildings, which today have a lag of NOK 142 billion, we are increasing the interest compensation scheme, and we are putting in extra funds of nearly NOK 3 billion to advance the development of hospitalization sites. Here it is important to take action very quickly, and it is also fully possible to do so. So you don't have to wait months to take measures that we really know very little about so far. What's the point of waiting so long, while the municipalities dwell in their budgetary processes, and we see redundancies in the construction industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3467	I think the most important thing now is a well-functioning banking system. There the government has already come with measures. It has also been done by the Government towards the Municipal Bank, which is a very important player for the municipal sector. Then I actually have to remind you that when it comes to the measures that Amundsen is now calculating, there is a strengthening in the budget that will work from 1 January. Plans are ready that one can then combine and put into action immediately. Then the discussion becomes actually a matter of dosage, and the government is now ready to introduce additional measures in the month of January/February. I take the complete distance from a description where it is said that the government is behind. The government provided a budget that many called expansive. It must now work, and then the additional measures will be in January/February.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3472	The right also proposed to double the interest compensation scheme, so that municipalities would receive NOK 5 billion instead of NOK 2 billion, as proposed by the Government for the construction and upgrading of construction. But I fully agree with the Council when she says that it is a prerequisite to have a well-functioning banking market. It doesn't have one in the municipal sector today. Municipal credit has a loan stop and, in reality, the Kommunalbank has a monopoly. The Government will take action to ensure that competition in lending to municipalities is ensured, for example: by purchasing local government credit now from Export Finance – it is for sale – and allowing the state’s ownership of municipal credit to be managed by SIVA, so that a local government credit is held at arm’s length from the Municipal Bank, i.e. providing a functioning market for municipalities where competition exists, so that municipalities are experiencing the lowest possible interest rate on the loans that they are now going to raise just to keep the wheels running.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3479	The government is very busy securing a well-functioning loan market for the local government sector as well. For my part, I had an early meeting with various actors here, with Kommunegreditt on the situation there, with Kommunalbanken, KS etc. I thought it was interesting to register now the broad engagement that is here just to secure for the first Municipal Bank. We can do that because the state owns 80 pst. So now we have contributed capital so that the municipalities can borrow between 15 and 20 billion dollars. Then it's clear that both for municipalities and for society, it's important that these are competing institutions. Therefore, it has been notified by the Government that the State as a partner of Export Finance will contribute to a good structural solution for Municipal Credit, so that municipal credit can still contribute to good competition for municipalities on the loan market. But I think Bent Höie agrees with me that concrete solutions can't be taken here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3484	The Council of State said in its statement that the central association of the municipalities, KS, was so positive when the budget came. The Christian People's Party also said a lot of positive things, and we supported all the actions taken against the municipalities. But KS has also said more in the weeks that went by after the state budget was presented. They said among other things: that the tax revenue does not appear to be such in the municipalities as it was provided for in the State budget. It has an understanding, but it is a serious situation for those who are now sitting and planning next year's budget around the whole country. The council replied that we are following this, and she went on to say that there is more to spring. But the municipalities have to know what's coming right now. Can the Council of State give a guarantee that regardless of whether the size of the failure is 2 or 3 billion kroner, it will be compensated? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3491	I must say that I was surprised when I saw that KS was quoted as the tax revenue could go down by NOK 3 billion. I actually also heard the representative Tørresdal on a channel saying that she knew that the tax revenue was going to be lower next year. It's a figure of $4.5 billion that's got stuck – that's initially NOK 3 billion in reduced tax and then NOK 1.5 billion in losses in the stock market. I have not seen that KS has not confirmed or cancelled that number, but I have never before experienced that KS has tried the Ministry of Finance's tax estimate. What we know for the future now is that it's uncertain. The municipalities are wise to stick to the Government's tax estimate. Then I'm going to make sure that we're a government that will secure the local welfare. That means that we follow closely and set up actions, as we already have alerts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3498	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3501	These are tough times for Norwegian companies and workers, with banking crisis and economic downturn. At that time, it might be thought that a majority government would be an advantage, with effective decision-making mechanisms and levers to address challenges on a continuous basis. The reality seems, unfortunately, to be the opposite. Unfortunately, we know a rebounding attitude at a time when thousands of employees lose their jobs, and where companies carry out dramatic conversion processes. There were not many days between the presentation of the budget, until it became obvious to everyone that the map did not match the terrain when it came to the development of the Norwegian economy. The SSB only presented a week later new figures that showed dramatic increases in unemployment, falling investment, a slowdown in the Norwegian economy that we haven't seen in decades. What does the majority government do with the budget when it acquires such new knowledge? The answer is short and well nothing. You don't do anything. The parties to the Government do not propose a single change in the budget. On the contrary, you sit there, with your hands trapped – for six long weeks, until yesterday. The only thing you did yesterday was to announce that you will be sitting for two new months on the ceiling of thought in order to reflect on possible changes in the budget during the month-end of January/February 2009. It is clear that the additional measures adopted in January/February of next year will not take effect until the earliest autumn of 2009. This becomes too passive. I registered that representatives from the government parties earlier today claimed that the government has support in the business community for the management of the crisis. Let me therefore quote the title of the NHO’s reaction yesterday: ‘actions are too late’. Nor has business policy in recent years helped to make businesses better equipped to meet the current situation. Stoltenberg came to the table in 2005, and has only administered the good times. He has chosen to increase taxes on business by DKK 10 billion compared to our last draft budget, down-priority research and development and down-priority road construction in relation to the economic space. On the other hand, the right has systematically prioritised the opposite. Right will invest in the future, in growth-enhancing measures such as increased investment in knowledge and research, more money for road construction and growth-enhancing tax incentives. This is in line with the rule of action, which stated that the revenue from the oil fund should be used for growth-promoting purposes, research, infrastructure and tax relief. The NHO has estimated that the Stoltenberg II government has prioritised completely different purposes in good times. The government has only used 15 pst. oil revenue on growth promotion measures. The Bondevik II government used 90 pst. Nor is it surprising that the cyclical survey of the NHO shows that the framework conditions for enterprises and Norwegian jobs have been weakened every year after this government took over. It is also clear that more enterprises than necessary will end, more than necessary will be unemployed with the government’s priorities during this period. My impression is that the Government is in an ideological predicament where the equity of the companies has been given the « wealth» label that is owned by the «rich» and «those that already have the most». This is why the Norwegian Government is increasing the tax on enterprises, while almost all other countries in the world are cutting taxes, regardless of political orientation. Let me explain how the removal of the 80 pst rule works. The NHO President made an excellent presentation in VG on 11 November to explain this context. He has to pay 2.2 million. DKK in tax on income of 1,8 million. kr. His sister has to pay $1.1 million. NOK in tax of an income of well NOK 400000. The consequence, of course, is that the company they own has to take out equity to pay the property tax, and that weakens the security of those who work in this company. This symbolism policy affects thousands of family businesses in Norway, who have to pay the Government's property tax at a time of redundancies and lay-offs. The increase in the inheritance tax for family farms is another serious example of the industrial policy of this government. The restaurant owner in Bergen, Eric Saudan, the fifth generation of business owners, explains the impact of the government’s economic policy in its edition 11/2008. His heirs will receive a 25-double inheritance fee with the government proposal – a 25-double. It is quite amazing that the government believes that weakening Norwegian jobs is a good policy of distribution. This country needs a new course. We need a new industrial policy course that provides more jobs, strengthens businesses and increases the well-being of the future. The government has to abandon its symbolic policy. The government must become active instead of being passive. You have to drop the tax increase and put on the table a policy that creates safe jobs and creates the businesses of the future, which can create the welfare of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3536	It is discussed whether the state budget is expansive enough to meet the challenges in the wake of the financial crisis. We're demanding tax relief and more use of money to increase activity in the future. Some will give the same medicine no matter what the suffering is, but are the good doctors? The Labour Party believes that the most important thing is to do the right actions in time. It has been shown by the Government that she can, and that with safe and great authority in a young boy with calls on various instruments. The people can trust that the Government will continue to do so. The state budget is expansive. We're going to spend $92 billion from the pension fund, as much as we expected. In the future, the Government will launch the necessary measures and when needed. The government will act on short notice and with the power and strength needed to counteract the consequences of the crisis. It's decisive now that we don't do anything to destroy a low interest rate. Many depend on low interest rates to deal with their loans for a difficult time, and low interest rates are decisive for business to invest and keep the wheels going. A government budget has to balance its various aspects. The basic aim is to ensure Norwegian business and employment. Therefore, the task of increasing the activity will be without any interest rise. In the state budget, there are major investments that will counteract the recession, including: on transportation. Transport budget is 3.2 billion dollars higher in 2009 than in 2008. This year, too, is increasing in both maintenance and investment. The transport budget has increased every year since the Stoltenberg government took over. As one example: when Bondevik released its last budget, in 2005, the government would invest 1.3 billion dollars in the railways. We now want to invest $3.2 billion in the railways. The difference is enough to build the focused stretch Barkåker – Tønsberg in Vestfold – every year! The alternative budgets from the opposition party contain many proposals for loans, different fund arrangements, OPS osb. We have the most faith in money. We have shown the will and the ability to put the money on the table. This trade effort will continue in the years ahead. Of course, it is also easier to achieve coherent rational development with a large transport budget. So, more money and more money for the money. In 2009, the Government will launch a total of 14 new road projects across the country. For rail too, the budget is large enough to start two new major projects in 2009, in addition to keeping a high pace in the major expansions between Lysaker and Sandvika and between Sandnes and Stavanger. Then the government has announced that one in the new year will come with new measures such as: be able to use available capacity in the construction industry. This should increase road and rail construction speed, because investment in transport infrastructure is a good counter-cyclical policy. It gives two-fold effect with increased employment and even more important: it improves the efficiency of society and business. At the same time, we need to increase road safety and reduce emissions. Therefore, additional measures should also cover rail. Several railway projects must then be prepared for development, the Railway Agency must be on the offensive, and they must receive more money for planning, so that good projects can be started. We're going to build both road and track, but it's a crossroads that there's so much bigger reservation for road than for rail. Of course, the railway system is characterized by previous ‘mare years’. The low level of investment did not make sense for the Railway Agency to complete plans that would only lie down until they were obsolete. Now the situation is different. In three years, investments have increased by 140 pst. The railway effort will continue in a new red-green transport plan and therefore more priority will need to be given to planning. The 2009 budget and other measures will increase the activity. But that alone won't be the right medicine. We can't meet the financial crisis with only more money in the budget. The different measures must work together. For this reason, the Government has taken clear, targeted measures in all from a banking package to strengthen the Municipal Bank, Innovation Norway and the crisis package for export industries, to mention something. This government is closely involved in development, and acts where necessary to ensure the Norwegian economy, Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3556	The government's plan for the municipalities next year, as many have said today, is completely out of date before it is adopted. We have a situation where the government operates with a tax estimate that is totally unrealistic, and that will mean lost tax income for the municipalities to next year, a harder economic everyday life. Even the KS has been warning against this. This could be done with something. Instead, you turn away and say that you should follow the quotation, and then you refer to some packages that are supposed to arrive next year. The cost increase in municipalities has been high in recent years. Although gross growth has been achieved in the municipal framework, the net effect has in practice been absent. The situation for municipalities before the financial crisis was that we were back to the 2005 level, and with the financial crisis this will be much, much worse. That's why the Progress Party, as the only party, has taken that into account. We propose concrete reinforcements of the local authorities' situation until next year. We're doing it in a sensible way, which is caring for the loss of jobs that we're going to experience and that we're already experiencing. Therefore, we strengthen the maintenance in the municipalities by NOK 3 billion. Construction work could start on 1 January 2009 if the Stortinge had adopted it. We also propose NOK 3 billion for the start of construction of new hospitals. We propose a concrete strengthening of the elderly care of NOK 1 billion. We also propose 700 million. kr directly to strengthen school and 200 million. kr to improve the funding scheme for resource-intensive services. We also triple the interest-rate compensation scheme because – let's say – they don't have a full range of 62 million. kr, which is the reality of what lies in the State budget, does not Monge at all. There must be far more funding for this. Then I will draw attention to the great budget winner, who has hardly been mentioned as such. It's actually one of the most increasing items. The cost of Norwegian immigration policy, Norwegian asylum policy, will next year be NOK 8.6 billion. There's an increase of NOK 2.9 billion just for next year. This has gradually become a dramatic heading. Then we haven't even taken into account the costs of a misguided integration policy. The SEK 8.6 billion are those chapters and items relating to housing, which relate to accepting and dealing with asylum applications, and part of what goes on in the IMDI, the Directorate for Integration and Diversity. This is an entirely unsustainable situation. The reason for this is that the red-green government is about to set a historic Norway record – a rather dubious Norway record – in the reception of asylum seekers. 15 000 come to Norway the current year. You add up to the same in next year's government budget. In fact, it is also said that the so-called contractions that the government launched in September have a zero effect. They obviously haven't had an effect. We see no decline in asylum figures. We have a situation where we receive four times as many asylum seekers in Norway as Denmark and Finland make up. We have the fastest growth in asylum in the world, while at the same time at the top of Europe when it comes to the arrival of asylum seekers per year. the population. This is obviously a wild policy of this government, and I record that it is only the Progress Party that warns against this. I note, at least, that while there is never any guarantee of funding for hospitals other than what goes above the framework of the state budget, there has been an automatic provision to guarantee asylum sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3567	I will take another part of the budget that is increasing sharply. The external and development budget for 2009 is offensive and clear. Norwegian foreign policy shall take care of Norwegian interests and values in a rapidly changing globalised world. At the same time, it shall contribute to building a better organised world, promoting peace and human rights, and not least to providing our share of development and poverty reduction. Keywords here are clear priorities, work in international organisations and a historically high aid budget. It is a milestone when Norway reaches the goal of 1 pst in 2009. of gross national income to contribute to the development of poor countries. Although our development policy is much more than assistance, Norway is now moving ahead in the OECD area to achieve the UN’s Millennium Goals by 2015 – eight ambitious goals, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t halving the world's poverty full primary education for all children, boys and girls a reduction in child mortality by two-thirds a reduction in mortality among women in childbirth by three-quarters In sub-Saharan Africa, the most dangerous days in life are the day you are born and when you put children into the world. Therefore, Norwegian aid and development policy place a high emphasis on women’s reproductive health. We've also committed to contributing $1 billion over a decade to bring down child mortality and to make sure that children grow up. But development policy is not just aid. Foreign policy, security policy, climate and environmental policies are closely linked. The government has reinforced this during this period. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development cooperated across drawn lines. A good example is the Africa Strategy, where foreign policy dialogue and cooperation with African countries on global issues go hand in hand with assistance and development measures. Another example is the ‘Aid for Trade’ Trade Action Plan, which has been one of the winners of the aid budget for a few years. There is the objective of giving trade competence to the poorest countries. What does that mean? By building targeted infrastructure, crafts, businesses and export facilities, developing countries can achieve economic development through participation in international trade. The Action Plan places particular emphasis on ensuring that both trade and trade skills serve the weakest groups, promotes women's position and is sustainable in terms of the environment and climate. Trade-oriented development cooperation also focuses on facilitating regional trade between poor countries, for example: between the countries of southern Africa. But democracy, human rights and good governance are also important prerequisites for development, which also characterises the aid budget. Tomorrow, the important Doha meeting in Qatar will start on financing development. The focus here is likely to be on a wide range of development policy issues. Here Norway has set four priorities for our development minister: climate-development relationship, illegal capital flow, the importance of focusing on women in development and debt. In fact, the financial crisis may lead to new countries raising loans, and the issue of debt liability has become very central. Finally, may I add that in the further debate on the aid and aid budget and on development policy, it is also important to set clear priorities. From time to time, the annual aid budgets have been far too far passed without focusing in particular on the content. What are our priorities? What are our priorities, if any? I think we need to get a bigger awareness of where Norway can do the best to get results. This applies to both geographical and sectoral sectors. That's what we'll be able to do when the size of the new year gets a big message about development.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3601	Norway is going to invest in knowledge, and we're going to become a knowledge nation. We're going to be in the international elite class as far as basic, higher education and research are concerned. Norway shall be a leading driver of knowledge and learning. Nevertheless, Norway does very little to get up from a mediocre level of enterprise to play in the elite series. The government budget presented results in most schools in Norway having to cut their budgets. In practice, this means that there are fewer teachers and fewer assistants in school. As a result, the objectives of the Knowledge Lift on adapted training cannot be achieved. It is strange that we hear in celebrations and, to the extent that everyone else speaks from the Minister of Knowledge, how we should invest in knowledge at all stages, while in reality politics shows the opposite. I'm tempted to say some words about how the truth doesn't change, even if the lies are repeated often, but I'll leave it. It would be nice to hear how a Swedish Minister of Knowledge believes that a learner is getting more knowledge of how to cut teaching positions in school, or how to improve the adaptability of the individual student by increasing the number of pupils per student. teacher. The Progress Party has proposed earmarking 700 million. kr for initial training. It would provide the school with the means to maintain and improve the quality of training. There would be clear evidence that Norway stops talking about learning and starts acting. We see the same thing in higher education. Here, too, the Government was to focus on knowledge development and quality. The expectations were enormous in the higher education sector when this government was formed in 2005. The first thing that happened was that they cut in higher education, and after three years of cutting, the UH sector would now have a small boost, so that it could approach the level of funding for 2006. But then one. The Government has deliberately ignored the wage and pension costs that give the UH sector a drop of more than 400 million. kr. As the UH Council said during the budget questioning: the cutting of rest was dramatic, but now it is an abrupt stop! So the government found 160 million. kr in a drawer and said that this should go to the UH sector. That's good. But I have to say, I'm a little bit wondering how this government thinks when I see that the state council of Tora Aasland to the NRK today says, "It's important that someone uses this to strengthen the teaching." So the situation is that yesterday, the university and higher education sectors had to cut 400 million. kr. Today, they're gonna have to cut 260 million. kr. How can teaching be better? How can you see that there should be an improvement in relation to the status of the students? It's not going to work at all. You just can't do that. But this government does it over and over again. It is absolutely necessary that this government already informs the university and higher education sectors that the rest of this money will be put in place at the latest in the revised national budget. If not, this government's credibility in the field of knowledge will be remembered as one of the worst of times. Since the government budget was presented, the economy has turned around at record speed. In periods of increasing unemployment, more will start on higher education. Such growth has not been taken into account in this budget. In at least one area, this government has held a tough course. It's in church policy. There, since it took over in 2005, the government has gradually cut the appropriations for the People's Church. This time they've done it completely, and it's in a very special and perhaps dramatic situation where everyone is talking about developing democracy in the Church of the People, while all the parties agree to loosen the ties to the Church of the State. Then it is not wise to make the Church even poorer and worse able to carry out its important tasks for 85 p.m. by the population. All in all, this budget from the majority government is probably a symbol of the promises of the same government in the Soria Moria Declaration. There is enough evidence that some are more concerned with rhetoric and even more promises than with implementing the heavy promises that are needed to make Norway a knowledge nation in the elite series. Fortunately, there's only one dirty year left!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3629	The 2009 State budget contains a number of important steps both to meet the difficult economic situation we are in and to strengthen the welfare community. Important health and care policies are also being taken here. Among the most important things, we find: a joyful, necessary and long-term commitment to the drug field, a number of interventions in the hospital budget will focus on more interaction in healthcare follow-up to the Health Plan 2015, including: support for 1000 new hospitals and nursing homes in 2009 to improve national medical quality records Some of the main objectives of health policy must be to reduce health inequalities related to living conditions, to provide all equally good health services wherever in Norway they live, and to adapt health services to a future with a different disease picture than today. Fortunately, some diseases are on the way back, or there is better and more effective treatment than before, while other major public diseases are growing rapidly, such as cancer, COPD, diabetes and dementia. The growth of these disease groups makes the need for interaction and for a strong community health service even stronger than before. In the Labour Party, we are therefore very positive about the cooperation reform announced in April by the Council of State, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, and that we are already getting a taste of the reform in the budget by means of funds that are prioritised for pilot projects and various interaction measures. This is a good health budget that should be able to provide very good health services in Norway. But a debate on health can quickly become such that the government parties are accused of boasting. So let me make it clear that everything is obviously not perfect. That's exactly why health policy is so committed to me. However, let me concentrate carefully and objectively on the hospitals and go through the most important steps that are being taken. The first hospital budget I agreed to adopt, for 2006, was approximately NOK 73 billion. For 2009, just three years later, the government has proposed DKK 102.7 billion to the hospitals. I'm not saying that these figures are simply directly comparable, but I'm saying they're at least a signal that hospitals in general have had a very high priority in the budgets that have been submitted. The hospital budget is now in a separate class on the state budget together with the people’s and pension funds as the only ones that exceed the symbolic sum of DKK 100 billion. Pension costs are cleaned up. What has been revised is being followed up, so that an increase of more than NOK 3.9 billion is granted in relation to the budget adopted last year. Operating credits in private banks are converted into loans at the Bank of Norway. The previous government never budgeted for activity growth in hospitals. The red-green government did it for 2008, and does it for 2009. That's why the budget goes up to fund an increase in patient treatment of over DKK 1 billion, which benefits all regions. Splitting between regions shall be corrected and corrected by fresh means and without cuts in Health South-East. A total of 600 million is proposed. SEK to Health West, Health Mid-Norway and Health North as part of the effort to provide a fair distribution of income between the regions. It's supposed to be history. In addition, it is proposed to strengthen the basic allocation of the regions with a total of SEK half a billion in order to facilitate migration in the regions. Overall, the funding of pension costs is therefore being taken into account, in order to finance increased patient treatment and dissociation in 2009. The funds are allocated to facilitate the conversion in hospitals, and we remember that the 2008 budget was taken into account to make it easier to renew hospital buildings and equipment. Several of these interventions are important to address structural challenges that have occurred since the hospital reform. So I'm not saying that things are perfect, but I'm saying that there has been a significant development, and that there will be a significant development in 2009. I started by mentioning that in 2009 we got a bet on the drug field. We know that the treatment offered in this field is not good enough. To say what it is, I think that the deficiencies we have in the drug field would not be accepted in many other areas. Now we're going to follow up the escalating plan for the drug field. We need more effective treatment and a continuous treatment chain. Care should also be taken to ensure that the treatment guarantee for children and young people under 23 years of age is effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3671	We have heard so far in this debate that the Government and the government representatives in this Chamber point out that there is a very expansive budget for the next year – a budget that will meet the unemployment assumed in a short time. How, then, is it that both KF and the municipalities are calling for new and reinforced measures? How, then, is it that UNIO goes out and demands new measures? Why, then, is the construction industry concerned, and not just concerned – they give a clear warning that 60,000 new unemployed people could be at risk in the next two years? What are the instruments of the Government? What have we heard from this hall today? Yes, we have heard that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion has said that we have an expansivity, but the only thing he can point out is that we need to build 1,000 new student homes. 1000 new student homes! If you take 1,000 new student homes and distribute them to all the municipalities in Norway, it is above two student homes per year. municipality. For one contractor company, for one construction company, it takes about four months to build the two dwellings, if you have cast out and are ready to start installing the wood. It's just for one company. Only in my own county, the Nord-Trøndelag, the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs now says that within 12 months they fear to have an open capacity of 81 p.m. - 81 pst.Oh, my God! It says something about how much unemployment we are going to get, and how little targeted the measures the Government is putting forward in this budget will be to combat the unemployment that will come. I think there are a lot of people sitting around wondering. I think there are a lot of people who fear the future: how are you going to make the ends meet? They fear that they will have to go down in income because the job is uncertain. If a person who makes NOK 350,000 gets unemployed, that means he has a gross wage reduction per person. month of NOK 11 000. It also means that you have a total social cost on an annual basis for one person of 333,400 kroner. If the construction industry's numbers are right, and we're at risk of getting 60,000 new unemployed, that means over $20 billion in extra costs for the state. Why not start action earlier to avoid getting this massive unemployment? Why do you have to wait, as the Minister of Finance said at Redaktion EN yesterday? There she said she would follow developments carefully in the future, and then she would come up with new measures in January/February. But if you already see the need for new measures at this time, you already see the need for even greater unemployment, why wait until people become unemployed before taking action? Why can't you put them in the lead to avoid that unemployment? This must be an offensive and expansive policy. That is the policy taken into account by the Progress Party in its State budget. No one in this Chamber, I suppose, disagrees with the measures already taken. What we disagree about is that the measures that have been taken are perhaps too late and too weak and that they need to be reinforced. Finally, in NTB today, I note that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion is concerned about increased unemployment, that it will be considered to extend the rules on leave, and that it will be one of the measures to be taken in the January/February package of measures. Very well known proposes both the Advance Party and the Right Amendment and the extension of the Permitting Rules today. Why can't the government parties join in today and support that proposal? Why do they have to wait until January/February to support it, and not do it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3684	Work for all and security in everyday life is and becomes a trademark of the Workers' Party, and it is also reflected in the budget of the year. I note with pleasure the representative Sponheim’s view, which is consistent with his Government – that we first have to let the financial crisis package work and bring interest down before we start several other measures. After 20 years in a bank, I know that there are two things that crystallize when it concerns the private economy. It's work, and that's the interest rate. One has to ask whether the Progress Party does not have up-to-date figures and forecasts today, because they can't possibly believe that the right medicine when the unemployment is going up-to-date is cut off in the qualification programme, which is just going to deal with those who have trouble getting back to work, or that cutbacks in the Credit Authority are right these days. So I really hope that people get that the tax bill to the right of those who are paying 300,000 kroner is about. 900 kroner. If you have a child in a kindergarten, the tax is exhausted after 4 and 1/2 months. But the tax rate is NOK 96 000 if the income is over SEK 3 million. kr. Is that fair? And the tax district finances one by taking aid from all, the poorest. Both the Right Party and the Progress Party say they're afraid that the unemployment rate will increase more than the forecasts say. Is it the right medicine to allow farmers to go into unemployment — yes, even to intervene correctly in the agricultural agreements concluded? I must almost mention in this context that I have noticed that the duty of peace when it comes to tariff negotiations and wages is not sacred either. What kind of society are we going to have? How is society going to be if one is going to break agreements and not live up to the obligation of peace? There are questions that have to be taken into consideration by the voters. The Norwegian social model consists of a large and strong public sector, which is an important buffer against economic fluctuations. Once the government chooses to introduce measures in the public sector – investment in public construction, roads and railways – it achieves faster results than tax revenues. And when we invest in the public sector, we turn to what's happening in the country. By introducing tax reliefs, the measures will target the rest of the world equally. The Norwegian model is also a well-developed tripartite cooperation and a well-organised working life. Then we must have well-functioning trade unions. Here it has to be added that the Progress Party is going so far that they don't want trade unions, but that each of us is going to negotiate our own salary. Chaos? Yes. Safety in everyday life is a good safety net, through social security schemes, public health care, school, care and kindergarten. It provides security for family members. One will still have basic welfare provision in place in any fluctuations in the economy. The picture of the law-and-order part Progress Party is now striking large cracks. I want to start by showing the alcohol policy of the Progress Party. We all know the relationship between availability, price and consumption. One can refer here to Finland, which a few years ago had severely reduced the alcohol charge. And what happened? Yes, consumption increases and violence increases. No reverses Finland, while the Progress Party has also cut the alcohol tax this year, at 10 p.m. Moreover, cuts in the tax rate do not mean that we will be able to detect more criminals, rather on the contrary. I would like to underline the importance of looking at justice policy in a broad welfare policy perspective. Good welfare is conducive to the alleviation of differences and the prevention of crime. In this year’s budget, the Government increases the investment in the justice sector by DKK 1.7 billion in nominal terms – 9.4 pst. In the period 2006-2009, the increase is approximately DKK 5 billion. This already has some results. The number of reported fractures has decreased, the average treatment time for resolved fractures has decreased, while the clearance rate has increased. We're going to have a close and strong police force all over the country, and I'm glad that the government has taken on board the challenges associated with the manning situation in the police. There is a challenging situation, and one of the main challenges is the lack of outreach police. Increased recordings should have come in the previous expansion period, but now we're in the right level. Of other measures, I would like to mention the senior measures, which only in the fall have meant that almost 150 seniors are longer in work. In addition, we're working on getting more civilians in. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to this government for the strengthening of the work to combat violence and violence in close relations. We're going to have six children's homes, one in each health region, before the end of the year. So we're overfulfilling Soria Moria's promise to establish a children's home.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3712	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3715	I think Mr Nordmann should be pleased that we have a government that is in order in its own house, order in the economy and a steady hand in financial policy, and not least a steady prime minister, a steady finance minister and a steady head of the financial committee. It's the red-green happy for. In a situation that has now seen, with the most serious financial crisis in the world since the 1930s, the Government uses more force and attention to meet the problems than ever before. That's a little bit of an exercise. For the red-green at Stortinget and the Government, the fight against unemployment is the most important job – job no. 1st@item: inlistbox In such a situation, it is essential to do the right things at the right time, and not least in the right way. We are committed to securing Norwegian jobs and Norwegian business. This is why the Government has launched a series of measures, and new measures are likely to come in the time ahead. Because it's actually the way this crisis won't go over during the night. I guess no one's gonna believe it either. The most important thing is that the interest rate has fallen, and that it will continue to fall. It is of great importance to most, and not least to ensure Norwegian jobs. It is also important to show some patience. Fortunately, not least our Prime Minister has done so. We present a government budget with, among other things. a historical commitment to transport, which is also an important contribution to this situation, not least to the construction industry, where there is increasing unemployment. The Bondevik II Government and the Advance Party as a supporting party have never been in the vicinity of such a venture, and I think that should soon be taken over. We're close to evolution, and I think it's almost shameful that the opposition looks with light and light to find things that you can go out and criticize the Government for. What the opposition is doing now is creating dissatisfaction and uncertainty. I think it's a conscious strategy. I also believe that there is a misguided strategy and wrong policy. People are not stupid, people come along and see that the government is running a steady policy to meet what's coming. The Norwegian model is good, we have a large public sector, and it is also important for economic fluctuations. We also have a well-developed tripartite cooperation in the country. We have a good and orderly working life and a good interaction not least between the state and the market. So finally, when you talk about people becoming unemployed, like the opposition is doing now, we're going to hope that you can limit it. But it was actually such that the Bondevik II government with the Progress Party as the supporting party destroyed the employees' rights during the last period. We've strengthened them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3734	Previous speaker said the government had a steady hand on the economy. Comedian Ali couldn't have said it better. This budget is an old budget. It is a budget that was largely snowcreed before the summer holidays. And to put it simply, this is a budget that was made long before the financial crisis. The budget therefore intended to do something quite different than deal with today's situation, for the budget was designed for a situation of overheating economy and full employment. The picture today is unfortunately something quite different. It's tempting to believe Erik Bruce in Nordea, who said that the financial crisis saved the budget, that this budget is well suited to it, since it was so expansive. The problem is that this is not the case at all. It was the Minister of Finance who said a few days ago that this budget was very well adapted to the current situation, and then to go out a few days later and say that unfortunately it was such that the budget did not address the financial crisis at all, and that the government would put on the table a package of measures in January/February. Again to the representative Stroem: it is a bit funny that he focuses on ‘the right things at the right time’. This is, of course, the wrong policy at the wrong time, because this is a budget that does not address today's problems at all, including the future package of measures. The whole debate on the budget is becoming strange, considering that we are now adopting an old budget that will be largely recalibrated in a few months' time. I will go so far as to say that it is at the edge of contempt for the Storting what you are now doing the finance debate to. NHO's bossesman Tor Steig says to DN.no that the government has sacrificed business and given shit in the financial crisis. It's Steig's word, but I think they're striking. The working party has been willing to sacrifice workplaces in order not to give Right-wing rights that it now needs, among other things. tax incentives to preserve Norwegian industry and employment. We need a new course that includes infrastructure, research, renewable energy and growth-promoting tax relief. In the environmental field, Norway needs three main things: it is the conservation of tropical forests; it is technology; and, most importantly, CCS is the most important, and there is a strong commitment to renewable energy. In the renewable sector, we see that we have among the worst framework conditions across Europe. If we're going to use the Norwegian power market to export what we can to replace coal power, we need a whole new regime. And to the representative Heggø, it wasn't that we gave tax reliefs of NOK 96 000 to those who made $3 million, no, we lifted the government's tax incentives for these -- those who create jobs, and those who secure our well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3749	Earlier this year, the Financial Times commented: “Remember March 14, 2008. It was the day that the dream of global free-market capitalism died." Then the housing crisis in the United States had broken the bank of Bear Stearns, but no one could yet know the extent of the financial crisis. Now the U.S. governor says that the United States was days from a total collapse, with stockpile, bankruptcies and massive unemployment as a result. That father is still not over. It is in times like these that the Norwegian welfare state shows its superiority. To many, there seems to be a contrast between an efficient, competitive economy and a high level of distribution, with taxes and large public budgets. The Norwegian welfare state proves the opposite. Distribution is profitable, distribution ensures that people can take education, use the best in themselves. It makes sure that people stay healthy, that you dare to bet. Everybody makes a living on that. But it may be when it's a crisis that we really see how stabilising a large public sector works on the economy. We don't carry people in and out of nursing homes as the economic cycle swings. People must not end their education or take the kids out of kindergarten. Although unemployment is very, very serious for those affected, we have a safety net that allows people to maintain a certain standard of living. All of this seems enormously stabilizing to the economy. When each of us has to bear all the responsibility for our own well-being, we are paralysed when the crisis strikes. A strong state has its backs to carry a crisis, to keep its wheels running and minimize its effect. It helps make everyday life safer for all of us. It has been announced that the Government will bring a job package in the month-end of January/February. Such an offensive attitude is absolutely necessary. At the same time, I would like to stress how important it is that such a package is building up under the transformation of the economy that we need. The three fs in crisis, food, fuel and finance, are symptoms of any of the same. They are the result of the speculation economy, of the inability of countries to channel resources away from speculation and into the real economy in which jobs are created. That's the background for the international talk of a so-called Green New Deal. And what does that mean? Well, that means grasping the opportunities offered by the financial crisis to channel labour into sustainable industry and industrial development. This means investment in renewable energy, the development of climate technologies, energy-efficient construction projects, railway investments, etc. We in Norway must also be able to seize the opportunity offered by a job package to underpin the transition to a greener economy. We're going to deploy more resources. It's necessary. Then it's important that we manage to channel them into those parts of the economy that we're going to build development and employment around the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3758	After listening to this debate today, I have two major concerns. One is the tribute of all the red-green representatives to this budget and the inability to take over the special situation of the world economy and the Norwegian economy now lies within. The second and most important concern I have is that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade has not shown up in the Storting today, and has not made any comments here about the serious situation of Norwegian business. It is very worrying, and it is a serious signal to Norwegian business life, to Norwegian business managers and not least to the employees of the thousands of Norwegian companies who are today wondering what their future is. The role of the Minister of Industry and Trade is to be the main spokesperson of the companies. We just have to realize that she has failed there. The economic crisis we're in is more serious than most of us know. We see what's happening internationally, we see what's happening in the most important consumption-driven economy in the world: American economy has stopped completely. This is going to be very serious in 2009, and there will have to be a lot of active packages to fix this. As a member of the Business Committee, I have daily contact with companies in most industries, and what they report back is very serious. They report back that there is almost complete stoppage in most industries, the trade industry reports failures in sales and export companies report the same. What we need now is a shock of the Norwegian economy. The central bank manager has an important role to play in reducing interest rates now, so that people quickly notice their private economy. But in addition, we also need to learn from what international leaders propose: massive tax reliefs. We now see what the EU leaders have just proposed, we see what Barack Obama has also proposed: tax relief to the middle class, that is to say to the people most. The social democrat in London, Gordon Brown, also proposes the same thing. And we now need an active SME policy – an active policy for small and medium-sized enterprises – in this serious crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3772	When the day starts with reading in the VG that there is a ‘customs budget’ we are going to adopt today, there will be a strange start to the day. The government suddenly announced a crisis package yesterday, the day before this debate. Until now, it has been said that the budget is well adapted to the situation and dialogue with the opposition has been clearly rejected. In the case of higher education and research, over a few weeks, the government has gone from giving the impression of not even knowing that the wage growth has run from the government's cost adjustment to finding 160 million. kr today. It all smells like a government without direction and control, and it's terrified of a real debate around the budget in Stortinget. How much of the financial crisis are real problems, and how much is psychology, I don't know. But what I'm reading, and what I'm seeing, is that ordinary Northmen experience their values being decimated. The house market is falling, jobs are insecure, the interest rate market is fluctuating, and loans are difficult to obtain. Uncertainty is great. As individuals, we react by reducing our consumption and saving more. Purchases are delayed, decisions are not made now, and you are waiting. It probably reinforces the crisis, but is the rational reaction pattern for each of us. Should it be different, the state actually has to correct. In this picture it will be quite special to read that the Minister of Finance encourages us to shop so it cheats, as she did in VG on Saturday, November 22. The husband of a demonstration that you don't understand the dynamics and content of the crisis, we have to look for a long time. Asking each Northman through his own payroll account to compensate for the financial crisis is strong. At least she could have followed the Right proposal to raise the bottom line and the top tax entry. It could have been a contribution to the individual. I have noticed that many red-green debaters are trying to blame the market. A market is only an aid to you and I being able to make our own choices. A ‘free’ market requires regulation; there is actually no market form that requires so much regulation in terms of information, competition and other assumptions. Today's crisis is an example of how unregulated parts of the market may be when parts of the market are over-regulated, while other parts are under-regulated or not regulated at all. When the products become so complicated that no one understands them, but buys them out of greed, as the Prime Minister said, it goes terribly wrong. But it is also good to remember that some Norwegian municipalities were the first to fall for greed. That illustrates the challenge. This is not the fault of the market, it is just as much the neglect of politics. The market is a good servant, but a miserable master. The market is effective, and it must not be destroyed, but it is a total misunderstanding to believe that it should not be regulated.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3783	I want to spend my minutes on Homeland Protection and its role. And not least: the defense should be given more money. This is where the Home Guard should get its share. The Minister of Defense has just left the Chamber. It was a bit of a shame, but I get to send what I should say, in writing to her. It's not many years since Homeland Security consisted of 83,000 men and 18 districts. Then it was reduced to 50,000 men, and now to 45,000. They're the ones who want Homeland to go further down, and the number 30,000 is mentioned. Then, in my opinion, it is equally likely to be completely destroyed and placed under the Army. The number of districts has also gradually decreased and is soon in half of the original 18 districts. The Progress Party wants a greater upgrade of the Home Guard and more soldiers. The Progress Party sees the importance of a large enough home protection to ensure belonging and awareness of local conditions around the country. This means that more money must and should be allocated, among other things. to the training and practice of all to the extent necessary, not only by command and some specialists. Perhaps this can also help in the financial crisis. I think so. The Progress Party is committed to a more central role in the field of social security and crisis relief in recent years. The Progress Party sees this as a result of a broader and more complex threat picture. Home security currently has a territorial responsibility and should be able to reinforce other military presence in vulnerable areas. Furthermore, they shall carry out other specific tasks and may, on request, also provide assistance to civil authorities. They shall have a rapid and persevering capacity to protect key infrastructure, support national crisis management, strengthen military presence in the country as needed and support civil society based on the modernised overall defence concept. This involves cooperation with local authorities such as: police, state officials, municipalities and agencies within the framework of the overall defence. A home protection that knows the neighbourhoods and local hedged items will play an important role in crisis management and social security. Home protection shall continue to be mobilised with short response time, well trained and equipped. The Progress Party will stress here the crucial importance of maintaining a satisfactory level of training and exercise in the Home Protection Departments. For this, the Home Office and the Defense need more money. The Progress Party wants to increase the capacity of Homeland Protection to interact with other defence sectors and to strengthen the applicability of Homeland Security. This will further develop Home Security into an even more relevant and effective tool for national sovereignty, crisis management and support to civil society. The Progress Party welcomes the extension of the Voluntary Home Guard Scheme to support the participation of defence sectors in foreign operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3800	I want to start my post by congratulating the Government on having fulfilled a call. The red-green went to elections with promise to reduce the difference between poor and rich, and now the main index of Oslo Børs is lower than he did when the Stoltenberg government joined, so the difference between poor and rich has actually become smaller. Many representatives from the government party today have claimed that the financial crisis we are currently facing is based on the free market. But none of them have said why it's the free market's fault. It's not very surprising, because they couldn't have gotten away from the truth anymore. The representative, Lundtägen, has, on several occasions today, named former Federal Reserve Chief Alan Greenspan his famous performance at the U.S. Congress earlier in the fall. We could then see the former governor of the central bank prossro to save his own legacy by trying to present it as if it were bad risk management from almost all the American banks that were guilty of the crisis, not his faulty monetary policy. The last time of Greenspan's period as governor was marked by manipulatively low interest rates. This leads, as you know, to some disadvantages. One of them is bubbles in the economy. The combination of artificially low interest rates and the adjustments in The Community Reinvestment Act, which came in the late 1990s, led to the possibility of raising loans and buying housing even for people without income. This led to many new buyers entering the housing market, and prices rose sharply. But as interest rates gradually increased from the artificially low levels, the bubbles exploded. The Americans, who had long been watered down to finance private consumption by increasing the mortgage on the dwelling, were now forced to tighten up the lifeline, and the consumption went down. The consequences of the American left-wing genius and the central bank's misguided market manipulation are now seen, with financial crisis, bankruptcy and recession. More public regulation is not the solution to our problems. On the contrary, they are the cause of problems. But now the crisis has already come, and now it must take action. In the future, we will see that we will have more available capacity in the construction sector, but there is no reason why the workers will have to go on unemployment insurance for it. NRK Sogn and Fjordane report today that the race season is now under way, and that many of them are disconnected. Racial protection needs are enormous, and the National Racial Protection Group has claimed that there is a need for a billion in promises in the year to this end. The government is far from reaching this goal. The Progress Party proposes in its budget to double the race protection rights. Here, we can both use available capacity in the construction industry and save more lives by racially safe postponement of road sections. The only measure of increased employment that the Government appears to be part of this state budget is the huge increase in the UDI's licenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3811	Even a few years ago, the first ones began to warn that a financial crisis in the United States was on its way. Based on the bubble in the housing market, such a crisis was inevitable. American subprime loans were taken up on a large scale, even negative equity. This made the fall in the United States extra hard. The banking crisis in Norway at the end of the 1980s had its origins in a similar situation. Increased consumption, excessive investment, increased share prices and price increases put high pressure on the economy. Many used borrowed money on speculative investments and consumption. We had a debt and banking crisis with record unemployment, and it was not until the early 1990s that Norway began to rise again. The crisis showed the importance of having equity and real collateral for loans and loans. Because of this situation, what we are facing in Norway is less serious than it could have been. But no country escapes an international crisis in a globalised economy. Norway is therefore also facing tough times. This country is well equipped to meet it because we have a better regulated banking and financial market. But we also have to do ours. The government has provided an expansive budget that meets the rule of action. Capital is now injected into the banking sector to strengthen the export industry. In the short term, the decline is thus reduced by deliberate structural intervention, including contributions to keep our financial markets relatively liquid. The banks are strengthened, GIEK and Innovation Norway are strengthened, the Municipal Bank is strengthened and Export finance is strengthened. This is the right and important grip. Now the measures have to work, so that we get the necessary correction through a decline in interest rates. The scale of the crisis has made an understanding of the need for an active approach worldwide. It is encouraging to see that the international community through the G20 is now reacting as quickly as they did in Washington. Several countries, particularly the United States, China and the United Kingdom, have presented comprehensive emergency packages over the past few weeks. Well, it's just important to have a long-term grip. They're just as important as the short-term ones. This is a golden opportunity to overtake the entire international regulatory financial system. We need safe financial institutions through laws and regulations that restrict the possibility of bubbles in the economy. A crucial element is a new WTO agreement with better power conditions, where the world plays a more active role. Then we need to have a serious conversation about the international financial structure. The ‘Laissez faire’ ideology that has been ruled by falls. In my opinion, a new financial structure should also include pricing requirements for carbon intensity. If we get such a new agreement, a decline in the future will not be as serious as the one we see now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3820	The opposition has raised major questions about the reality orientation of the submitted state budget. Today, VG has gone even further and called the budget a customs budget because central premises in the budget line have been greatly boosted by the financial crisis. Also with regard to the review of the police situation, there is reason to ask questions about the Government's reality orientation. After all, when you hear the Minister of Justice and representatives of the government parties, you can be led to believe that most things are on the loose for the police. But the truth is rather the opposite. The backbone of the state of law has become so vulnerable that it is no longer a matter of course that the police can move out in criminal acts, and many experience increased insecurity. It is also worrying when local police report that prevention is still a balancing item when budgets and tasks do not go into bulk. What a price society will have to pay for such a development, nobody knows today. A well-known saying is, why do thieves? Right now, fears are that it will be the result of not being able to provide the police with the resources to fight both the serious, organised crime and the crime that affects people most. For the Right, it is also obvious that the police must have time to provide good old-fashioned service to the public. The financial crisis is setting new, negative tracks every day here, too. More and more individuals and businesses are getting to feel the crisis on their bodies and are experiencing an increasingly pressing economic situation. This increases the risk of the legal limit being challenged. In this particular situation, it is so important that the police have the ability to enforce the law. The entire social morality is challenged if economic crime is not persecuted. It should worry the government that the police only have the capacity to take a fraction of the cases of financial crime, because it affects the community when funds are avoided by taxation and other welfare schemes are exploited at the most. The policy crisis was a fact long before the financial crisis, but it appears to be a pattern in crisis management. In both cases, the government has come incomprehensible behind, even though one should know enough to act and to take action early. In its alternative budget, the Right has pointed to a number of measures that can help address the policy area – measures that could quickly have an impact. Then it is remarkable to experience a Minister of Justice shadowing the track, while people around Norway experience a police officer who is still short because the budgets are too tight. Today’s government left little honor in police circles – and rightly so. The right has given the police high priority throughout the big age to provide security where you live. That's a priority Right will hold on to even in the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3839	Just to keep going in police metaphors, where the last speaker escaped: let's say that someone, without asking you, had emptied your living room for everything that was there. Then they came afterwards, without asking you, and put back a third party and told me it was a bet. What am I talking about? I speak in clear, popular language about the government's treatment of universities and colleges. This is a very strange procedure. Of course, it is nice to receive 160 million in connection with Thanksgiving. NOK, but there are still 240-260 million missing. kr. And if there's so much missing for those who're going to run universities and colleges, there'll be either job vacancies or pressure on the education services. This situation already existed at the old cutting. When the rest section is repeated again – because it still exists – there is no change in the situation. The unusually low-level and sober leader of the University and Higher Education Council, Jarle Aarbakke, says this today: It's nice to have money – the fight for the rest continues. He doesn't wrap it up in any way. After hearing the council today, one should almost think that this was just a purely technical problem, and that it was basically not a compensation, it was a bet. The money that would cover the salary and the pension, they got fixed up on their own. But how in the world is a sector supposed to take care of an overstated state that enters into a pay settlement? Universities and colleges cannot override the pay policy they get — and they get the consequences of it in captivity. The final result – when we are going to act as politicians and not as accountants – is that there is a lack of money. Then you can describe what you want, but there is a lack of money to make sure that it is properly invested – with education and with research. One of the most dangerous things to do by being so short-sighted is to undermine the long-termity of institutions that are crucial as part of a counter-cyclical policy, because basic research, university investment and higher education, are crucial for everything that has to do with industrial development, and to bet on industrial development is closely linked. At the end of this debate I chose to take the floor because I am one of those who are happy when a government has to make 160 million. NOK – one week after the Council of State told the sector that there was no money to be given. Then I understand that something has happened that is OK. I'm going to translate this into clear, political language: then I realize that it's useful to exert a pressure, and I understand that it's useful to cause SV so much pain that it can trigger money on the inside. I promise to maintain that pressure until the rest of the money comes. For universities and colleges, driving is not properly done until the rest of the rest of the rest is zeroed out. I promise that the Left will continue in an expedient and patient way. Just as we did with the previous rest cutting that was removed, we're going to keep this rest cutting going. Why should we do that? Well, because Norwegian research and those who work there -- researchers, teachers and students -- deserve to do it, and it's building the country in a real way. It's short-sighted not to do that. We promise that we will be on, and then there may be more good results after such pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3856	It seems that parts of the opposition have not come to realize that today we are going to adopt a budget that increases efforts in very many important areas – kindergartens, railways, schools and pensions. In many other areas, too, the activity of the Norwegian economy is increasing and will contribute to the current situation, where unemployment is increasing. It seems like you forgot what you said a few weeks ago, when you were worried that the budget that was presented was too expansive and too ambitious. Now you've forgotten. Some of the things that are very positive in this budget relative to distribution are the tax penalties that give tax relief to ordinary people. Those who have small assets and who inherit a little bit now receive tax relief. After all, it is very clear from the debate that both the Right and the Advance Party feel that it is completely uninteresting that ordinary people receive great tax relief in these areas. They're just worried about the richest ones who won't be allowed to pay nothing. So the minimum pensions have been raised. Next year, we've added NOK 2.1 billion. It's a rise - now we've almost reached 2 G, which we're going to reach next year. The housing support is rising by NOK 1 billion, and we have a drug escalation plan that is very important, but which could have been increased by sea. Now it's important that the interest rate should go down. Unemployment must be kept low. We need a better distribution of goods and burdens, and we need measures that can reduce harmful climate emissions. Then it's important – when we're going to start discussing what we're going to add to this package – that we do important tasks, but also that the device is such that we don't risk the interest flying up again. It's now job number. 1st@item: inlistbox There are then many areas where action can be taken. For example, upgrading schools and nursing homes has been mentioned. I would like to mention an important area: universal design and accessibility. There are many areas of society where simple action and greater action can be taken. It will provide jobs. It'll make society much better. Noise treatment and child protection are areas where we know that greater efforts are needed in particular in the first-line service in municipalities. It will provide jobs, and it will not least be a very important investment in the long term, so that more people get a better life. In addition, there are rail and energy-saving projects that would solve environmental tasks while providing many jobs. So it's going to be exciting to be involved in the work on the packages that are now to be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3869	The financial crisis has not only taken place in countries by country. It has also provided the basis for a new international thinking on how to create a more sensible framework for and better control of the financial industry in the future. For the past few weeks, I have been able to follow meetings of the Nordic Council, of the Joint Parliamentary Committee in the EEA and of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee. The financial crisis has been the subject of debates. Everyone has had the same message in their speeches: better regulation is needed. There is a need for international regulatory coordination. Stronger control mechanisms are needed, including with credit rating agencies, and there is a need for more transparency in that industry. This has been the review melody, regardless of the political position of the speakers. It gives hope that out of this crisis there will be stronger international cooperation and better regulation. It will be an important dam against new, similar crises. I have only heard one exception to this, and it was the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, who in the Nordic Council was more concerned that she, as the ‘socialists’, was going to abuse this financial crisis to undermine globalisation and the market place in the mixed economic model. The Progress Party is also rather lonely in its view of what is really the cause of the financial crisis, that there should be too much political governance and not too bad and too little policy. The opposition has complained in this debate that the government parties have not seen it right to make changes to the budget in the light of developments in the economy since the budget was presented. Everyone is pleased with what the Government has done and has had a unanimous uproar about in Stortinget, which has had immediate effect. There are many measures that will stimulate the economy, in the budget that we are now adopting. It has been announced that more measures can be taken already in winter, and the advantage of waiting is that the new measures can be better targeted, because we want to know more about where the most serious bottlenecks are. The opposition considers that they have put in place several measures to address the crisis in their draft budgets. I assume that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party – and the Advance Party for that matter – do not believe that those budgets, if adopted, would not have created the need for further action, perhaps as early as February. So a brief remark to the representative Ola Borten Moe, who thought we could be happy that we were not involved in euro cooperation. The Norwegian krona has not exactly stood up so brilliantly. It's sunk at 20 pst. against the euro and 40 pst. against the dollar. Without Eurocooperation, we would now be at risk of a chain of devaluations, where countries tried to throw the burden on each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3886	35 speakers from the government parties have today been on this pulpit with the same rhetorical message, that this budget is suitable for meeting the times of crisis we are now facing. From the Prime Minister to the last speaker, it has been claimed that the budget represents a greater commitment to road construction and is one of the main measures of the Government to meet the crisis. But it's not like that. Although the increase in appropriations may tempt red-green politicians to boast about big stakes, this does not last, simply because the increase in costs is much larger than the increase in appropriations. It also shows the number of kilometres of built-up road, but also does not extend the means of maintenance. This year it will be, for example. asphalted 400 kilometres of road less than last year. The right has discovered this, and we are therefore proposing today to strengthen investment in roads by nearly NOK 1 billion. In addition, the return from our maintenance fund would give an additional NOK 1 billion for the maintenance tasks. To sum up, the investment in the budget is only 45 pst. State-financed. 55 pst. is funded by others. The Ministry’s own figures show that after the first four-year period in NTP, the lag in road investment is a total of 623 million. kr. We've heard all day from red-green politicians that this government has fulfilled the NTP after four years. I have a letter from the Department in front of me, and here it says that there are 29 projects with lower government appropriations in the period 2006-2009 than in the State Road Service Action Programme for this period – a total of NOK 2.3 billion. Thus, with reference to the department's own figures, obtained from the Public Road Service Programme, this can be documented. When the rhetoric from a total position is so total in spite of reality, it might be time to take this over and realize that historical numbers are not suitable to describe reality when costs have increased as much as they actually have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3897	There is a lot of good and much wrong in this debate, and I'm going to try to contribute to more of the first, because it's not necessary to make rhetorical peaks of mistrust and criticism because of the state budget we have for handling now. I want to start from the transport area, for which this government has made a great effort. The much-reported NTP frameworks, we're the first government to have met. When we go to the 2009 budget to over-comply with the national transport plan, it shows a clear direction forward. It shows that NTP no longer needs to be an unrealistic wish list, which creates great expectations and associated despair, but a real political governance tool for the transport policy we want to pursue. Racism is one of the many entries that have received a solid increase in next year's budget. The problems created by race and racial danger have been thoroughly demonstrated in the fall, through the events we have seen in different parts of the country, where the storm on the Dwelling Beach was probably the worst. The centre party has clear ambitions to put in place a race-security billion in the later years’ budget, because it will help to implement important race-security projects, which in turn will provide better access and security for those who travel along these roads. We are in a special situation, with unrest in the financial market and, not least, a steep rise in unemployment. I understand very well those who are impatient to put in place the necessary emergency packages, but at the same time I am sure that this government will follow closely the situation and developments, to put in place measures when they are needed and where they are needed. Transport is one of the most current areas in which you want to focus on increasing your employment. In addition to securing jobs, a greater commitment here will be crucial to ensuring a more competitive business environment in the future. The crisis package that the Minister of Finance has announced in the New Year will necessarily go a long way towards just moving.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3912	Today has shown an opposition that is in principle and mentally at the kindergarten stage. Want, want, say the kids. When they finally get something, they say, "Will not, won't." I will therefore try a little pedagogical twist. At the top of the welfare community corner tooth lived four opposition parties. All of them wanted to build the house in the corner teeth bigger. They drilled and hammered in the mouth of Jens, but whatever they did, the corner teeth of Jens were not large enough. Those who lived in Jens' teeth couldn't agree on the room distribution in their teeth, but they agreed to yell as high as they could: we want bigger teeth, Jens, we want bigger teeth. Jens couldn't help. He gave them more tools and nutrition, but it just increased the pain and demands. One day it was so bad that he asked Mother Kristin for help. You must close the holes, Jens, said Kristin. Together, they went to the governor, who shut down the corner teeth and left the opposition in the middle of nowhere. That's how well-being became whole again.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3920	I allow myself to point out that the Norwegian school has hardly missed any major teacher by the fact that the representative Klungland chose another profession. On 7 October this year, the Minister of Finance, when she presented the financial statements to the Stortinget, said: ‘In a troubled financial world with conditions beyond our control, we are still under pressure in Norway.’ Those were catchy words. Even more striking was the conclusion of the financial speech, where the Minister of Finance said: «We take care of the values and we prepare Norway for the future. That's what I'm inviting the Storting to join." No one has heard anything since. On the other hand, the Government has demonstrated in time that it considers the Stortinget to be completely redundant in the Norwegian People's Government. The government has continuously modified and amended its own proposals, preferably through press conferences on Sunday afternoons, following the presentation of the draft state budget in October. The day before the Stortingen financial debate, the Minister of Finance announced that the government’s financial debate will continue, and the result will be known in two months’ time. This really means that the state budget we are dealing with today is the first virtual government budget in Norway. It should have been dealt with in MiniTinget and not in Stortinget, because it's in MiniTinget you have set up virtual debates. I have to say, for the sake of the Norwegian People's Government, I hope that we will not experience many more majority governments of the kind that systematically demonstrate that they consider the Storting to be superfluous, because it knows best for itself. When this government decides on the biggest investment in history after long internal towings, the Stortinget gets to know it through a press release. So far, it's the only thing the Storting knows about the matter. The Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy have clear provisions on time limits and rules for the budgetary procedure of the Grand Duchy. I believe that the government has managed the course this autumn, as being on the edge of both the Constitutional Law and the Rules of Procedure on the obligation of the Grand Duchy to take decisions on the state budget. The state budget we are adopting today is at best a work hypothesis, not a budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3943	What made me take the floor was the post from the Right Aspacer instead. She talked about a police crisis and that the government doesn't recognize that there's a crisis there. We say that it is very difficult in the police during the day. The main reason is that we lack police-trained personnel. Aspaker knows well that I and others from the government parties have acknowledged that we will take our share of that responsibility, because the bet for the first five years of the 2000s was too low. But also the Right must, of course, bear a great deal of that responsibility. Then she criticizes the government's investment in Ecocrim, which is a bet we've doubled. Ecocrim now has twice as much capacity as when we took over after, among other things. Right on previous shift. Then she also says that the prevention work now suffers from this government. So it is this government that has been in charge when the nation has established 260 police councils around Norway – from zero under the previous government. In addition, we are working hard to develop measurement criteria in order to actually prioritize the work. And then Aspacer ends by saying that there's a pattern in how the government doesn't deal with crises. When, after we took over from Bondevik II, we train more policemen at the Police College, it's suddenly not enough for the Right. When we get a double on Ekokrim, all of a sudden it's not enough for the Right. And when we're betting on setting up police councils, of which no one was set up in the last period, neither is that bet good enough for the Right. There is no pattern in how the Government deals with crises, but there is a clear pattern in how the Right criticises the Government for how it handles crises. The truth is that for a few months left, the Right fiscal spokesman, Sanner, demanded a very tight budget. Then came the budget. Then we've got crisis packages of hundreds of billion dollars. So once again, the Right Medicine is that what the Government is doing is not enough, even though it's far more than they would have expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3956	Perhaps the representative of Breen should reflect on what was said by the police chief in Bergen during the debate on the police situation as it is at the moment, where he states that when there are fewer employees this year to solve the problems in Bergen than it was last year, it is due to the financial framework of the police. They're the ones out there who have this pressure on themselves. So they have fewer employees than last year, and that's because of the financial framework. It's not because of actions – they came after this – it's not because of anything else. That's because of the financial framework we said was too small last year, and that's why there's fewer employees at the Bergen Police Chamber this year than last year. The Labour Party should take over in the judicial debate. When I took the word, it was really for something else. It was to take up an obvious misunderstanding from earlier today. Since it has repeated itself in several articles during the evening, I thought I would say so in another way. Since the Minister of Finance is here, while the Prime Minister has gone, I hope she can bring the following: Although it destroys a rhetorical point for the Government, they must start listening to what other parties actually say. It is certainly not at any time that we have criticised this budget for being too expansive. We warned against an excessive budget before the budget came – yes – but when the budget came, we found that as the economic situation is, no one knows where the chalk line for oil money is. There's too many things moving in the Norwegian economy to be 100 pst. I'm sure of it. And even though it was different from what anyone thought, including the Minister of Finance, when she was a little scornful on the radio -- it's possible to hear it on the payroll -- in the morning said that the Right is definitely going to say that, it's actually so that we think that economic policy should be run in different portions when the economy changes. That's why we thought last year that we spent too much money. But this year we don't know, and I don't think the government at the moment knows if it fits the oil money dosage that's now. That's why you have to stop walking around and say that the Right said that this was an expansive budget, and now they've changed it. The government also says – it's just to go into the figures in the budget and see – that this budget is no more expansive than the budget we have for the current year. You can't talk away from that. It is stated in the documents sent by the Minister of Finance to Stortinget that it was 0.7 pst. growth rate in years, which is 0.7 pst. for next year. This means that the budget does not fit the economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3965	I think I owe the representative Dørum a deepening of my post from earlier today. It works on the representative Dørum and some others as if the government at all does not care about the universities and colleges and only applies them cut after cut. Of course it's not like that. What is the situation for the universities and universities today has nothing to do with cutting basic appropriations. The basic appropriations have been reduced by this government as from the revised national budget this year, and they have been proposed to be carried forward in full in the financial year 2009. The sector has thus been strengthened and further strengthened in the context of the 2008 budget, through the joyful 160 million. which has been entered in that budget within a short period of time now. So there's no new cut on it. Then it is that universities and colleges have their own budgetary responsibilities – which are in good and bad days. They have a responsibility when times are bad, and they have a responsibility when times are good. Changes in wage and price assumptions and in pension contributions are therefore initially within their own sphere of competence, each institution separately. That's also how it gets informed about it. Then we have the situation that both Dørum and I are concerned about, namely that the sum of a good government salary settlement and at the same time the warning of increased pension contributions in 2009 became an unexpected large cost increase both in 2008 and 2009. I have had and have very good contact with the University and Higher Education Council. We have a common understanding of the challenges that are initially the institutions' own. I am very pleased that the Government has managed to strengthen the institutions' budgets for 2008. Of course, as self-employed budgetary institutions, they are fully entitled to transfer funds until 2009. That doesn't mean I'm not going to fight for them to have a good situation in 2009 as well. In the case of pension contributions, for three years before this, it has been considerably lower than the framework set up. And in terms of wage and price growth, it is a challenge to which this type of net budgeted activity is exposed, namely that it is not corrected in a retrospective manner on the actual outcome of wage settlement. This will be looked at by the Government, and I will be part of that discussion towards the revised national budget. I can trust both the representative of Dørum and others that I personally want the institutions to remain net-budgeted, that they should remain responsible for freedom. It's still going to be an important part of their academic freedom, so they get to do their job properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3976	Never have I experienced so many knowledgeless interventions and attacks on the market economy and explanations of the financial crisis. In reality, it's a hidden attack on the United States. I actually think it's time for someone to get up and talk positively about the United States. That's what I'm going to do. I wonder why you don't like the United States. What's wrong with the United States? I think you're fascinated by the United States. Also those who stand in this room and say they don't like the United States, go on vacation, and inside they're fascinated by the United States. They say they like Americans -- well, Americans like them, but there's something about the American system. And then they can't demand George Bush--huff a me, George Bush! But they were still a little happy in Clinton – Clinton they were happy in. It's a little special -- when it's such a tribute to the welfare state, maybe we should sit down and think a little through and reflect, with all the wealth we have, about what it is with this welfare state. What's so much to brag about? Why do we think up here that we're so much wiser and gooder than Americans most? We have 700,000 who live from social security transfers in this country. Had it been in the United States, there would have been 56 million people. 700000 people make up 30 pst. of the population aged between 18 and 67 in Norway. Can you imagine that the United States would have been so innovative and had such a flexible labour market if they had the so-called welfare state that we hide behind here, we, the security-seeking Northmen, who are sitting here hoping that the state will help us, and who, as soon as we move out of our families, wants the state to come and take over? No, that's why the United States is so successful. Do we have so much to boast about health, education and knowledge levels, and about integration? Do we have so much to brag about up here in relation to the Americans? Actually, I don't think so. What about our justice policy, or our defence capacity? Do we have so much to boast that we can sit on our high horse and criticize the Americans? The market economy, for which the Americans are a guarantor, has brought hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. Had it not been for the Americans to be a guarantor of the market economy, we would not have been able to reap the fruits of the market economy either. The economy that many here in this Chamber indirectly boast is the planned economy, which has led without exception to the very opposite of the market economy, namely the lack of political freedom and the lack of growth, prosperity and well-being. I think we in this room are going to be a little bit less high and a little bit more sober in the description of this “fantastic” society, we, who have found all that oil and gas out in the North Sea, we should rather look at what the Americans are actually doing. We admire the Americans. Then we should stop standing here on the platform and criticise their governance system – and indirectly criticise American society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e3989	It might have been tempting to use my three minutes to comment on the previous speaker and his tribute to the market economy in the United States, but I'm going to let it lie and concentrate on what I think is very important to get in place, namely a guarantee to Kommune-Norway that they will be compensated for a failure in tax revenue, which we don't know how big it is, but as we know it will be. The Christian People's Party is very concerned with the local economy. We are concerned that it should be predictable, unfortunately, as many people have been in today, that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the municipalities' tax revenues until next year. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government must give guarantees to the municipal sector that a tax failure beyond 2009 will be compensated. The great uncertainty that prevails leads to many municipalities planning to tighten up their business. The country needs increased public activity, not reduced. Municipalities are now presenting their budgets. A study The municipal report has done, shows that half of the councillors propose cut-offs in positions in municipalities next year. We don't know for sure how much the tax revenue is going to fail, but we know it's coming. This will lead to cuts in the number of teachers in school and health professionals in the care sector. As I said, the Christian People's Party believes that regardless of the size of the failure, it has to be for the Government to provide a guarantee and create security outside the Commune-Norway. In his post in the hall today, State Council Kleppa said that the government is following the situation. That's good. She also said that there will be more action in the new year. It is also good, but the Council of State knows that municipalities cannot postpone their budgetary procedure until after the new year. On my reply, or my question, to the Council of State in the debate tonight on such a guarantee to the municipalities, the Council of State replied, among others. that she was surprised by statements that the tax failure could amount to NOK 3 billion. She further replied that the municipalities must rely on the Government's estimate of revenue for the next year. I wish the Council of State had clearly said that the failure in tax revenue in some form would be compensated, regardless of whether it would be 1 or 4 billion kroner. It's not too late, but it's urgent. I hope the Minister of Local Affairs will get on the road and create the security needed when planning schools, kindergartens, elderly care, cultural services and all the important things that local authorities spend the money on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4004	I was really a little uncertain about whether I should take the floor in this debate, but do so after hearing the Minister for Transport, the party leader of the Senter Party, talk warmly about local economy and commitment to culture. I first want to go into the local economy, because it is fantastic, according to the Minister's posts earlier here today. It is obviously so good that there are closures a lot of schools and care services all over the country. I therefore believe that the majority parties here in this Chamber and the government apparatus have a different reality than you have in real life around the whole country, where municipal politicians bales with poor municipal economy and municipal budgets that you don't get to jump, despite all the tributes that we have heard here today – and so far throughout this year – about how wonderfully this government has invested in the community economy. I believe that most people who are running and playing ball with municipal budgets now do not experience it the same way that some people do in this room. It is also nice when you listen to the representative Jenny Klinge, who boasts this government in the clouds – boasts how wonderfully good the government has been to follow up the national transport plan and all the challenges you have there. Then I think it's a little interesting to look at what you've done in 2008, and what you've been going to do in the field of transport in 2009 that really matters – it's because to this year there are far more people killed in traffic than it was last year. This government has granted funds for 51 km of new motorway. I think everyone in this room knows how much the need for a new motorway is. The government has allocated funds to 10 km in the middle of 2008, and in 2009 it is allocated to 30 km in the middle. Funding should be granted for 69 km of new four-field motorway. It is heaven wide from the need that is there. We know that the need is 520 km with midpoints. Then you would probably reduce the number of injuries and kill in traffic by 80 to 100 every year at a cost of 500 billion kroner. And then 30 miles with the middle parts is just for crumbs. In addition, the fulfilment of the national transport plan boasts unhesitatingly. You might meet it in terms of heads and ears, but I actually think – at least in terms of roads that are in the national transport plan, and as you have said to build – that what matters is that the roads are realized and built as they should. And then when you get a list from the Ministry of Transport of 29 projects worth more than DKK 2.3 billion that are not met in the National Transport Plan 2006-2009 and the National Road Service Action Programme, you have an unfulfilled national transport plan, which some are trying to produce as from this platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4017	I will take the floor on the basis of the statement by the representative of Inge Wohnning. I do not intend to engage in polemics with Inge Wohnning. I don't think anything comes out of it, but I feel the need to give feedback on a couple of relatively strong claims that the government doesn't show respect for the Storting, and that you don't provide a proper budget. Once again, we have a majority government in Norway. It's been a long time since we've had it. It means that the form of work is going to be something different than if you had a minority government. It is obvious that there will be smaller negotiations in the Grand Duchy when one negotiates in a government with a majority. But the claim that you don't respect the Storting, that you don't involve the Storting, I disagree very much. We know that in several major cases a majority is actually sought beyond what is necessary, for example. in relation to climate settlement, retirement and purpose paragraph. I also know that, in many respects, parliamentary leaders are informed in advance of important decisions. For my part, I can say that I am constantly trying to have a good dialogue with the opposition in Stortinget, accept tips from them and bring it on. To claim that the government shows arrogance, and that you don't care about the Storting, is something I totally disagree with. It is now that you have some demanding things that it is not easy to involve others in. I think the representative also knows that. When you're dealing with stock exchange-sensitive things, you can hardly involve so many people because you're afraid that something might come out, and that there may be an accident at work. We have had a number of examples of this in recent times through the financial crisis. As far as the purchase of the aircraft was concerned, the plan was that you should initially buy American aircraft. But this government decided to have proper tenders. You had three providers. You had real processes on it, and a lot of people were involved. Finally, you were left with two, and when you were going to make the election, it was so sensitive to the stock exchange that you had to do it that way. So to the budget: we have put forward a budget that is adapted to the demanding situation that is now, by having a low economy. Already when you worked with the budget in ours, you saw these clouds and took care of it. And when the budget work was completed in August to September, a budget was set up to meet these challenges. Then it turns out that the crisis in the world economy is getting much stronger than what you thought. Then it must be good to say that you need to strengthen further when you have time to work on it and look at what kind of instruments are right to put in. I think the opposition would have reacted even more strongly if a package of measures had been announced tomorrow and not announced this day before the financial debate. I think the finance minister did quite right by notifying the day before, so that you know what comes when you get to work more on these demanding matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4039	Universities and higher education institutions have been ‘reinforced and further strengthened’, says Tora Aasland State Council. It is, in fact, a rather strange claim from a government that, in its government statement, states that the budgets and appropriations of universities and higher education institutions will increase, but that leaves behind a break so great that universities and colleges continue to suffer the consequences. There is no doubt that the university and higher education sectors are still struggling with the consequences of the 2007 rest cut. Many months ago it was announced that the money had returned to the budget for 2009, the Hedmark University would have to cut 40 posts. Practice for dental students at the Odontological Faculty of the University of Oslo must be cut. The legal faculty cuts the student admission by 200. It cuts in exam conduction, and it cuts the students' teaching time by 71 pst. And it's despite the fact that the government has been so mild and kind in its gifts, according to the sea, that it has returned to the sector it took in its budget for 2007. I am greatly provoked by a government that cannot stand by the cuts it has made. It is quite honest from the Government to believe that universities and colleges must cope with the appropriations they now receive, but it is not an honest thing to try to camouflage the large and dramatic cuts that universities and colleges in Norway have made. Quality reform is no longer fully funded. And I ask, what is the government expecting the opposition to do — not criticise the fact that today universities and colleges have far less to go with than they should have had under the conditions of the quality reform, and that they must cut so dramatically in study and research provision that it goes beyond the quality? One of the reasons the sector is still struggling with the cut from 2007 is that the then State Council Djupedal promised that the money would come back in the budget for 2008. It didn't happen. Many universities and colleges were allowed to cut budgets for 2007 and thus hoped that the Government would keep its promise to the sector to return the money back in 2008. Only in the revised budget for 2008 came half of the money back. I have to say that it's on the frontier of the freckle of a government first to cut the appropriations for colleges and universities by 275 million. kr, then admit that it was enough a loss, and then put the money back a little after – and afterwards expect praise from the sector and praise from the opposition because it is withdrawing the money that the sail has taken! There is no investment in universities and colleges – it is a gradual decline, and it is a hollowing out of the core of the Quality Reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4052	The President believes to remember that the word ‘freak’ appears on a list of words that should not be used from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4056	I said it was on the frontier of frekt, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4061	I have to say that I am impressed by what SV has learned over three years in government. Who would have believed three to four years ago that we were going to get a finance minister from SV who beg Norwegian consumers to do the Christmas trade as far as possible? Who would have thought that we should have experienced a parliamentary head of SV who tells Stortinget that the main concern of government SV is the consideration of the stock exchange? Then you've really learned a lot. Exchange-sensitive information – I did not fully understand what it was about. If I understood correctly, there would be a reason why the government found no reason to involve Stortinget in advance before it went out with the press release on the biggest investment in history. That's what my criticism is, that this government is not related to the Storting – it's related to a small selection of the government party's big groups and thinks it's the Stortinget. That is why my point, which I do not think the SV parliamentary leader fully understood, was that, in today's situation, the Norwegian People's Government would have been very well served by the fact that we had had a 'normal' government situation, that is. a minority government that had had to cooperate in Stortinget, which had to invite to a national effort to find the right solution to the financial crisis that Norway is also going to be shaken by. I don't think it's for the benefit of the Norwegian People's Government that instead we're sitting with a synthetic majority government where most of the energy is going to agree, at the chamber, in the government quarter and then inform the Storting through the press about what has been agreed on. I don't think the Norwegian People's Government will survive very many times with a government that negates the Storting as systematically as this government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4072	I will be careful to interfere in debates between parliamentary leaders and other prominent members of the Storting on the relationship between big business and government. But let me just say that in my time in Stortinget, it was not that minority governments put matters forward without having concluded first. It was not enough to have a majority behind the conclusions that were reached, but it was not a free float, an open seminar and three parties that put forward different positions and invited the rest of the Stortinge to join in and discuss on that basis. The problem was that you didn't have a majority for what you had discussed up to. I didn't tell people to go shopping, so it sucks. I don't just have one hen to pick with the VG, I have a whole henyard. But I've said that people should behave normally. There are too many of those who have very common prospects, who are also sitting on the fence and canceling normal activity, for example. Completely necessary refurbishment of cabin or other sensible things. It's not a trick, because it's strengthening the financial crisis. Otherwise, I'm not a big shopper. I regret that to the representative on the payroll. When it comes to the issue of sensitive stock exchange information, the problem was, for example: The fighter aircraft case is as follows: the process that our government had initiated to ensure that there was competition for fighter aircraft, entailed a separate fighter aircraft project and two external quality assurances. At the moment their conclusions were known, it was obvious that one candidate fell away because it was more expensive and did not meet national security needs. That information is very sensitive to the two companies, and it is quite obvious that you have a duty to follow some very simple rules of the game for this. My acquaintance has never protested that you should follow any rules of the Securities Trading Act. So to Erna Solberg – because I have the quotes from the Right on the day the budgets came. What was the review tone that day was that the government makes it harder for the Bank of Norway to lower interest rates. That was the total review tone. That's the same thing as saying that the budget is too expansive. And the Prime Minister has his word completely in place. Some other way, it's not possible to read it. So just two words in the end also about the expansiveness of the budget. When we presented the budget for 2008, the expansion rate was 0.3 p.m., and when we presented the budget for 2009, the expansion rate was 0.7 p.m. The reason why the 2008 budget looks more expansive in retrospect is that the 2007 budget became tighter than it was set up. But it's the way the chairman of the finance committee keeps his words. When comparing the budgets at the time they were presented, the budget for 2009 is the most expansive of our government. And that's right and fair and within the rule of action and everything. The rule of action means that when there is no capacity and signs of new unemployment, it makes sense to exceed the estimated rate of return of the Pension Fund, i.e. 4 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4085	Then I must be allowed to quote from a letter sent to me yesterday by the Minister of Finance. On a written question which I sent to the Minister of Finance just on the issue of expansion, if it was not correct that the 2008 budget in a high economic cycle was as expansive as the 2009 budget, which is presented at the beginning of a recession, the Minister of Finance answers: ‘As the figures now stand, it is estimated that budgetary policy provides about the same incentive to domestic demand in 2008 and 2009.’ It says in the fourth section, if the finance minister has problems finding it in the letter. So there can be no doubt that the budget for 2009 has the same expansiveness as the budget for 2008, as it stands today. Let me also stress that the Right has not accused the Government of having submitted an excessive budget. I had to correct the finance minister after the financial speech here in Stortinget, where she went on an autopilot and played as if the Right had claimed that the budget was too expansive. We didn't, because from this pulpit I made it clear that in the situation we're in now, no one should be obtuse about where the chalk line goes in relation to the use of oil money. This is why the Right has put itself on the same uses as the Government in its alternative budget, and we are also open to the need for stronger instruments beyond winter and spring if it turns out that the downturn is getting stronger. Let me also say that I am surprised that it is the Socialist Left Party that defends the arrogance of power that we are accustomed to on the part of the Labour Party, that it is the SV that defends the fact that the debates are being moved away from the open room, away from Parliament and into the closed rooms of the government building. It is quite alarming that yesterday we had to resort to NTB and the Nett newspaper in order to know that the budget for 2009 was almost approved, with a notice that it would be temporary until January/February, and where the Minister of Finance will come down and hold a press conference in the hiking hall in Stortinget and informs that a new package of measures will come in a seven-eight week period. It's not showing respect for the Storting. There, the Stortinget must be informed directly. It would have been natural for that information to come to Stortinget at an earlier time, and for dialogue to be had with the Stortinget Finance Committee on how to deal with this. But instead, we experience a power arrogance of the old working party plate, and I'm surprised that it's SV that defends it from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4099	The representative Erna Solberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4102	It strikes me that the Minister of Finance has not quite understood what psychology we are currently living under. This is because almost all jobs are insecure, at least outside the public sector. So when the finance minister says that everyone who thinks you have a decent job and that everything is okay, the truth is that there are a lot of people who don't know if their job is safe at the moment, who don't know if they can pay the bills that come – and therefore people don't spend money. Therefore, it had been so clever that we had agreed on some measures, and did not make this a show-up with dripping measures from the Government every two Sundays in the future. Now I hope we get into better practice on that. Another thing I think we need to think about, is that if we're going to get some of the tools to do this in the future, we need them faster than in January/February. Should the activities of municipalities be increased, e.g. in the field of construction, the effects will come almost one year after we may inform you that something will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4111	Councillor Kristin Halvorsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute. It'll be corrected. The Council of State has the floor for three minutes. This does not mean that the Council of State has to use the 3 minutes. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4119	Here it was a privilege I wasn't quite aware of, but it was good we got it right. First to the expansion of the 2008 budget and the 2009 budget. The letter sent to the representative Jan Tore Sanner yesterday is a long version of the short version I gave here on the pulpit just a short time ago. If we can agree that this is the right presentation, then we agree on an important factual basis. So the question of dealing with the Storting. We're busy having a good relationship with the Storting. But it must also be that the Storting knows that when matters are presented to the Storing, there is a collective government behind it. That's the way it is when there's minority governments too. That means that there are some discussions you have to take to figure out what to present to the Storting. That a minority government has to negotiate with one or two or three opposition parties after submitting a case, gives a little more action in Stortinget. I have no desire to act arrogantly in relation to Stortinget – on the contrary. That's why what both the Prime Minister and I have said for many rounds, about the need to monitor how the financial crisis went into the labour market, and how the Government thinks about coming back to it, was sent in a letter to the Stortinget and published in that way. I believe that it would have been much more difficult for Stortinget to know one, two or three days after the financial debate what was the timetable for how to proceed. So to Erna Solberg's description that now it's unsafe for everyone. That's not right, and I think maybe she didn't mean to say it either. Pensioners in Norway know the pension they receive. Many employees in the public sector are well aware of their wages and salaries next year. Many who work in the private sector are also not among the most vulnerable. But for many of those who work in the export industry, and who may now be particularly vulnerable because of a lack of demand, jobs are unsafe. The problem is that if all those who have it reasonably safe behave like they have it unsafe, it becomes even more unsafe for those who have it unsafe. If, for example: a pensioner's partner who has planned to buy a new armchair, thinks that now I have to think about the jam and wait until the next year, it is no wonder that there is a void in the furniture stores. If pensioners who know what they're getting in retirement next year are looking for a good chair in their old days, I really think they're going to go to the store and get away from that good chair. It is not to fire under anyone – what to say – a consumer party either. It's just to encourage people who have safe framework conditions to behave normally.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4132	I am very surprised to note that the financial spokesperson in the Right, Jan Tore Sanner, is taking the floor at the end of this debate and reporting on the closeness of the 2009 budget. Of course, with respect to reporting, there is neither factual nor real coverage for such a claim. In a few minutes we will be adopting the 2009 state budget, which will be implemented from the turn of the year, and which will have a major impact on different sectors of our country, even though Sanner had to mean, believe and claim something else. I want to remind you that we have taken great and important steps in the fall. The government budget for next year was presented on 7 October. In time, it is proposed to put in place a series of measures to tackle the problems we face in the Norwegian economy, and it has been targeted measures that have been very well received by industry both on the labour market and on the employers' side. That's what I thought we should notice. So the Minister of Finance replied, after an initiative from me, that the Government announced fiscal measures just over the New Year. It is to increase the height of the exceptional situation we have, and that those measures are based on good knowledge, on analysis and on estimates that are the best that can be done and that will also result in targeted actions. I'm humble to the problems we're facing. It should apply whether we belong to the opposition or to the position. I don't think it makes sense that one reverses with negative characteristics of others. So I'm going to end by saying, I'm busy with the Storting's role, and I'm busy doing the function that Parliament is going to have in relation to the executive. I would have been. There was something from the background that I took an initiative towards the Government. That role I intend to try to exercise to the best of my ability in the time I am in this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4145	No salary has spoken twice and is given the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4148	I understand that the Minister of Finance believes that the Stortinget should really be the Government forever grateful that the Stortinget is told the day before the financial debate that the government's internal financial debate will continue for two more months, and then the public will know what has been achieved. But that will really change all the assumptions for the budget that the Stortinget is invited to adopt today. I don't think it should trigger any gratitude from the Storting. I maintain that, in my opinion, this is a denial of the Constitutional Obligation of the Grand Duchy in adopting a sound budget for the country in the coming years. That is why there are detailed provisions on deadlines and procedures. It's really putting all this out of control when the government, without telling anything about the content, says that in two months' time you'll bring something that really changes the entire state budget for 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4156	Jan Tore Sanner has spoken twice and gets the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4159	I listened with interest to Reidar Sandal's personal confession of his humility and respect for the Stortinget. I just have to say it that if no one in the opposition perceives that the government parties are humble and have respect for the opposition, it may not be the opposition that is wrong. Yesterday, the finance committee received a copy of this letter that Sandal sent to the finance minister, approx. Half an hour before the Minister of Finance had a pre-called press conference in the hiking hall out here. I don't think it seems very respectful to Stortinget, and I think it's as close as you can get to a breach of the budget as it's possible to get at all. There is at least a clear indication that the budget we are adopting this evening is of a maximum temporary nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4166	To Inge Wohnung, who points to all the rules and guidelines we have here in Stortinget, there's one thing, or really two that's important to say. One is that we have a financial crisis. I believe that all those who have taken part in the debate – throughout the debate and not just at the end of the debate – have come to realize that it has been the review theme that everyone has touched on. It provides exceptional measures in an exceptional situation. That's what the government's warning of when it says what it's doing, that it's going to come back to this later. The second is that, unlike the Inge Wohnung, has, among other things, The representative Fleet at an earlier time in previous debates said that the Storting is prepared to take matters on an ongoing basis in order to deal with this crisis and that they are willing to participate in it. When it's said that the government is arrogant, there's one thing that it's tempting to say to Inge Wohnning, as one of the robbers said to one of the other robbers in Kardemmme City about Aunt Sofie: She didn't hear, the other one says, "She wouldn't hear." That's the situation for Inge Wage. It is quite clear that what we have said is that in the extension of and in the work on this package Stortinget will be heard. The opposition shall be heard and the opposition shall be recorded. I have myself said about some things that have been taken up in the hall, that these are some of the recordings we have to include. In the context of a proposal to extend the licensing arrangements, promoted by Jan Tore Sanner, we have invited them to submit it, because that is one of the proposals we need to consider further. That's the way it has to be. Therefore, the opposition is listened to, but Inge Wages won't hear. I hope all the others have their ears open, because it's an invit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4177	I register that the representative Wohnung uses strong words. We're in the habit of getting paid from time to time. Today he used unusually strong words. I want to say that the representative's salary was damaged to take words in his mouth that he might regret. The Representative for Wages and salaries will now come up with proposals from the Government on measures that change the full content of the 2009 budget. I would like to say this: how can the representative of Wage say something like this before he knows the content of the fiscal package that the Government is going to present in a time, and just flip around with negative statements in this way? In any case, there is no reason to trust someone who makes large demands on others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4182	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 7. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4190	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 to 7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4198	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Finance at the Stortinget meeting on 7 October 2008 on the State and National Budget for 2008 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4208	The chairman of the Committee wishes to speak on the subject of voting. I ask that others who have something to say about the voting system and subsidiary voting become ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4213	I would like to draw attention to a proposal that the representative Jan Tore Sanner has put forward, which relates to the rules of leave in the labour market. So the fight against growing unemployment in our country is a very high priority for the Government and for the Government Party. This work will focus on the provision of measures and legislation for the day-to-day arrangements. In this context, it is also natural to consider extending the period for the payment of the daily allowance. On this basis, I urge the representative, Mr Sanner, to turn his proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4222	Right is concerned with results, so if Mr. Sandal can promise me that we will have good dialogue on the design of that proposal, we will of course accept making the proposal for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4227	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote. In the course of the debate, 77 proposals have been put forward. Proposals Nos. 1 up to and including Nos. 75 is included on pages 181-189 of the vote, while the proposals No. 76 and 77 are distributed in the hall. The following proposals are available: the proposals No 1-7, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 8-12, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left proposals No. 13–16, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right Proposals No. 17 and 18, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 19–59, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 60, 61, 76 and 77, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 62-74, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 75, by Lars Sponheim on behalf of Left Amendment No. 76, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit proposals to extend the period of leave in order to ensure greater safety for workers in the context of the recession in the Norwegian economy into which we are now going.’ The President proposes that the proposal be sent to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Seventy-five from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A Framework Decision No DesignationCrones1State administration12 433 609 000 2Family and consumer58 961 076 0003Cultural activities6 022 586 000 4Foreign affairs30 839 210 0005Justis16 052 716 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing12 024 431 0007Work and social262 064 713 0008Defence33 002 122 0009Industry3 301 557 00010Fiskerry707 851 00011Agriculture13 589 399 00012Oil and energy-119 170 266 00013Environment3 772 974 00014Constitutional institutions1 483 491 00015Health129 555 744 00016Church, education and research40 946 295 00017Transport and communication29 047 337 00018Constitutional grants etc. to the local government sector71 358 080 00019Simultaneous expenditure and revenue11 744 841 00020Export credit-591 600 00021Financial administration, etc.28 704 016 00022Taxes and charges-956 097 449 00023Exchanges-35 964 252 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund – Foreign 346 211 519 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4471	The proposals are then put to the vote. 62-74, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘A Framework Decision 1State administration12 655 309 0002Family and consumer59 321 676 0003Culture5 902 386 0004Foreign affairs31 164 810 0005Justice16 181 216 000 6Inmigration, regional development and housing14 854 981 0007Work and social 262 133 113 0008Defence33 080 122 0009Industry3 853 357 00010Fischery707 851 00011Agriculture13 695 799 00012Oil and energy-119 117 266 00013Environment3 697 343 00014Constitutional institutions1 495 791 00015Health132 552 244 00016Church, education and research39 527 895 00017Transport and communication29 069 337 00018Constitutional institutions1 495 791 00015Health132 552 244 00016Church, education and research39 527 895 00017Transport and communication29 337 00018 to the local government sector68 916 980 00019Simultaneous expenditure and revenue12 552 841 00020Export credit-591 600 00021Financial administration etc.29 031 516 00022Taxes and charges-956 732 149 00023Exchanges-35 944 752 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund – Foreign 341 991 200 000 B The Government asks the Government to bring a case before the Stortinget in the context of the 2009 Revised National Budget, which means that responsibility for the lone minor asylum seekers over 15 years of age will be transferred from the foreign authorities to the child protection system from 1 September 2009. ‘... Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine in detail the proposal of the Publicly Impaired Development Committee for the creation of a larger fund for investment in low-income countries, in particular Africa and the Least Developed Countries [[MUL]] Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the creation of a disembarkation fund for the capture of small king crabs’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to enable the agricultural industry to apply for funds for initial investment from the local food and beverage funds on the same lines as industry or the rest of the world.’ Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the hospitals’ overall operating deficits for 2008, accumulated debt and economic governance and to present the necessary proposals to the Stortinget in relation to the 2009 Revised National Budget.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch a wide-ranging investigation into the hospital funding system that better than the current single-price system captures the need for a complete service chain from prevention and primary health services to specialist health care and rehabilitation.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with a detailed assessment of the increase in the rate of contributions on pension payments and higher real wages growth in order to avoid real decline in the appropriations of the university and higher education sectors.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting as soon as possible with a detailed assessment of the increase in the rate of contributions on pension payments and higher real wage growth in order to avoid real decline in the appropriations of private schools.’ Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a state incentive scheme for walking and cycling, following the model of the State reward scheme for better public transport and less car use in urban areas. The aim of the scheme shall be to influence the planning of transport in municipalities and counties and to act as an incentive for better organisation for walking and cycling.» Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case in which the reorganisation of the Railway Agency, the State Road Administration and the Coastal Administration of State Enterprises are assessed.’ Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government to issue a government loan scheme model for transport purposes, and to present it to the Stortinge in connection with the National Transport Plan 2010–2019.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an assessment of how new, larger investment projects can be financed in order to ensure the rational and coherent development of the projects.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The Government is asked in its governance dialogue with the municipalities to facilitate the re-prioritisation of the funds allocated in 2009 to 5 more hours of week introduced in the autumn of 2008 and 2 more hours of week introduced in the autumn of 2009 respectively by 500 million. $1,000 more teachers and $200 million. crowns to employ several groups of young people as advisers, health sisters and environmental workers.»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4737	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 60 and 61, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4953	There is a vote on proposal No. 77, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e4971	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–59, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘A Framework Decision No DesignationCroner1State administration11 311 561 000 2Family and consumer59 101 271 0003Culture4 942 783 0004Foreign policy19 882 706 467 5Justis16 973 716 000 6Inmigration, regional development and housing10 030 730 0007Labour and social 261 137 961 0008Defence35 165 122 0009Industry4 471 257 00010Fiskerry501 331 00011Agriculture7 388 995 00012Oil and energy-119 987 666 00013Environment3 441 843 00014Constitutional institutions1 465 791 00015Health134 481 416 00016Church, education and research40 030 616 96717Transport and communication33 197 977 00018Rame grant etc. to the local government sector73 825 626 00019Simultaneous expenditure and income12 748 324 00020Export credit 591 600 00021Financial administration, etc.28 416 059 00022Taxes and charges 928 580 249 00023Exchanges-33 602 252 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund – Foreign 324 246 680 566 B The Government requests the Government to propose that the permit regime be extended to 42 weeks from 1 January 2009. C Stortinget asks the Government to increase the pension for all minimum pensioners to 2 G from 1 May 2009. D The Government is asking the Government to remove from 1 January 2009 the system of self-employment allowances for self-employed persons at work. E Stortinget asks the Government to submit proposals to remove the supplementary social benefits law for persons over 67 years of age for new cases with effect from 1 January 2009. F Stortinget asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Civil Service Act to wind up the waiting pay scheme from 1 January 2009 for new cases. G The Government asks the Government to create a new battalion in line with the Telemark Battalion. This is in order to relieve Norwegian soldiers in sharp foreign service, and to strengthen the defence's presence in Norwegian territory. H Stortinget asks the Government to submit a case to establish a confiscation fund for king crabs as a follow-up of St.meld. [[2006-2007]] No 40 on the management of royal crabs. In Stortinget, the Government is asking for proposals to wind up the current milk quota system. J The Government asks the Government to propose a system of tradable production quotas for cow's milk which is not limited to local, county or regional level but which is made nationwide. K Stortinget asks the Government to open up increased imports of organic food through lower tariffs for these goods. L Stortinget asks the Government to propose the creation of a 10 billion energy and petroleum research fund. krona, where the yield is used for technological research to improve the degree of extraction, the economy and the safety of the continental shelf, as well as other relevant energy research projects. M Stortinget asks the Government during the spring of 2009 to submit proposals for inclusion in the self-interest scheme 2 for persons with particularly high costs, and persons with poor ability to pay, related to disease/injury in the oral cavity. N Stortinget asks the Government, during the spring 2009 session, to present a case relating to the financing of the maintenance of medical equipment and building mass in Norwegian hospitals. O The government is asking the government to introduce a funding system in primary, secondary and post-secondary schools based on the government paying school money directly to the school that the student chooses. Economic non-discrimination is envisaged between public and private schools. The unit price shall be adjusted according to the size of the school and differentiated according to the individual needs of the pupils for adapted training. P Stortinget asks the Government to put forward proposals to eliminate the VAT on digital learning materials in initial and higher education. Q The Government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting to adjust the targets for the research share of GDP to 1.4 pst, respectively. for the State and 1,6 pst. for the private. R Stortinget asks the Government to set up an infrastructure fund of 300 billion. krones. The Fund shall be built up over a period of up to 5 years and shall be earmarked for real investment in the road network, the railway and collective networks and broadband/ICT infrastructure with predictable and sustainable financing of infrastructure investments as the overall objective.’;» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose the establishment of a State Children’s Protection Authority.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government to ensure that the National Audit Office carries out an administrative audit of the assistance.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute funds to the financing of the work of damaged children in Ethiopia through the Burn Care Foundation.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide an overview of all Norwegian grant schemes to illustrate the extent to which they support a coherent Norwegian development policy.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to examine various aspects of the establishment of a private enterprise investment fund in developing countries.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the level of safety of the Norwegian courts and to address the need for remedial action.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals allowing private individuals to conduct prison operations. Such private detention shall be for short sentences up to 90 days where there are no exceptional circumstances.» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of a tax exemption on a police service vehicle as from 1 January 2010.’» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the government to investigate and initiate projects to hire settlements in the country of origin of the offender or in other countries with free settlement capacity.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a national strategy for increasing the competence of the municipal sector to combat corruption and economic crime.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asked the Government to address the need for a new location for the specialised units and the alternative location of a modern and forward-looking training centre for police-operative disciplines in Oslo.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to waive the use of advanced parole. No new measures will be launched with compensatory rebates.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government, in the context of the 2009 Revised National Budget, to provide a description and assessment of municipal care measures in case of parole of mentally retarded persons convicted of special reactions or protective surrogate.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to conduct a police study using a model from the Defence Agency.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to reduce the point of entry in the funding mechanism for resource-intensive services from NOK 835000 to NOK 600000 in the State budget for 2010, while at the same time providing the basis for the state compensation. In the long term, the point of entry is reduced to $400,000 per. user.’» Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to review as soon as possible the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Labour Inspectorate with a view to eliminating unnecessary laws and regulations and to simplifying existing laws and regulations.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the management of healthcare reimbursements from the public interest remains with NAV.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to adapt the fee revenue to the operation of the Brønn Island Health Registers by incorporating the level of fees in line with the principle of self-financing, at the latest in the State budget for 2010.’» Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the reorganisation and consolidation of standardisation activities with a view to establishing a system in which the overall responsibility for all standardisation work is added to the Ministry of Industry and Trade.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to examine the possibility of setting up one or more Structural Funds for a fund-in-fund solution which is managed professionally and which can contribute when Norwegian enterprises need increased capital strength.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to repeal the regulation on the export quota for fish and fishery products from sport fishing.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the repeal of the Act to promote the transposition of agricultural products.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the winding-up of concessional limits granted in compliance with the Law on the regulation of acquisitional livestock farming.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the repeal of the law on concession by acquisition of real estate [[Concession Act]] Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to take an initiative to further develop the ‘New Nordic Food’ project.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal on the power situation in Central Norway, which includes: investigates a ‘negative auctioning mechanism’ to stimulate the deployment of new power and the use of reduced electricity charge to compensate electricity customers in full or in part for additional costs.’;» Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The Government requests the transfer of financial responsibility for the health and rehabilitation services to the NAV system.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government requests the transfer of financial responsibility for the TNF inhibitors and MS medicine to the NAV system.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate the possibility of introducing PSA screening as a mandatory risk group scheme.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals from the Government in the context of the 2010 State Budget to replace regional health companies with a State Hospital Directorate.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to file a case for up-alignment to 100 pst. grants for the operation of post-secondary schools and with a contingency plan related to the annual budgetary procedure.’;» Proposal No. 51 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to make proposals for amended study finance, so as to guarantee student loans in ordinary banks. The National Educational Loan Fund is restructured to deal only with student and student grant schemes, as well as with the administration of the Guarantee Facility. The dimensioning of the State Loan Fund for Education is reduced in accordance with the balance.’» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case for building maintenance in the university and higher education fields with assessment and proposals. museum buildings in particular as well as rehabilitation, normal maintenance and new building needs. The size request that a similar rate compensation scheme used for school construction should also be considered for this sector. The size also presupposes that questions relating to rent for new construction projects are dealt with and settled in the case.» Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a mechanism for the purchase of scientific equipment for research efforts at universities and higher education institutions in order to carry out a necessary upgrade over a period of five years and with funding from a foreign budget of its own.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for a change in the budgetary system so that the construction of infrastructure in the field of transport is treated as investment and not as annual expenditure, in order to ensure that the adopted national transport plan also includes multiannual financing decisions.’;» Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the financing of large-scale development projects by means of reasonable State loans repayable over the lifetime of the investment object by road, rail and coastal modes. The size suggests that this should facilitate the implementation of efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport networks in 20 years.» Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch an overall effort to develop large-scale transport projects in order to ensure the participation of international entrepreneurs and asks the Government to use the State Regulatory Authority to ensure the necessary plan clearance and full state project funding of the trials. The size points to the Gardermoen-Otta route as the current distance for such a test.» Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to report shipwrecks along the coast as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of a State Transport Authority with total responsibility for supervision and control in the transport sector.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the procedures of the Equation Authorities in the context of the Equation of Judgments and to propose that the burden of proof in judgments be placed on the Equation Offices rather than on the taxpayer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e5455	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the right, the Christian party, and the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e5479	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13–16, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e5518	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-12, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e5560	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–7, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e5615	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e5845	The matter concerns budget revenue. S. No 1st@item: inlistbox A total of 37 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1, 6, 21-23 and 34, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Party for Progress, proposal No. 2, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 3, 7, 25–28 and 35, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 4, 8, 29–31 and 36, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 5, 9, 10, 32, 33 and 37, by Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Left proposal No. 11–16, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 17, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 18, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposals No. 19 and 20, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 24, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party In the case of further voting, the President will refer to Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 23 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Such a decision was taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the minority proposals currently put forward will not be put to the vote and will therefore lapse because they are based on amounts other than those adopted. It concerns the proposals Nos. 1–12, 15 and 16, 18 and 19, 21–23, 25, 28–30, 32 and 34–37 in the position to be voted over and relating to Framework Areas 18, 19, 22 and 23. In order to save time, the President will not repeat the minority proposals that fall within the respective framework areas. The other proposals are without prejudice to the framework adopted, so these will be contested. The President then first takes these up to voting. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an evaluation of how the Tax Fund Scheme can be set up in order to contribute better to research and development also for larger enterprises.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up its own Tax Fund governing body, with a majority of user representatives.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e5906	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The amount is added to the Government’s proposal for a Decision on customs duties for the 2009 Budgetary Mine, with the following amendment: Section 2 shall be replaced by the following: The Ministry shall be empowered to implement amendments to the GSP scheme so that all countries included in the OECD DAC list are fully free of customs duties, as well as to provide the necessary notifications to the WTO and UNCTAD.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e5925	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the right, from the Christian people, and from the left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e5941	There is a vote on proposal No. 24 from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2009 to come back with a plan for the gradual reduction and liquidation of property taxes on working capital.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e5957	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26 and 27, from the right. Proposal No. 26 sounds: 'The Government asks the Government to amend its regulation of 30 December 1983 No. 1974 on the limitation of the obligation to pay, so that the ceiling on the amount of the payroll obligation for non-profit institutions serving households is set at NOK 8 000.» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to raise the limit on payroll obligations and thus the limit on tax freedom up to NOK 6000 for private employment in relation to the payer’s home and leisure dwelling.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e5979	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the Equation Act so that the payroll obligation is generally set at $3,000 and $8,000 for non-profit institutions serving households.’ The President assumes that the Right now wants to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e5996	There is a vote on proposal No. 31, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the regulation of the Equation Act so that the payroll obligation for private employment in relation to the payer’s home, and the corresponding limit for voluntary organisations, is set at NOK 5000.’ The President assumes that the Right and Left want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e6015	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution and we shall begin with the framework area 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e6307	We're going to area 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e6452	The President also assumes here that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left want to vote against, while the Christian People's Party may support the vote, since they have had a proposal that coincides with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e6465	We have now reached Framework Area 22, and it is under this area that the Stortinget will adopt the tax rules and their revenues for the next year. Framework area 22 is extensive, so we're going to have to add up over this. Before we go to voting, the President must pay attention to and correct an error that has occurred during the production of the suspension. It concerns the placement of Framework Area 23, with I and II, between II and III, under Framework Area 22. Frame area 23 should be located by frame area 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e12792	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e12805	Then the border area of 23 remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e13192	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e13208	During the debate, Ulf Leirstein has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e13235	During the debate, Ulf Leirstein has put forward six proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e13294	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's - the proposals No. 1-3, by Mrs Leirstein, on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right - proposal No. 4, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposals of the Progressive Party and the Right are being put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e13332	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e13357	During the debate, Mrs Leirstein put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-11-27.ana.ud2199e13403	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
