ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e55	The representatives Erling Sande and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the South Tribute County, Michael Momyr, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the United States of America, signed by the chairperson of the delegation, Mr Per Ove Wideth. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Tore Nordtun, Jan Petersen, Hans Olav Syversen and Per Ove Width from 23 May to 27 May, all to participate in the spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Berlin from the representative Lise Christoffersen on leave from 26 May to 28 May to attend meetings of the Council of Europe Monitoring Committee in Kiev, Ukraine. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Cathrin BretzegFor Buskerud County: Nina MjøbergFor Nordland County: Toril Ø. HanssenFor Oslo: Aud KvalbeinFor Rogaland County: Unn Therese O. SørensenFor Vestfold County: Jan Fredrik VogtCathrin Bretzeg and Jan Fredrik Vogt shall be elected to the Lagtinget for the time they meet respectively for the representatives Jan Petersen and Per Ove Wideth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e138	Cathrin Bretzeg, Toril Ø. Hanssen, Aud Kvalbein, Unn Therese O. Sørensen and Jan Fredrik Vogt are present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning sitting - if necessary - continue beyond the regulatory time, at 9 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e154	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e163	In motion for a resolution, no. 8:56 in 2007-2008, the three representatives of Kjønaas Kjos, Svendsen and Eriksson promote proposals for amendments to the current regulations on car-suppression for disabled people. The car welfare scheme is one of several social welfare schemes that we find in Chapter 10 of the Swedish Social Security Act during medical rehabilitation. The purpose of all these social welfare schemes is, inter alia, to: compensating for certain expenses people with ‘disease, injury or hearing’ are charged, compared to others, when they are to work and leisure. The word ‘applied’ is neither in the law nor in the regulation of the provisions on improving the functioning. However, it's a deliberate choice of concept from my side, because the extra costs we're talking about in this case are largely related to the inability or willingness of society to organise so that as much as possible work and leisure as possible on its own premises. We're talking about a welfare society that's not inclusive enough. We are talking about a welfare society in which collective transport systems act to a great extent as barriers to the participation of people with disabilities in working life and leisure activities. The responsibility for our being too short in this area, and shorter than many other countries, is probably fairly evenly distributed throughout the political color scale. However, it is to the benefit of the welfare society that at least some of the man-made barriers are compensated. It is clear from Section 3 of the Regulation that, in addition to the fact that the beneficiary of the benefits has to document the need for transport, it is also required that, in order to obtain the benefit of the car, it is necessary to travel by bus, train, boat, tram and the like. is not possible or imposes unreasonable burdens and that the need for transport is not covered by other modes of transport. It can then be paid both for the car and for the required special equipment. This provision is probably intended as a restriction rule in relation to granting car social benefits, but can at the same time be read as a concession that today's transport system actually seems unnecessarily exclusive to some people's possibility of participation. So the question raised in this case is whether the compensation system is good enough, or whether improvements should be made. The proposers believe the latest regarding the part of the rules that concerns the replacement of a car. It is proposed that the current rules for the repurchasing of a car be softened from today’s requirement for the eleven-year period of use for cars used for leisure up to eight years, similar to those for cars used for work, and that the additional requirement for driving distance for the latter be reduced from 150000 km to 120000 km. The Labour and Social Committee held a hearing on the matter on 7 April this year. Two hearing bodies met, not many but the most relevant: the Joint Organisation of disabled persons and the Association of the Nordic Disabled People. The FFO supported the proposal for equal replacement of eight years, regardless of the purpose of using the car. The Handicap Association proposed an immediate solution which could be exempted from current legislation in cases where it was considered necessary on the basis of operational and road safety. In addition, both hearing bodies were concerned with reviewing the whole car welfare system, both the rules on acquisition, repurchasing and the issue of road safety and accident prevention. At the request of the Committee, the Council of State has estimated the costs of the proposed changes. The numbers are uncertain, but in the order of magnitude plus/minus $1 billion. The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Advance Party, have taken the letters of the Council of State for information and have chosen not to propose amendments at this time. The size should in a short time adopt both new discrimination and accessibility laws and new planning and building laws. That's where we're going to decide when and how to stop new and remove old barriers to inclusion. In addition, Stortinget is aware that the Government is already carrying out assessments of the car-suppression system after, among other things. the recommendation of the Riksrevisionen and the approval of the Stortinget itself. The majority have also noticed that when the State’s accident commission proposed changes to the car system in 2002, things other than driving distance and the age of the car were important in terms of road safety. We are also aware that some of the recommendations have already been implemented by the Government and well received by the organisations. The majority do not propose the rejection of the proposal for a representative, but we suggest that the protocol be annexed pending the outcome of the working group already set up by the Government to assess the whole car welfare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e178	There is a cross-political consensus that car support is an important measure to enable disabled people to participate in society in the same way as everyone else. For the vast majority of those who have been granted such a car, this is their only chance to get out to shop, go to the doctor or visit relatives and friends. It is a well-known matter that the older the car becomes, the more often it needs to be repaired and serviced for a shorter or longer period. In addition to high costs, it also causes some significant problems in terms of not being able to get out and by becoming heavily dependent on the goodwill and help of others. Like user organisations, the Progress Party has received a number of requests that a life span of 11 years is a major problem, with restrictions on the participation of users of these cars. A few weeks ago, I was in a meeting with the Danish Handicap Federation. I asked there about their rules for adapted cars, and was told about their subsidy schemes, which were generally better than the arrangements we have. What aroused the most interest in me was that the individual got a new car every six years. I repeat: every six years. When I told them that the Progress Party had now made suggestions to lower the replacement time from eleven to eight years, they laughed. They thought I was flattered. After asking me three times if this was really true, they said that the car was often the only opportunity for users to get out in order to be able to participate in society in the best possible way, and that it was therefore absolutely essential that they had a car that worked at all times, and that the expenses were not disproportionate. It was not difficult to agree with this reasoning. I note that the Progress Party is the only party in this Chamber that supports all those who each day are struggling with an old car that makes participation in society impossible. There is a warm talk about inclusion, equal opportunities and participation, but unfortunately nothing or little is done when policy is to be shaped. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to say that the legislation around this car system generally has a lot of other issues. The allocation rules have gaps, which I will come back to in my question to the Council of State. I have previously addressed the depreciation policy with the Council of State. State councils have followed up on introducing a slight improvement on them, but they are still not good enough. Finally, I have an example from the Norwegian Handicap Federation East. I will quote from an article in the magazine: ‘I have been granted a HC car since 1964. Because of it and the eventually quite many HC cars I've had, I could start working, and I've been working for years. But I do not stop to be amazed; poliomyelitis is a permanent injury, I am a wheelchair user, has been for countless investigations, there are “fine” reports and information on me in the NAV system. However, every time I apply for a car, we apparently start again, with new investigations. NAV must be a fantastic company with very optimistic employees. Even with a progressive permanent disease, NAV staff believe that previous data are no longer relevant. They MUST examine whether I have become fresher - whether a miracle has occurred." This is just an extract of a larger article that I would recommend to the Committee and the Council of State to read. I also hope that this issue will be followed up when the car service system is being reviewed. To all those who today sit inside their homes without the opportunity to get out because they have an old car that is worn out, there is no good today. They still have to wait until the car is 11 years old, although this may be three more years. I shall deal with the proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e218	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e221	I think the case rapporteur had in many ways a clear explanation in his statement, and that is far on the way to covering the assessments that the Right also has in this matter. There is little doubt that people with disabilities may be the individual group in society with the greatest challenges of getting into work and being in a work situation. The reasons for that are many, and it will lead too far to go deep into it. But it's kind of a fact that we have to base both on this case and on other issues that have to do with this group. There is broad political consensus that it is an important political task to facilitate relations so that this group has better opportunities to become a part of working and social life in line with others. That's why we have, among other things, rules relating to access to the car. These rules are sufficiently clear in themselves, but at the same time rules can never become so clear that they do not require case handlers in the auxiliary equipment to use significant judgement when making a decision. On the basis of that, I would just draw attention to the minority comment that the Right and Christian People's Party are united in the position, where we point out that in cases where the acquisition or replacement of a social security car is a necessary prerequisite for maintaining or starting a work relationship, opening should be provided in order to be able to deviate from the criteria. Thus, in situations where there is one important prerequisite for participation in professional life, it should be possible to consider whether these standard criteria can be practised with a judgement that should perhaps be more favourable to the user.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e235	I also agree with the rapporteur's comments, but I have a few comments in addition. A working group has been set up to look at possible changes in the organisation of the car system. One of the issues raised by the representative Kari Kjenaas Kjos in his statement was that it appears that people who obviously need to keep a social security car have disproportionate administrative resources and that it must be possible to look at how the NAV system is carrying out these reviews. I have received a number of enquiries about this. These are people like this. have polymyelitis, have a chronic or permanent disability, which is also progressive, i.e. you get worse and worse. There should perhaps be little reason to use unreasonable resources to start over for each round. I just need to draw attention to the fact that there is a system of popular protection called ‘work and education travel’, for which it is also possible to use for those who are going to work or for training and for whom the sea is not able to drive or use public transport, or for which there is no public transport. It is important that we bring with us the width of the offers that are. In addition, it's a TT service, but it has slightly different functions. But the system of popular protection called 'work and education travel' is a possible system. It also works for a good part of the people who either cannot use the car or have no car, so they get to work. It's incredibly important. That's why it's important that we review all the arrangements we have now, so that they don't prevent people from getting into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e246	Car support is an important measure to enable disabled people to participate in society in the same way as others. Norway’s Handicap Association and the Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons (JO) indicate that they are receiving numerous enquiries about the car-suppression scheme, among others. because the different driving time and distance requirements are based on the purpose of the use of the car and not on the actual need for the use of the car. Some users will eventually receive large costs for repairs, and someone seems to have to leave the car alone when the costs become too high. I would like to underline the importance of having a car-suppression system that ensures safe-for-use cars for disabled people who depend on cars to participate in work and activities. I have noticed that the State Emergency Commission has proposed measures that are not primarily linked to the age and driving distance of the car. The Commission points first of all to measures such as training of drivers, that the rebuilt vehicle undergoes pre-delivery roadworthiness testing and approval at the traffic station, as well as follow-up by the assistance centres. The National Audit Office has examined the administration of the car welfare systems by the State of Labour and Welfare and has made some recommendations for improvement. The size has joined these proposals. The government refers in the State budget to the development of an action plan, the immediate implementation of measures and the establishment of a working group such as: assesses possible changes in the organisation of the car system. I would like to stress the importance of the proper functioning of the car system and that the Stortinget has already asked to be informed about the progress. I have also noticed the calculations in the letter of reply from the Council of State, which shows that the costs of a general reduction in the cost of replacement from eleven to eight years for all cars are very high, scheduled to a place between 900 million. NOK 1035 million. kr, and that, after an overall assessment, the Council of State does not see the basis for following up a proposal for a phasing-out plan which changes the conditions for the re-acquisition of social security vehicles. The Christian People's Party shares this view and awaits the outcome of the in-depth review of the car welfare systems. At the same time, I would like to stress that in cases where the acquisitions or replacements of a social security vehicle are a necessary condition for maintaining or starting a job, opening should be provided in order to deviate from the criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e261	It is an overall committee that underlines the importance of the car welfare system in enabling disabled people to participate in society in line with others. The proposers wish to reduce the recharging time and driving distance for the repurchasing of the car in order to ensure that the users of the scheme have an operating car at all times. You can understand that. But we record, as the representative Woie Duesund also pointed out, that, in the context of the review of the scheme, the State Emergency Commission points out that there may be other aspects of the scheme than the replacement frequency that can best ensure satisfactory standards for the specially adapted cars. I note that the Progress Party chooses to disregard the professional assessments that have been made, and also disregards the very large costs associated with their proposal to introduce an eight-year renewal period and a distance of 150000 km for disabled people who have a car via the car system. We are told that the Progress Party chooses to run the case as they do. However, I think there is reason to stress that there has been a useful review of the entire car system, and that we have gained more insight into how these systems work. I think the entire committee will have an offensive look at how we can ensure that the group of disabled people who depend on the car system is guaranteed a good offer in the future. However, it is not certain that reducing the number of years of driving time is the most appropriate solution in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e270	I refer you to the rapporteur's good report, which is also shared by the Left. The left believes that it is the duty of society to design the physical everyday life as well as possible for those with movement problems. The car scheme for disabled people is a measure that makes people with reduced mobility a simpler everyday life. The proposers for this proposal will have a phasing-out plan for the current car system, so that the car can be replaced after eight years or if the driving distance is reduced. The main challenges lie in making society more universally designed. The Labour and Social Committee is now dealing with a law of discrimination and accessibility, and this is where the major challenges lie. We need to make construction available, and we need to make public transport more accessible and make open air space available and make it possible for people with disabilities to get out of work. The car system is a small but important part of making society more universally available to everyone. The system is flawed, as many people have been in the past, and it takes a long time to get the car. If you're going to fix it, it's a bureaucratic process you're going to have to go through. The left believes that NAV needs to make greater use of more judgement when it comes to handling applications related to the car system, as the car is so important to those who use the system. I would like to congratulate the proposers on their commitment to this matter, but at this very moment, the Left believes that we are now facing major and considerably more costly challenges to make society more accessible to everyone. Finally, I would like to point out that on an incubation, the Left has not joined a note with the Right and Christian People's Party, which states that: «in cases where the acquisition or replacement of a social-security vehicle is a necessary condition for maintaining or starting a job, opening should be provided in order to deviate from the criteria».
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e291	I will start by saying that I also believe that the rapporteur explained the matter in a way that is also adequate for my part. I would therefore just like to take the opportunity to make a few comments. Firstly, I have noticed that the Committee stresses the importance of ensuring the safety of cars and their traffic, and that in this context the Committee refers to a report by the State Disaster Commission in 2007. Let me also stress that these conditions are also important to the Government. Therefore, in 2007 a scheme of grants was introduced to cover the periodic monitoring of specific automotive equipment. In addition, most social security owners receive a basic social security rate of 3 for extra costs incurred in operating a car. The amount of the benefit is DKK 14 100 per year. There may also be grants for the necessary driving training. I have also noticed that some members of the Committee express concern that disabled people are being prevented from taking part in the labour market because of the lack of replacement of the social security vehicles. I can inform you that persons who have been granted a car benefit through the work and education travel scheme can get transport covered for this purpose if the car is on service or for repair beyond one week. Then, of course, I noticed that the committee awaits the outcome of the in-depth review of the car-suppression system. I can assure you that I will return to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way when the result is available. I can also assure you that I have noticed, of course, the expectations of the investigation that is taking place in the vote, and what has been said here in the debate. We ensure that, not least, two aspects in particular need to be reflected in that investigation: the question of the Right, the Christian People's Party, and also the Left, of possible discretionary exceptions, and what has been discussed by many, both representatives of the Advance Party and others, of the procedures and procedures in NAV in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e302	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e305	I have previously asked the Council of State a written question about the following: A woman has had a permanent illness that meant that the employer had arranged her work and provided her with a parking space, so that she could continue working instead of being disqualified. The illness made her dependent on an organized car when she among other things did. cannot go out and into collective means of transport. She applied for her first car, and was refused because her own private car was less than eight years old. The Council of State confirmed that the legislation was such. When the woman does not get to work, after a very short period of time, the sick pay will exceed the amount of social benefits requested for an organized car. I would like to ask the Council of State if he has any plans to make sure that reason and economy can be used rather than paragraphs in a law that clearly screams for improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e314	Of course, I mean the same thing now as I meant when I answered similar questions earlier, while I have emphasised, both in letters to the Committee and now from the Chair, that we are reviewing the whole car service system. If there's obvious defects in it, there'll be an ambition to get them fixed in that review -- without me saying that that means we've concluded with neither one thing nor the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e319	No more lines have been requested. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e324	First, I need to say that several of those who have had contributions from the pulpit operate at a cost of NOK 1 billion. If you read the proposal, which is about eight years and 150 000 km, and look at the calculations that the Council of State itself has done, then the price tag is 200 million. kr. I think there's a little bit of a difference of $1 billion and $200 million. kr. You might be able to use the right numbers. So it is that this case has been lying down for a very long time before it came up in the main hall. In the meantime, the revised budget has arrived. That means that the Progress Party must draw up the proposal that is in the matter and that I have been promoting. Rather, the Progress Party will follow up this matter in the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e331	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she is making. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3357]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e349	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e356	We will examine a proposal from representatives Robert Eriksson, Anders Anundsen and Kari Kjønaas Kjos to raise the ceiling on training aid for people with disabilities. The Committee shares the proposalers' intention that it is important to maintain good and varied training provision for people with disabilities. The proposers believe that a sensible and short-term measure will be to exempt from the relevant training regulations requiring specific expensive equipment. The proposers also believe that if there is to be a ceiling, it should be increased to DKK 100000 per year. years. The Committee considers it important to allow disabled persons to take appropriate training which may provide long-term vocational training, as pointed out in the consultation note from the Norwegian Handicap Association. A minority of the Committee points out that, in the context of the implementation of the Anti-Discrimination Act and its follow-up, it would be natural to harmonise legislation and regulations on education and necessary equipment. A minority of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left point to the fact that the justification for a three-year training limit as a follow-up measure was to emphasise that there is work that is the objective ofrecruitment and that rerouting aid should not act as an alternative to general public study funding. They further indicate that the limit is not absolute. Where it is perceived as necessary and appropriate for a person with disabilities to pursue a course of training which is a prerequisite for lasting work under § 11-6 of the Law on Social Security, a derogation from the three-year rule is granted. We also stress that the prospects for lasting employment through an adapted longer training cycle, compared with a shorter re-employment scheme, must form the basis for the exercise of discretion in relation to the exceptions, with emphasis on flexibility. The Committee emphasises the social dimension of all those who want it and is a prerequisite for participation in society. Furthermore, a minority, consisting of the Right Christian People's Party and the Left, proposes that the Government come back with an adjustment to the cost ceiling for education as a rerouting benefit. They also point out that they want a detailed explanation from the Council of State on the uncertainty associated with a consultation note from the Forum on Vocational Schools and the figures used by the Econ analysis on the number of participants in education that cost more than the ceiling. It has been promoted by a minority proposal from the Progress Party. I expect them to explain that for themselves. Furthermore, the Committee has no comments and proposes that the proposal be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e375	Getting more disabled workers into the labour market is an important goal for the Workers' Party and for the Government. If we are to have an inclusive society, anyone who wants it and has the opportunity to do it must be able to get out of work. The Committee had worked through the proposal we have before us today, three organisations for consultation. Everyone stressed that people with disabilities want to get into work. Norway's Handicap Association, among others emphasis on the crucial role of education in this context. They showed that disabled people profit from high education but have on average lower education than others. We have to take that seriously. The concrete proposal promoted by the Progress Party today is to raise the ceiling on training aid for people with disabilities. In this context, I believe it is important to clarify that there are exceptions to the general rules on, for example, in current legislation. social security benefits, if required to implement the necessary and appropriate school measures. The 2006 Econ evaluation says that the impact of this ceiling has not been significant, and that the cost ceiling only affected those who initially wanted to take education where the cost was higher than the ceiling. They estimated that it could be more than a thousand affected persons per year. I am aware that, among other things, The Forum for Vocational Schools believes that this evaluation has weaknesses. They may think so, but to that I would say that no matter how you look at things, we have to admit that we have a lot of disabled people who need to be able to get into work. I believe that our starting point must be to say that all people, regardless of the level of function, are to be given arrangements and follow-up that make it possible to do so. For this reason, the Government is implementing extensive changes in welfare management to resolve rigid systems and legislation that can prevent people from getting into work and addressing individual needs. People are different and have different assumptions. Therefore, we will now combine several of the interim benefits and assume that the benefits should not be decisive for the follow-up. Here it is the individual who is to be at the centre, who is to have his/her working capacity assessed and who is to have his/her job organized on the basis of his/her assumptions. Education will be an important part of this path for many. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes that it is working to look at the different social benefits in terms of social security, and that it would be natural in this context to consider more closely the limitations set in relation to the social benefits of the school scheme while it is being rehabilitated. The Council of State also writes in the same letter that he does not ignore the fact that a person should consider whether there is a basis for some adjustment to the cost ceiling for training as a re-routing aid, including: in the light of the fact that it has been kept nominally unchanged since 2003. That, I think, is a wise approach. But at the same time, I would like to stress that we need to see things in context. I would therefore like to reiterate the point of the huge changes that are taking place in welfare management: we are now building systems with more flexibility, where people need to assess their opportunities on an individual basis and get follow-up and organisation based on it. I think that would be crucial if we were to succeed in getting more disabled people to work or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e394	I would like to start from a letter dealing with this matter, which has been sent to all the members of the committee. It is a young man who has chosen a craft because of dyslexia and who, after a few years in a leading position, has to find a profession that does not require him to go and stand. His meeting with the NAV system wasn't good reading. He took his first meeting with NAV while he was sick, when he wanted to plan the further course in order to get started quickly with re-schooling. He was told that as long as he was only sick and not registered as unemployed, they could not offer him anything. At the end of the sick leave period, there were only three weeks left until the deadline for applying for schools expired, and he expected help to choose where he should apply. He didn't get that, so he searched on his own. After he had been informed that he had entered the desired school, NAV believed that he would probably not handle this school, and sent him to a logoped to check whether he had dyslexia, despite the fact that there were already papers on it. The logoped person thought it would do the education if it could take place over four years instead of three. This was rejected by NAV, as this would increase costs, and it is only blind and those sitting in a wheelchair who are granted an additional year. He never got started with education that fall. The fact that he went on for an additional year to begin his three-year education in the fall after, i.e. four years in total, had no significance for NAV, which he questions. That's essentially what I'm doing. Too many people spend an unnecessary amount of time reintroducing money in their education because NAV is trying to stay within the scope of education support. Instead, they participate in a number of courses in the direction of NAV, which also costs money, but which are not included in the total. According to the Forum for Vocational Schools, the average age for those concerned is 38 years, and they have a diverse and practical professional background. They say in a study that a practical and vocational education of one to two years is better suited to them than a more theoretical and academic higher education of three to five years. A lady could tell me that she herself had gone on rehab money for seven years, and that she still did not have a full education. On the other hand, she had the papers that she had gone something to school and had more than twenty courses. This is simply pointless. You wear people out before they get really started. There might be some reason why only 50 pst. by those who follow a recovery plan, actually come into operation. 50 pst. They're getting tired of it. The agreement on a more inclusive working life and welfare notification emphasises that all instruments should be used to promote activity rather than passivity. The ceiling on education aid is an obstacle to this. I don't stop wondering how effective a majority government actually is. It would be thought that making changes better would be a narrow matter, especially when the proposal as a whole does not lead to increased costs - only increased opportunities. The Progress Party notes that the Government Parties once again support the intention of the proposal, but, as is always the case, it is not possible to take a position despite the fact that it has been announced by several teams that the ceiling for training aid is an obstacle to the provision of a good, correct and effective school offer. Once again, one will come back to this on a later occasion - which is very regrettable with regard to admission to schools for the autumn of 2008. The result is that many people might suffer the same fate as the man I first told them about. How many will go passively to return money in the hope of starting a vocational school next autumn? This is frustrating for those who are involved. It provides an overall increase in the cost to society and is a confusing signal to send to those working in the NAV offices. Proposals for revised national budget for 2008 have already been submitted. This case has been lying for a very long time. I therefore propose that the ceiling on training aid for people with disabilities be raised to DKK 100 000 per year. year with effect from 1 July 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e435	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e438	Lately today, we are going to debate a matter of youth that ends up in dissatisfaction, sometimes too early, because they don't get good enough follow-up early enough. That is probably some of what this matter is about. This is one of the reasons why the Government has gone through and is reforming the labour and welfare management and the legislation that belongs to it. There's a need for that. There are a lot of stoppers in the system. It has been described by several speakers. I'll say a little bit more about that sail too. I am perhaps the only one here who was in favour and voted against when the roof was introduced. The Progress Party also agreed to introduce this roof. I want to say that the arguments against the scheme were exactly as good as they are today. The situation is also exactly the same, namely that there is a need for those who need assistance to return to work to receive a real individualised offer and adaptation to get into work. Education is very important in today's labour market. Eva Kristin Hansen referred in his article to the organisations of disabled people who demonstrate that disabled people benefit most from education, and those who have the least. This means that if we manage to bet on longer terms, with skills enhancement, we will achieve that more people will be able to fit into the labour market, and not least that they will have a more stable relationship to work and not become a type of back-up worker, swing-door worker, or whatever you call it. It is those persons who are least able to deal with it, who should experience such a situation. Therefore, SV looks forward to the review that we are now going to have of the legislation in this area. Then it is not just the ceiling on funding to be discussed, there are many other schemes. It's also important to look at the age limits in this system, so that you get the real personalization needed to succeed better than what we're doing today. I want to mention some of the offers that have been tried on a project basis in this area -- I mention it to boredom. The SAVIS project, which we have had in Hedmark and Uppland, has just focused on longer courses of education for people who have been out of the labour market for a very long time. They have succeeded in overcoming formal education within a fixed period of time, but a little longer, and with a cost framework somewhat exceeding the ceiling here. They have tried to derogate from different rules. I am concerned that we are now looking at the legislation. We're supposed to have some limitations on it, but the main focus must be on actually ensuring that people who are not at work have a real opportunity to get and to keep a job for a longer time. I am absolutely sure that the calculation in the long term will go up if we put more money on longer qualifying courses rather than continuing to try shorter measures again and again - measures that experience unfortunately does not often lead to people actually coming to work. That is why I very much look forward to the proposals that come from the Government in this area. I know there is a need for a revision of many of these rules, but there is also a need for NAV to meet people who have ambitions to get back to work and have a desire for education, with more encouragement than many of the examples I have received, to show, examples that show that one is almost becoming discouraged and is told that one must jeopardize the desire and ambitions of a level that NAV seems more appropriate. I think we have everything to earn by backing up people's desire and desire both to get education and to get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e451	There is broad political agreement that education may be an appropriate response to the need for persons with different forms of professional disability to acquire qualifications in order to secure sustainable work. The starting point must be that when NAV assesses, in cooperation with each individual, what qualification measures are necessary to return to work, the assessment must be carried out on an individual basis. People are different, and that's why the good solutions are different. At the same time, public social welfare schemes shall be fair. The country's loan fund is and will continue to be the main instrument of public education funding, including for persons with disabilities. However, when new or further education is the most appropriate re-training measure, this should, of course, be used. Just to show that education funding and reintroduction are two different schemes with two different main objectives, there must be different regulatory frameworks that support the different objectives. Therefore, it is reasonable to have a lower age limit, cost ceilings and maximum level of education as re-education, to mark it as a starting point. It is and shall be possible for the administration to exercise discretion when there are good reasons to deviate from the general rule. Lasting social links and economic independence from public social welfare schemes are a good reason for flexible use of discretion. Of course, that does not mean that the applicable rules and limits are correct. The Christian People's Party believes that there are good reasons to adjust the amount limit, and asks together with the Right and Left that the Government do so in the context of next year's budget. It may be done independently of the more comprehensive evaluation of the overall legislation in the field described in the Ministry’s comments on the proposal. I am reasonably sure that there is understanding far into the government fraction for such a requirement. If you can't or won't vote for this today, you can at least promise to whisper a few words to the council when the government fraction will come with its wish list to the next year's budget. I hope that at least that promise can be made from the government fraction here today or from the council itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e460	Initially, I would like to make it clear that we all agree that it is important to maintain good and varied training provision for people with disabilities. I also note that although the majority of the committee does not support the proposal now, it refers to a new letter dated 27 March of this year explaining that the ministry in connection with the follow-up to St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007, Work, well-being and inclusion, also assesses the constraints in relation to the social benefits of school measures in the course of rehabilitation. In this context, I would like to inform you that, in the near future, the Ministry will send a proposal for a new regulation on labour market measures to be consulted. There we suggest that the maximum rates of training measures for the future should not be regulated in the regulation itself, but by the ministry. In this way, the rates could be assessed in relation to the annual government budgets. The proposals made by the representatives to amend the ceiling on costs are justified on the one hand by the concern that this limits the possibility of training as a return measure and, on the other hand, by the fact that private vocational schools are not able to maintain their operations at the rates currently applicable to training as a reintroduction measure. I would like to remind you that, in an evaluation carried out in 2006, Econ found relatively small effects on the cost ceiling introduced in 2003. There were no signs that the cost ceiling had led to fewer requests for rehabilitation or that fewer started schooling. However, it was found that the total amount of social benefits paid to the school went down, among other things. through a shift from more expensive to cheaper education and from private to public schools. I see that the members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want a more detailed explanation of the uncertainty associated with the number of those who participated in education before the cost ceiling was introduced and where education was more expensive. In its evaluation, Econ estimated that there were more than 1000 people per year affected by the cost ceiling. In a note of 13 March this year to Secretary of State Laila Gustavsen, the Forum for Vocational Schools has criticised Econ's estimates and has stated that more than 3000 disabled people took practical vocational training at a vocational school before the cost ceiling was introduced. I can't see that the numbers 1,000 and 3,000 are expressing the same ratios. The figure ‘1000’ did not refer to the number of persons under education at the vocational schools as a whole, but was an estimate for persons affected by the cost ceiling, i.e. the number of persons who wanted to take training where the cost was higher than the cost ceiling. The figure ‘3 000’ of the Executive Board for the presentation of vocational schools referred to the number of those who took practical training at a vocational school as a refresher measure. If the figures were to be comparable, it had to be assumed that all practical education in a specialised school had costs above the cost ceiling. In a note of 16 January this year from the FFO, the Attführersbetriebs and the Forum for Vocational Schools to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, it is said that in 2005 - two years after the roof was introduced - the number was reduced from 3000 to 1000, and now there are only a few hundred left. However, it is difficult to benefit from the fact that the whole reduction in the number of those who took practical vocational training is due to the introduction of the cost ceiling, although I cannot, of course, rule out that this has been important. Finally, I would like to remind you that exemptions from the cost ceiling can be made if the school measure is considered both necessary and appropriate in order for the person to be able to get to work. Individual assessments shall be carried out, and we aim to ensure that in 2009 everyone shall be given the right to assess their need for assistance through a work capacity assessment which ensures that the individual clearance work takes place in a more systematic and professional manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e483	In the Council’s reply letter of 27 March 2008, the Council of State stated, inter alia, that: the following: ‘The reason why private training offers are chosen as follow-up measures may be that in many cases they are short and professional. To the extent that a private school offer involves a reduction in time for return benefits compared to other appropriate alternatives, there is a potential for savings. However, according to the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, a longer-term offer could provide better skills, which could provide a better basis for job search and not least remain in work.’ Does the Council of State think it a good signal to send to our young people who, in these days, assess their education, that vocational education will provide poor skills, poor grounds for job search and risk of running short-term work?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e493	No, but I guess I don't feel like that's what's in the quote that was read up here. It is clear that when assessing thereturns, there are different considerations to take, and there are different ways to go - whether to choose short, professional or longer-term reintroduction courses. I believe that what is very important is that we now develop a system where there are good job performance assessments and good dialogues in NAV that is the basis for choosing one or the other, and that it is the user's needs that govern the choices made, and not other, more regulated assessments, so that we go from traditionally regulated schemes to more user-driven schemes. That also makes me hope, like what the committee's chairman had in mind, that we can get a much greater degree of flexibility into the legislation in relation to both cost ceilings, age limits and everything that is currently very overarching rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e500	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3357]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e518	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e527	In the representative proposal from Woie Duesund and Davaøy, the Government is asked to take more measures to reduce the number of young people who are under-employed due to mental illness. I share the concerns underlying the proposal. Recently, I traveled an interpellation on the same matter, and I experienced that both the Council of State and an aggregate increase looked with great concern at the fact that young people are such a large part of the new miscarriage. Among these young people, various mental disorders are the dominant cause of disability grant. Researchers tell us that mental disorders are still shameful, and that many leave to seek help in time. The proposal for a representative refers to the fact that only one of the three who receives disability benefits due to mental problems states that they have applied for help for their suffering. An overall committee underlines the need to strengthen the competence of both welfare management and medical auxiliaries in the field of mental health. And we're adding: it's important that the sectoral divisions in the administration don't limit the interaction. The national strategy plan for work and mental health presented by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion in the autumn of 2007 is an important step in the right direction. A broad majority of the Committee underlines this in its comments. Through the escalation plan for mental health - and there is something else - the municipalities have become more central players in the relief work for young people with mental disorders, and the Government has also announced that the school health service should be strengthened. This is an important prevention measure. The Committee has assessed the four proposals presented in the draft representative and is somewhat divided into their evaluations. There is a minority position, where the Christian People's Party, at one of the points with the support of the Left, follows up the main elements of the proposals. I will briefly comment on why the majority do not see it as necessary to address the proposals as they exist. With regard to the proposal that the legislation for the qualification programme be reviewed in such a way that all those who receive a medical treatment offer for mental illness are included in the programme, the Committee indicates that the qualification programme will cover that group provided that the programme is considered appropriate to strengthen their employment opportunities. However, this is a new measure, and it is important to ensure information on how the scheme can be used for this particular group. The proposers then propose the introduction of a self-proprietary exemption for persons under 40 years of age according to certain criteria. The majority of the Committee agrees here with the Council of State that this is not an appropriate solution. It could also turn out to be unfortunate in relation to other groups of weak economies. With regard to the proposal to implement a new competence programme in the management of work and welfare in the field of mental illness, the majority of the Committee demonstrates that this is already being done through projects already under way. However, although the Committee stresses the importance of developing better competences for mental illness, the Committee considers that the measures taken must be implemented before new ones are launched. However, the majority ask the Ministry to focus its attention on the interaction between healthcare and labour and welfare management and keep the Stortinget informed about this. The latest proposals of the proposers are linked to a desire to increase the appropriations for research and to establish a dedicated centre of competence for mental health. The majority believe that the work undertaken through the appropriations for the «Psychological Health Programme 2006-2010» of the Norwegian Research Council and through regional centres of expertise meets the needs of the proposers in their proposals. But we therefore share assessments of the need for research and development of better competences in this area. Although the Committee concludes slightly differently on the need for individual measures, I would like to stress that there is an overall committee that is committed to developing better and more effective measures to reduce the number of young people suffering from mental illness. It's an important work the proposers have done, and this is something we're going to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e548	The representatives of Davøy and Woie Duesund raise a very important issue - how can we reduce the number of people who are at an early age due to mental illness? This Opinion was drawn up in the light of the paper produced by the Section for Employment, Social Affairs and Citizenship, chaired by Mr de la Malène (Germany — Employers). No matter how resource-intensive you may be in other areas, you become vulnerable when mental illness strikes. So, as the proposers point out, over half of those under 40 years of age have different mental disorders as their main diagnosis. If we add secondary diagnosis, the proportion is even higher. Researcher Morten Blekesaune at NOVA writes in his report on young disability pensioners that the proportion of mental and behavioural disorders among disabled people under the age of 25 is even higher than that again. If you look at everyone at all, the youngest sufferers are not so many with mental diagnosis, but they deserve the highest attention from society. These are people with life in front of them. When mental disorders become the entrance to a passive life as a social worker early on, it should not be much more imaginative to imagine that in itself it does not exactly contribute to making life easier. Even if you get a guarantee of a certain level of income, there's still a lot you have to worry about what's important to young people, of what your peers are gradually working on from education/competence, interesting jobs, active leisure, to mention something. So we know that young disabled people have been an important target group ever since the workline was launched more than 20 years ago. Already then we knew that about half of the young disabled had not even been in a recovery measure until they were effectively excluded on a permanent basis. Blechesaune points out that the register data for young disability pensioners with mental illness are uncertain as to how long health problems have been, whether they are born or not. However, for the group who was disabled at age plus/minus 30, he finds that it takes an average of six to seven years from the first recorded disability to disability. The question is, what happens in that period? Many measures have been tried by both whips and carrots. No one spends more money than we do on rehabilitation and rehabilitation, but so far without the big results. The OECD points this out, as do the Norwegian research communities. They have shown differences in both drug use and outcomes between Norway and other countries. The feedback is that our actions have been less individual and not directly laboured, as in many other places. It must mean that the change in course we are making, with NAV reform, work clearance, qualification programme, wage subsidies and organisation at work, must have taken the right step. Seeing the individual’s needs must also mean seeing the individual’s need for medical services. It's a cross of thought that one in three has never sought help for their mental disorders. So they could have gone on average for six to seven years, maybe longer, without getting caught. At the same time, we know that everyone must have been in a medical assessment before the disability pension is granted. You must have been in contact with the other auxiliaries, perhaps also an advisory doctor in the social security system. How, then, is it possible that so many do not receive medical follow-up? Once again, what has happened in the six to seven years before? Is it the primary doctor who failed? Has anyone been missing a reference? Has the auxiliary device otherwise given up too easily? Is there a good enough system for follow-up of applicants for disability pension and new disability? Are we missing tools? Do we lack access to competence? The proposers themselves mention the importance of catching up problems early, in young people’s own arenas. The school is such an obvious arena. But we may not have equipped the school well enough in terms of its ability and ability to do so. So what do we do? In its letter, the Council of State has referred to a number of measures that have been taken, both internally in the welfare state, including: building skills in the first line, and in the field of psychiatry, not least the action plan on work and mental health. I am convinced that these measures now need time to work. The majority sympathise with the input of the proposers, but we therefore propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes. For what is important now, as I said, is that the measures must have time to work. What is important is to work strategically, systematically and in the long term, carefully assessing the results achieved along the way. Young people suffering from mental illness are faced with a group in which we need to monitor whether the measures have the desired effect. I think it's the strategic, long-term job that's most important now, not the whole time to introduce new measures, even though they're never that good. We need to focus on what we have now implemented, and see if we can achieve the desired results.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e571	The rapporteur had a good review of the matter, so you might not take the floor, but I will still give some consideration. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2007-2008 and in its alternative budget proposal, the Progress Party has proposed an increase of 100 million in psychiatry. kr. Also under the hood. 701 Research promoted the Progress Party's proposal to increase the allocation by 100 million. kr. The Progress Party considers that psychiatry is an area in which research efforts need to be stepped up and supports the ideas of proposers for increased research that can help improve the situation both on the labour market and on health, for more patients with mental health problems. The Progress Party agrees that efforts in the field of psychiatry research should be significantly increased. With regard to the establishment of a dedicated centre of excellence, the Progress Party is uncertain about how such a centre can be added to a general medical department of a university. If a centre of psychiatry is to be set up, it is necessary to specify which part of the psychiatry is to be involved and what tasks such a centre should have. The Progress Party considers that a centre of expertise may need to be added to a university hospital. The Progress Party supports the intentions of the proposers, but considers that, in this context, it is reasonable to await the proposals made by health care establishments for the national centres of expertise needed in the specialist healthcare service and where they should be located and will come back to the case when proposals are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e584	Norway is one of the countries in the world with the largest share of the working population. This should be a cross of thought, not least given that for many years there has been a broad political focus and a broad commitment to this field. But the results have been so far gone. It should also be a cross of thought in the perspective that the United Nations is preparing Norway for the world’s best country to live in year after year. So in that picture, in a number of areas, we have relationships that we don't have a lot of reason to be proud of, to say it a little bit cautiously. This proposal by the Christian People's Party focuses on one of these areas, namely young people. What is the signal for society and for us politicians to send out to young people who need help, when these are left to themselves with the label ‘disadvantage’? Many of these people have the opportunity to move forward with good follow-up and help. The issue, however, is not, as I see it, just what measures should help young people with mental disorders out of a situation of disability. In fact, the most important task is to ensure that young people with mental disorders receive the help, treatment and follow-up they need in order to prevent them from becoming unwell. That's how I see the proposal for a representative. To do this, the Right does not believe that the waiver is the solution. The solution is also to ensure that we do not have a deficient treatment capacity for people with mental disorders. This has been a challenge for a long time, but I can well allow myself to add that the challenge has not become easier to solve with what we believe on the Right side is the Government's allergy to private solutions and collaboration with private forces. The right supports the Christian People's Party in terms of the need to increase research funding for mental health. The right will increase the appropriations for research. It is no longer useful to rely on rest cuts in research and education policy, so we are concerned that more research needs to be done on mental health and the challenges involved. We believe it is important that the return services offered to people who are going to have a new chance are also opened up to young people who are suffering from mental illness. I perceive the department there that this is something that is already being developed, among other things. for the qualification programme. However, the problem for young people with mental health problems is not initially that there is a lack of reintroduction facilities, but that there is a significant need for better health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e597	I think there is a need to repeat that it is not the disability that is the problem, but the lack of follow-up of those who, with better help, could have avoided getting into a situation where you become addicted to disability. The disability benefit is probably one of the reasons Norway is selected for a country where it is good to live. It is by far the most serious, seafaring, for the individual, if you are young and have a mental illness, but do not receive health follow-up and assistance to get into work and activity. There's been a lot of numbers and discussion here. It is said that if you get sick and this is out of work, you shouldn't be sick long before you risk doing this completely. Then I got on my pult yesterday at least a document that I thought was more optimistic than what I've seen for a long time. That's report No. 2 for 2008, Work and well-being, from NAV. It's a new report that shows that the entire 67 pst. of those who have been sick for more than eight weeks, are at work after three years. They're new numbers. There are happy numbers that show that it actually benefits, and that it also applies to those with a mental diagnosis. I'm making it easy in the tables to find diagnostics based numbers, and it turns out that the numbers for this group are actually equal to the numbers for other groups. That means that the outlook for this group for follow-up, both on health and adaptation in the workplace, is better than what we have believed, even when we have not intervened very early. In the case of youth, it's just 1.5 pst. in the 18-29 age group who are unfit for work. In the population, it's 11 pst. But what is worrying is the large increase we have seen since 1997. It's 35 pst. Then there are many measures that have been mentioned here today, which are being put in place. I would like to point out some of the other important work done by the Government for children and young people who are in a vulnerable situation and who may be at risk of suffering from mental illness. It's e.g. Put in place a great deal of work in relation to violence in close relationships. What we know is that children and young people who experience violence in close relationships are at high risk. Suffering if violence doesn't go out on them sea, we know they're taking great damage from being a witness to violence. In addition, the Government has also set up the House of Barna, a centre of expertise to help children who have experienced traumatic experiences in such situations. Many of these measures, I hope, and the Government, will help catch up with some of the young people and the children who have been in such a vulnerable situation that they will face mental problems, and often drug problems, in their youth and in their adult life. It is also important what is now done and initiated in relation to the intervention at the drop-out in school, that you get alternative arrangements for training and schooling that are more adapted to what you think you are mastering - for mastering is important, so that you can be in good relations in your youth. I would also like to point out that part of the methodology that growth businesses and VTA represent can be a good offer also for some young people affected by mental illness. We know that it may take a long time to recover, and that you may need a work situation that is safe and protected for a period of time, where you receive systematic training that follows the pace you self-master. Several growing businesses report that they have had good experience in following up also young people who have had problems with both drug use, drop-out and, not least, mental health problems. In addition, I would like to point out that the Government of the Revised National Budget has also made use of funds for an evaluation of the PIA project, which we have discussed here before - a rehabilitation scheme specifically aimed at people with mental health problems, which will enable them to return to work. I look forward to putting in place more methodology in the reintroduction that is adapted to people with mental problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e614	First of all, as the initiator of the proposal for a representative that we are debating now, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Sundsbø, for the work he has done on this committee position. The background to this initiative is something I think all parties are very concerned about, namely that there are so many who end up in permanent disability because of mental disorders - and that at a young age. There is then a long career as a passive professional and missing a vitally important arena for both economic security and social networks. Of course, the disability in itself is not the problem. After all, it is a social safety network that should be there for people who do not have the opportunity to do normal work. However, it is a problem when studies reveal that one in three young people with mental illness has not received a real treatment provision according to their own experiences. Nor is there anything to cry out for when the OECD says that we get little results out of a lot of money spent on recycling. According to the OECD, the return to work rate is extremely low. I'm not going to make this debate a competition or a story of who has done the least, or who has done the most, in the different governments. Attribution policy is designed over a long period of time by changing governments, and this is what most of us have a responsibility. But we also have a responsibility to see if there can be new measures that should be tried out in order to deliver better results if possible, so that we can prevent in the future. In the proposals the Christian People's Party promotes in this matter, there are two main ideas. The first main idea is that we have to reduce the thresholds that each individual experiences on the way back - thresholds that in particular in this group can demotivate and pass on and make the re-introduction effort fail. These thresholds may be of an economic nature, but they may also be of an emotional nature. The economic thresholds we have addressed in this setting are income protection under medical and occupational rehabilitation and the excess for the necessary medical treatment. The Christian People's Party calls for a more social arrangement of the self-promotion system for drugs. This does not mean a general reduction of the percentages of the total population. We can't see that it should be a priority problem. However, for people with a very vulnerable economy, and who are also in a vulnerable situation in several ways, protection systems need to be improved. We are also concerned that everyone in the occupational rehabilitation system and in the administration has competence in how people with mental disorders experience the meeting with authorities, and that communication is such that each person feels that they are met with respect and not with solutions completed that go down their heads. We understand the Government's objection that it may not make sense to launch completely new skills enhancement programmes, but at the same time we ask that this be emphasised in the already ongoing programmes. The second main idea of the proposal is a stronger focus on the responsibility of the decision maker and the ability to make a difference. The decision-makers are the element of the overall public treatment chain that meets most people in this target group — and meets them at the earliest. That is why we want a reinforced effort in the field of general medical research and a commitment to a special centre of excellence anchored in general medicine. It is not a matter of «any» centre of competence. It's about a competence center with a different anchoring and a different focus than those that already exist. Competence centres in specialist health care are important, but at the same time we must recognise that 90-95 pst. of all young people with disabilities, such as reduced school performance, drop-outs in school, drug use, etc., never show up in specialist health services. With this I will address the proposals promoted by the Christian People's Party, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e631	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e634	Over the past six months, we've had this issue up several times, for example. in the form of an interview by the representative of Sundsbø, who is also the rapporteur on the matter today. This is an important theme. There are more than 10 000 ‘outside’ aged 18 to 30 young people, and only in 2007 more than 2000 new ones arrived in the youngest age group. This is a worrying development. It's important to point out that this isn't just going on psychiatry. It is also important for the young people concerned to get into the process early, because a long outreach is weakening self-confidence, so that they again lose faith in their own abilities and opportunities, which makes reactivation more difficult. With such an alienation, it is understandable that mental distress may arise, and it is alarming to see the large number in the younger age group that is beginning to suffer from mental illness. In any case, an outsidership has to be combated in several different ways, not only with early phase-in in relation to schoolwork, but also with adaptation to professional life. Today, we see more and more young people in the younger age group who do not deal with everyday life. The left has a strong sense of the proposal to introduce self-employment exemptions for persons under 40 who receive medical rehabilitation, participate in vocational rehabilitation, participate in qualification programmes or depend on social assistance as their main source. It is important to protect chroniclers, drug users and others with low income from excesses in medical treatment, while the healthiest of us must be able to accept a higher proportion of healthcare. The left is the co-rapporteur for one of the proposals that Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e649	Document No The 8 proposal involves four concrete proposals, and I choose to comment on them individually. For proposal No 1: The proposers request that the legislation on the qualification programme be reviewed in such a way that all those receiving a medical treatment offer for mental illness are included in the programme and stress that the qualification programme will also cover that group, provided that participants have been assessed for their work capacity and that close and coordinated assistance in the programme is considered appropriate to strengthen their job opportunities. I can assure you that this is entirely in line with the government's policy in this area. In proposal No 2 asks the proposers to introduce self-employment exemptions for persons under 40 years of age receiving medical rehabilitation, to participate in vocational recruitment, to participate in qualification programmes or to rely on social assistance as the main source of income. Here I record that the majority of the committee - all except the Christian People's Party - supports my opinions in the letter of 27 March. I have no further comments on the proposal. In proposal No 3 it is proposed to implement a general competence programme in the management of work and welfare in the field of mental illness, in particular targeting the first line service in NAV. In my opinion, this is already well under way in practice through the follow-up of the National Strategy Plan for Work and Mental Health 2007-2012. This action plan has been followed up by a concrete ‘Action plan with actions’, one of the actions being ‘Relevation and networking of labour and welfare management, social services and health services, etc.’, through what is called a modular model of skills enhancement. This action is now being implemented in the management of labour and welfare, and a significant number have already completed the training. As the majority of the Committee points out, the measures taken must be put into effect before any new assessment is made. As the majority of the Committee points out, it is important to continue the focus on better interaction between healthcare and labour and welfare management. Therefore, the Strategy Plan provides incentives for the development of good cooperation models between labour and welfare management, working life and healthcare. The size will be briefed on progress in the work on the strategy plan in the annual budgets. As regards proposal No: 4, propose that proposers increase the research appropriations for mental health and consider setting up their own mental health competence centre at a general medical department in one of the major universities of the country. The Committee points out the need to catch people with mental and mental problems at an early stage and that improving the first-line service will help to give young people a better opportunity to participate in working and social life. I agree with that, and that is also something that we actively follow up. I have been informed by the Ministry of Health and Welfare that, over a period of 10 years, the Roadmap of Mental Health has gradually placed an increased focus on mental health work in municipalities and prevention work in particular on children and young people, and that there will continue to be a focus on low-threshold measures in municipalities after the end of the escalation plan at the end of 2008. There is a great need for research into mental disorders and research into conditions that contribute to good mental health. In line with this, research in this area has been strengthened and prioritised high compared to many other disciplines in recent years. Some 34 million were granted in 2008. SEK to the Mental Health Programme 2006-2010 of the Norwegian Research Council. This is the largest grant for any medical and health research programme. In order to ensure the establishment of national centres of excellence in line with the needs of the service, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, in its mission document to regional health establishments, has asked regional health establishments to draw up, in cooperation, a comprehensive proposal for the national centres of expertise in the specialist health service for which they are needed and where they are to be located, as set out. the comments of the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party. Finally, let me say that I share many of the concerns expressed through Document No. The 8th proposal. I believe, through this rather thorough review of the four proposals, that we, perhaps with the exception of the issue of self-proprietary exemptions, have agreed and well started to implement many of the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e683	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3357]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e699	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e708	Over the past few years, awareness of critical issues has become increasingly topical - through concrete and serious issues that have aroused national perception and attention, both in the private and public sectors. For a long time in Norway, we have dubbed ourselves into a notion that the public sector is the innocent and the white, that everything is going right here. It's been a very naive performance. No one should imagine that lack of revelations and scandals means that there is only pure flour in the municipal or public bag. It is important to remember that all scandalous relationships are unimaginable everywhere, except where they were last revealed. Not least, we have seen several examples of municipal scandals where hundreds of municipal millions, or taxpayers' money, have been swept away or swindled. It is enough to mention the waterworks scandal on Romerike, the educational building in Oslo and the so-called Terra scandal. Often, there is an upsurge and digging press that reveals critical relationships, often after advice from employees. In many ways, therefore, it can be said that the public sector has lost its virtue. And I am convinced that several major scandals will be revealed in the years to come. At the beginning of May I had the joy of being present at the distribution of the Honorary Prize of Free Word. It went to the per-Yngve Monsen, a well-known warner, who warned of serious crime and corruption in the private company Siemens, who invented a significant number of millions of dollars they would never have had. The Monsen's history was very strong and thoughtful, and tells with all manner of clarity how important it is with a further strengthened legal protection for alerts. It is in this perspective that I want to pay great tribute to the Left, which promoted the proposal we are now considering. The only thing I want to regret is that it wasn't myself who took this initiative on behalf of the Right. The fact that I was delighted to be the case rapporteur was a little comfort for myself. It is a unanimous committee that points out that the new alert provisions of the Working Environment Act, which came into force on 1 January 2007, have provided better alert protection, and that this was a good step in the right direction. However, during Storting’s treatment at the time — as it is now — there was disagreement as to whether the legal strengthening of the alerts went far enough. I'm not going to invite any rematch on this topic now, but just stress as strongly as I can, that alerts play an important democratic role in today's society by revealing critical and illegal conditions in an enterprise. It is therefore necessary to make the best possible possible arrangements for critical situations to emerge and be brought to an end. And it has to be part of the corporate and organisational culture in both public and private activities that alerts are both legal and desirable. Critical aspects include not only criminal matters but also non-compliance with other legal requirements or prohibitions, breach of the ethical guidelines of activities and general ethical standards to which there is broad support in society. At the same time, however, the greater the interest the opinion has in the general public, or the more serious the facts you want to report, the more justified the warning is. Although the Left's proposal to create a warning unit in the Labour Inspectorate does not get a majority here today, I do not see the matter as lost. This is because I feel that the majority is not unwilling to look seriously at the possibility of further strengthening both the legal and practical protection of alerts. The majority point out, however, that they believe the time is wrong, that it is too early in the light of when the new law came into place. I respect that. In the opinion of the Court of Justice, it is desirable to give the various parties in an alert case greater clarity and predictability than at present in relation to the limits of freedom of expression. There are now a number of factors limiting the ability and courage to alert. I mention: employees' fear of retaliation, despite legal protection, from the employer, management or colleagues, and expectations or opinions about the loyalty of employees to their employer. These loyalty requirements often go far beyond the legal loyalty requirements. Some workers also do not know when they can or should say from here, or to whom. It is often a significant personal burden to alert. Therefore, at least I hope that we can later get a case where we look at the possibilities of making more practical arrangements for alerts. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal in the setting, from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e738	The representative Martin Engeset has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e741	I am pleased that the Committee is united that the amendments to the Working Environment Act, which was adopted on 16 November 2006, have provided better warning protection and that it was a good step in the right direction. Nevertheless, we see that the opposition parties largely re-use the argumentation from the treatment of Ot.prp. No 84 for 2005-2006. I do not want to go into that discussion, but I choose to deal with the specific proposal that is being discussed here, namely the creation of a warning unit in the Labour Inspectorate. The establishment of a enforcement body for alert cases has been dealt with by the Working Party which delivered the report ‘Staff freedom of expression’ in December 2005. This team concluded that it is not appropriate to establish a separate body or to extend the competence of existing bodies. The alarm code has had a very short working time, and it is not possible at this stage to draw any conclusions as to whether it is working properly or not. The working party therefore considers that it would be appropriate to wait a period to gain experience in the functioning of the warning protection system before evaluating the legislation. Any amendments or additions specifically related to alert protection should, in our opinion, be considered after such an evaluation has been carried out. That being said, I would like to add some comments to some of the principal issues raised by the proposal. The warning provisions of the Working Environment Act §§2-4 and 2-5 are private law provisions in line with e.g. the protection of the position. If there is a conflict between any of the provisions of private law, the individual worker must deal with it himself with his employer, and any action must be brought by the employee. If the worker is a member of a trade union, he may receive legal assistance there, but at the end of the day he is the worker who is the acting party. The role of labour inspectorate in this part of the legislation is limited to information on the legislation and any guidance on the procedures available to an employee to pursue his/her own case. The proposal to set up a warning unit under the Labour Inspectorate with powers to intervene, sanction and even prosecute would therefore dramatically alter the role of supervision in the field of private law. Furthermore, the proposal raises some fundamental issues about the driving rules of working life and their practice. The burden of claiming rights and of setting up their workmates may in many cases be high. This applies in alert cases, but also in other cases relating to the practice of law and contract works. However, individuals and trustees have taken this burden over the years and have contributed to our working life in which conflicts and disagreements between employers and employees are handled in a sensible way. Employee trustees, whether they have the title of trustee or guardian, have been given tasks and rights in different parts of our legislation to contribute to a politically desirable state of work. The social partners have also, through main agreements and agreements, built conflict management mechanisms that form the basis for an orderly working life. The creation of an alert unit in line with the present proposal will alter the role we currently have in the labour market by assigning the State, represented by the Labour Inspectorate, a role that is currently being dealt with in many ways by the social organisations. This is a line that, in my opinion, will undermine the foundation of an orderly working life. The fact that someone chooses to be unorganised and therefore has to take the burden alone, both economically and in other ways, does not have to provide a framework for how we, as politicians, put ourselves in a position to regulate conflict management in the world of work. We should be deterred from creating a separate system for dealing with one type of conflict, particularly when it is so strongly affecting the principle of conflict management in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e767	I agree with most of what the rapporteur said. It is important that warnings are accepted and that warnings about illegal acts become part of the culture of both private and public business. When the matter of warning was dealt with last, in connection with Ot.prp. No 84 for 2005-2006, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left were all about, among others. the following note: ‘These members fear that such a vague legislative wording on a requirement of soundness would lead to a lack of practical warning of critical circumstances. Furthermore, these members see it as very worrying that this legislative wording shifts the focus away from the critical circumstances of the enterprise and from the question of whether the alert has acted critically in the manner in which it is notified." The Progress Party therefore supports the intention of the present proposal for a representative. However, we believe that it has been a very short time since the amendment proposed in the Innst. O. No 6 for 2006-2007 came into force and it will be difficult to have a broad review of the effects of the legislative change before new measures are introduced. In the view of the Progress Party, such a procedure could contribute to the quality assurance of any new measures and increase the possibility of a safer and clearer situation for alerts and businesses. Therefore, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are together to ask the Government to return to the Stortinget with an evaluation of the effects of the legislative amendment in the Inner. O. No 6 after another one and a half years. Such an evaluation must be based on the experience of both employers and employee organisations. I address the proposal to which I referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e785	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e788	I agree with what Per Rune Henriksen from the Workers' Party said in his post. I would like to point out that when we dealt with the new warning provisions here in Stortinget, everyone, including the Council of State, was very concerned that we should follow the way these new provisions worked, that no one should attach any prestige to what the law is like, but that on the contrary, we should follow whether the law is in line with the intention, namely to strengthen the alert position, as the council said in the change of line at the time. That also means SV. We will follow up on how this law works. But it's too early to conclude that we're going to make changes right now. Then there are fundamental concerns related to a type of alert unit, which the representative Henriksen went through carefully. I would like to say that some of the things we have to follow closely are that the various departments responsible for this - the Labour Inspectorate has been mentioned, but there may also be other supervision, which the Health Inspectorate, the Credit Authority and others - have sufficient competence to provide a warning as to the advice they need in a difficult situation. At least those I've been in contact with over time who have been in such a situation, say that perhaps the most difficult thing is that someone needs to consult, precisely because one is in a difficult situation: it's often complicated conditions that are revealed, and people feel insecure. Now we have a new law that people are going to deal with, and that's going to be practiced - and thereby show how it can be used in reality. It's a lot of new to relate to. From the SV side, we will wait to make changes before the law has worked for a period and an evaluation has been carried out as to whether it is working properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e803	As it emerges from the vote, the Christian People's Party is very positive to what we regard as the intention of the representative proposal, namely to facilitate alerting in line with the provisions of the Working Environment Act. It has been demonstrated that in several cases alerts can give rise to significant career risks, and there may be clear personal costs related to telling about critical circumstances in a company. A warning unit with advisory and support functions can be a good tool to lift some of the burden from the shoulders of a worker and reduce the uncertainty in relation to the right procedure in cases of conflict. Today, however, we are not prepared to support the specific proposal as formulated. First of all, we are looking forward to a principle that the Storting should give detailed instructions on how a state budget should be organised. The size should and should provide for this, too, where necessary for policy purposes, but the concrete organisational solution may be left to the department itself, in dialogue with the general department. However, more important than this is that we look at the Labour Inspectorate as the representative of the authorities to comply with the provisions of the Health and Safety at Work Act to those who are so-called subject to the law, the employers. We would be happy to provide the Labour Inspectorate with roles that might conflict with their monitoring responsibilities and the right to intervene on an independent basis with the sanctions provided by the law. A mediator role or role as employee representative is, in our opinion, difficult to reconcile with the task of exercising authority. I therefore refer to the proposal of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, which has already been raised by the representative of the Progress Party. A faster evaluation of the effects of the new warning provisions of the Labour Environment Act than the government provides will, in our opinion, be well suited to both identifying needs and quality assurance new measures to safeguard the right to alert, not only in words but also in action.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e814	By virtue of the warning provisions of the Working Environment Act, the Stortinget has ensured much better protection for people who consider it necessary to warn about critical conditions at work. This may be our main source of the fight against corruption, environmental crime, care failure in our institutions, etc. We stand together here in Stortinget that we should have a strong warning protection. When the members of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the vote claim that their proposals for formulations in the alert regulations would provide a stronger protection than what was adopted, there is a claim that there is reason to ask questions about. It is also a little special to draw absolute conclusions about this so soon after the legal provisions have begun to work. As others have also pointed out in this debate, the proposal for a separate alert unit conflicts with the conclusions of the working group, which supports the report on the freedom of expression of employees. For all parts - this does not have to prevent the Storting from making other assessments, but there should be requirements for an assessment and assessment of experience. It does not take time for the proposers to do so. On the part of the Centre Party, we attach great importance to ensuring that we have a well-functioning warning protection that gives security to people in a situation where it is felt necessary to tell them about unethical and critical conditions in the workplace. We are concerned that good information is provided on the protection currently provided by the Working Environment Act, and stressed in the context of the 2006 case investigation the importance of monitoring this - by employers, by their associations and by the Labour Inspectorate, who have a significant responsibility for information. I have registered that there has been an upgrade of the information about the alarm protection, not least from the employer’s side, where we have seen that many municipalities have been specifically involved in this in a positive way. I think we need an assessment of how the warning provisions of the Working Environment Act that we have adopted work before we conclude that they do not work. Because that is, in fact, what the proposers are doing through their proposal. We need to get the evaluation that the majority asked for when Stortinget dealt with the matter. Then, as a consequence of the conclusions of this, we get to assess whether the provisions as they now stand in the law are good enough, and whether the information activities about them are to be organised differently from what we have asked for, to do them good enough. We have a too daunting basis for this assessment now, after the warning provision in the Working Environment Act has been working for almost a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e827	I would like to begin by commending the rapporteur, who, in my view, has presented the matter in an excellent way. Alerters play an important democratic role in today’s society by revealing critical and illegal conditions in an enterprise. The left is concerned that the conditions need to be optimised so that critical conditions can be brought to an end. On 1 January 2007, new alert provisions in the Working Environment Act entered into force. The left, however, believes that today’s law paragraphs are too informative about potential alerts and that the law does not provide the alerts with adequate protection. The legal provision provides protection after the possible reprisal on the basis of the warning. The function of the legal provision is currently preventative. It is a significant personal burden to warn about critical or illegal conditions in the workplace. Experience has shown that businesses that have been confronted with an unpleasant message from a warning have often chosen to respond to the alert instead of clearing up the problems. In most alert cases that have become publicly known in recent years, there have been internal persons in the establishment who have discovered actions that are at best incompatible with good business practice and, in the worst case, have been financial crime. In some cases critical aspects have been addressed internally in advance. Unfortunately, in most cases these people have been harassed and have suffered great personal losses, both economically, socially and mentally. The alerts may indicate that legal certainty and the possibility of practical assistance and support have been insufficient during the critical period at the time of alert. The left believes that we first get a real and effective alert protection by establishing a public entity that can provide advice and assistance to all parties involved while any investigations in a alert case are ongoing. Such a unit will contribute to increased legal certainty both for the employer and for the employee. The left is of the opinion that existing trust-chosen schemes, both trade unions and the current HMS system, do not function satisfactorily in such organisations. In small enterprises, this is an additional challenge, because there may be close links between management and trust leaders that make the situation more difficult. At the same time, trust voters may also be exposed themselves. The left considers that those who consider alerting about critical issues need practical and legal guidance for which the current work environment law does not open. Many alerts have indicated that in a warning situation they have lacked assistance from an unhindered person or entity. A warning unit will be able to ensure legal certainty for all parties involved during a critical period and to assist in clarifying critical circumstances. Such a unit, which should be added to the Labour Inspectorate, may inform about the alert rules, the risks of alerts, the absence of personal motives and the need for the alert to deal with verifiable matters. I record that the majority believe that the time is wrong, but I can assure both the Council of State and the Government that the Left will follow the case further, so that there should be no doubt in that way. Subsidy, the Left will support the proposal of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. I'm assuming that also the Right is going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e849	When the Government proposed new alert rules in the Work Environment Act, the first priority was to ensure the legal protection of alerts. Secondly, it was important to put in place procedures for alerting businesses, thereby giving rise to a cultural change in the labour market marked by transparency and communication on critical issues. In my opinion, the warning provisions do both of these things in a good way. The proposers point to another important aspect, namely the need for assistance and assistance from alerts on the road, and it is therefore proposed that a warning unit be set up under the Labour Inspectorate. I have great sympathy for the motive, but still have to disagree with the means proposed. It is obvious that the person who alerts, or who is considering alerting, often has a strong need to have places to turn to to get advice and help. It has therefore been important to make it clear - as the law does - that alerts can always and at any stage of the process address relevant professional or supervisory authorities, such as the credit supervision, competition supervision, pollution authorities, eco-crime or others. The Labour Inspectorate has a special responsibility to provide guidance on the warning legislation itself and can provide guidance on a case-by-case basis, which should help with the assessments and choices the alert himself has to make. However, the proposers wish to go beyond this and will have a warning unit in the Labour Inspectorate, which will actively engage and communicate between the parties, and which will also be able to instruct employers not to change the status of alerts, wages, duties or the working environment elsewhere, without informing the Labour Inspectorate in advance of the changes involved and the reasons for the proposed change. I am somewhat uncertain as to what the proposers believe the Labour Inspectorate should do with such information; it is not supposed that the Labour Inspectorate, for example. shall be able to set aside a cancellation? In any case, by imposing such a requirement, the Labour Inspectorate will have to decide on the warning in the favour of the employee before the matter is settled. By not giving such a charge, you will likewise take a stand against the alert. In my view, both parts are equally unfortunate, and will put the Labour Inspectorate in a very difficult situation. In my opinion, it is very important that the Labour Inspectorate confines itself to providing factual information, and does not express any ‘pre-approval’ of an alert or are put to judge between the parties. The warning legislation entered into force on 1 January 2007 and has thus not been in force for more than one year. Once the alert legislation has been in use for a period, there may be grounds for an evaluation to provide systematic knowledge of the existence of alerts, the experience of the rules and the functioning of guidance and enforcement. The Government is committed to closely monitoring the development of this important area in the future, and wishes to ensure and develop both legislation and public schemes, so that the tasks of the authorities should be dealt with in the best possible way in relation to the needs that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e864	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e867	I would recommend to the majority that the emphasis be placed on the part of the proposal that there should be a place where there is enough social and cultural competence of many enough people to understand what warning is. The reason I'm so intense about this point, which probably someone has now registered, along with my party, is my experience as Minister of Justice. We had legal rules in fines and buckets to fight violence in close relationships. It was a house fight for a while. Then we called it violence in close relationships. What made it a change? It was that the police got pioneers, at the Stovner Police Station in Oslo and the Bergen Police, who built up social and cultural skills to understand the difference between housewreck and violence. There has then been a systematic build-up through family violence coordinators who have made things that you have found difficult to deal with have been tackled. Warnings are about in the same situation. For a long time they were called anything but alerts. There's been a huge leap forward, because they're given an honorable status in all of our society. So the driving pressure in this -- as I see it, the Council of State perceives and acknowledges in a proper way -- is that it doesn't hold to have formal legal competence, it doesn't seem to be a clinically good lawyer. That's good, that's good, but you have to have someone who's so social and culturally wise that they get the job set, so that on the one hand you don't end up in the trap that makes a alert suddenly just had a problem with the boss -- then you're not a warning -- or that on the other hand you're away from what all the speakers have taken up here, that's a demanding situation. You don't get this because you have rules alone. You get this because you build skills. And if anyone wants to know what's my experience, I've now told it as heavy and as real as I can do it. Housewreck was not called family violence until there was someone who culturally understood what it was. Some were pioneers here. The rules we had had in buckets and buckets for a long time. And the pioneers who were before these in the police were called crisis centers. They knew things for decades before the authorities, including myself, took it over. I have chosen to take this lesson with me also when it comes to the question of alerts. So the Left is probably going to come back, because for me it's become that encounters with those who are exposed to problems in warning, and their fate, have made such a deep impression that I've almost decided that I'm going to hang on until I'm sure that the rules we have, not only are good rules that are well understood, as I feel that the majority - everyone - in this room will actually have, but that it is also the one in the practical life of social and cultural competence. Once I've met all of the alerts that basically regret that they've notified, and that even have stood up and told us their destiny, I think the whole storeroom should take this matter along as a reminder that here's more to learn. It's the Left's purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e883	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3358]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e899	The Committee has examined St.prp. No 42 for 2007-2008, consenting to Decision No 47 of the EEA Joint Committee 158/2007 of 7 December 2007 incorporating into the EEA Agreement Directive 2004/38/EC of 29 April 2004 on the right of citizens of the Union and members of their families to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States. The Directive regulates the right to free movement of EEA citizens and their family members. It brings together and replaces previous regulations and directives in this area. The Directive now provides for a single act regulating free movement of persons instead of many different regulations and directives based on different grounds of residence. Follow-up both for individuals and for the authorities in the different countries will be more transparent and easier. Administrative formalities have been reduced. The Directive removes the system of issuing residence permits for stays beyond three months and provides for the establishment of a registration system for EEA citizens. In the case of third-country nationals covered by the Directive because of family ties with EEA citizens, a residence card system is introduced to compensate for the current system of residence permits. These administrative arrangements involve clear simplifications compared to current residence permits. This Directive constitutes a further development of rights already deriving from the EEA Agreement, such as: a somewhat enhanced expulsion protection for EEA citizens and their family members. New schemes are also being introduced, for example: the permanent right of residence scheme for all EEA citizens and their family members irrespective of nationality. The right of permanent residence is granted after five years of prior legal residence in the host country. During these five preceding years, the EEA citizen must comply with the requirements for a right of residence, whether as an employee, self-employed person, a service provider, a self-employed person or a student. Today, the rights of the family members of the EEA citizen are derived from those of the EEA citizen. This means that if the EEA citizen is not entitled to stay, the family members will not be entitled to stay in the host country either. Today, the right of permanent residence is granted to workers and today’s rules do not require a period of five years prior to legal residence in the host country. These rules are continued in the Directive for EEA workers, self-employed persons and members of their families, but in addition other EEA citizens and their family members are allowed to stay after five years. New rights are also introduced for family members upon death or departure of the EEA citizen and upon termination of marriage or partnership. Family members are now granted the right to remain permanently even before five years have elapsed. The condition for such a right is that the members of the family stay legally in the host Member State. More stringent requirements are imposed on family members who are third-country nationals than on family members who are EEA nationals themselves. I would recommend the suspension, which is aimed at supporting the decision of the EEA Committee in the matter and incorporating the Directive on citizens of the Union and the right of their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e922	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3358]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e938	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e947	As rapporteur, I would first like to thank you for your cooperation. The Committee has a long way to go in common with reality on indoor climate challenges in some schools. The Committee also agrees that it is important for students to have a good working environment that promotes health, well-being and learning, and sees it inter alia. in the context of indoor climate deficiencies in some schools. The recent survey by the Education Directorate and the Health Department of schools and kindergartens shows that half of the schools surveyed do not comply with the regulations on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools. It's alarming. I am therefore pleased that it will be followed up by a comprehensive survey of all primary and secondary schools in the autumn of 2009. It is positive that there is a focus on these challenges, combined with proper supervision and accountability of school owners. The Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, considers that the current supervisory regime is sufficient. This, of course, does not prevent closer cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate, so that, for example, a common oversight of the working environment of pupils and teachers can take place. The Committee also points out that it may be a good idea that different supervisors, KSs and non-governmental organisations such as Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations should have a dialogue to learn from each other and to gain the best possible common knowledge in this area. However, the most important thing is to focus on the school owners. Municipalities and county councils have a significant responsibility to ensure a good working environment for students. It is about attitudes and competences, but not least about resources and willingness to give priority to a good school environment. In this respect, it must be said that many municipalities and county councils have done a significant job of cleaning up their schools. The interest-rate compensation scheme has thus been an instrument. This government has followed up this system since its introduction in 2002. The total envelope of DKK 15 billion was used up already in 2007, i.e. a faster use of the overall investment framework than previously foreseen. In this respect, I would also like to refer to the overall comment of the Municipal and Administrative Committee in connection with Innst. S. No 231 for 2006-2007, where, among others: asks the Government to ‘assess schemes that provide incentives for the continued upgrading of school buildings in the municipalities’. Of course, community economics is also important to enable school owners to invest in school. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party will continue to prioritise welfare, including local economy, rather than tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e962	The background to this proposal is the reality that the rapporteur claims the Committee agrees with, namely that very many pupils in their daily activities feel that the learning environment is too poor and that the indoor climate is terribly poor. I've been to a lot of schools myself, where the students tell me that they brought Paracet and Ibux at school to even go through a normal school day. Around lunchtime they have to take a couple of Ibux to last the last three hours. This is a description of reality that is quite serious and dramatic, and that is why the Progress Party has presented these three proposals to the Stortinget today. I think it is important to point out what the rapporteur said. About half of schools and kindergartens do not comply with regulations on environmental health protection. Nevertheless, the majority, with government parties at the head, conclude that the current supervisory regime is sufficiently good. This is a strange conclusion, because today's supervisory system is that it is the school owners themselves - in most cases, municipalities and county councils - who have to check whether they are able to comply with the training law. 9a and associated regulations to be complied with, related to the learning environment. And then it turns out that this system works so badly that half of the schools aren't approved. It turns out that we still have a maintenance run at the school of 55 billion kroner. Then I just think it's on the verge of being something eager to say that this is a supervisory system that works well. All the experience shows that it doesn't. We're in an emergency situation. In recent years, the Labour Inspectorate has closed 128 schools – if I do not remember correctly – because there is a danger to life and health. It's pretty dramatic. Therefore, as an urgent solution, the Progress Party will give the Labour Inspectorate the opportunity to enter and control the schools and to make specific recommendations to the school owner on the rectification, deadlines and then fines, if necessary, closure if the situation is too serious. Such drastic measures must be taken to change the attitude of the municipality of Norway, where they are obviously responsible for the individual student. If you're not satisfied, you have to complain, and then you have to go through the ordinary complaint system, and then we see what the result is. This works too badly! In the longer term, the Progress Party will have an alternative control system that not only controls the environment for students but controls the whole education system and the quality of education. That's what's written as the third point of the proposal in the vote. I want to mention it separately, because we have had some rounds in the Questionnaire and in the public debate, where the Council of State and others have pretended to shift control responsibilities from one body to another, i.e. from today's control system through the municipalities of the Labour Inspectorate, in itself will not improve the learning environment for the students. That's right, but that's why the proposal doesn't go into it. There is one of several measures to be implemented to improve the situation. I find it strange that the case rapporteur boasts a little about the fact that this government has followed up the interest compensation scheme. It is true that they have followed up the adopted interest-rate compensation scheme, which had a limitation in the case of investments. But they have ended the scheme instead of continuing with a system that has proven to be very successful, and that has given very many students a significantly better day-to-day school than they had before. It's an easy way to solve this, and it's through taking action from the state's side and saying that this is something you actually prioritize. Instead, the government chooses to borrow well back and say: we see the challenge, we understand that there are many students who use Paracet to get through school everyday, but we basically think that today's system works well enough. The Progress Party disagrees. I take this up with me the proposal that has been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e979	The representative Anders Anundsen has drawn up the proposal he mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e982	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work in the Committee. The indoor climate is a very important theme. About the day about a year ago, I had an interpellation on the same theme, which covered this quite thoroughly. For it is, as the representative Anundsen also said: when a study from the Education Directorate and the Health Directorate reports that 50 pst. of the schools are not approved according to current rules and regulations, there is a very serious signal that there is something wrong out there. The indoor climate affects a great many, and many are plagued by it in the learning situation. So it's a very important prerequisite for learning and therefore the ability to acquire knowledge. Research very well demonstrates that the indoor climate is a key element in the success of the school’s central task, the learning task. But on the other hand, it also means that there are large investments linked to this. There will be great obligations for municipalities as school owners. So there's no easy way to get around it. Nor is it the case that there is no requirement today. There are demands both through the Training Act and through regulations, so the challenge, as the rapporteur also said, is to get the school owners to see how important the indoor climate is. That there are requirements for both control and follow-up locally that need to be focused on the future, is what we believe in. It's about finding pretty simple and practical solutions out there in every school. It is therefore important for us to ask the Committee in its position that cooperation between the KS, which represents the school owners, and the Labour Inspectorate, which is the control body, and the Norwegian Asthma and the Allergi Association, which represent the people concerned. As I have said before, it is largely about finding solutions within the framework of existing building mass. Then a few more have to bring with them a good and creative process locally, if we're really going to get closer to the goal. Because that's not how you got the impression from the Progress Party, that everyone is satisfied with the state of the day. Rather, on the contrary, everyone is quite concerned about today's state. But we're going to bring the process forward in a rather complicated reality, and then I believe that it's one of the measures that can be important to get going, because the challenge is big. The reason why we do not go in to transfer this to the Labour Inspectorate is that we simply do not believe it brings anything closer to a solution. The Labour Inspectorate does not have the capacity today to follow up the tasks they have, and they will hardly be able to do anything but perform a few random sampling operations. So we're basically not much closer to the goal than we are to the system we already have today. As I have said, the school owners have duties. The county has orders that they follow up the situation at school, but we all know that it doesn't work. So once again, it's about finding measures that will work locally, and getting local involvement in what it takes to get a good indoor climate for the students. We hope that such a cooperation project might bring this a little bit closer to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e997	Students have their own work environment law. The Law of Education 9a states that each student has the right to a working environment that promotes learning, health and well-being. The law has to ensure that the students are well psychosocial, so they don't have to be bullied and harassed at school, and the students have the right to a good physical environment, i.e. good school buildings. Each school shall have its own work environment committee to deal with matters. Students and parents shall be in majority there. This is to ensure that students have their rights fully respected – not to be plagued, not to be bullied, not to have headaches before lunch due to poor indoor climate. We have supervision, and we have clear penalties in the law if there is a violation of the law and there is no follow-up to reported cases. We know that good construction, good indoor climate and the absence of bullying promote learning. Two days ago, the 2008 Student Survey was presented - a study that is important, because the students themselves tell how they experience the learning environment. There's a slight increase-- but an increase-- in the number of students who say they're bullying at school. Students are entitled to a safe working day. 24 pst. By the students, they say they're being bullied. Those who say they're being bullied seriously or frequently, they're 5.4 pst. 28.7 pst. is not satisfied with the air in the classroom and an equal proportion is not very satisfied with toilets, shower and wardrobes in the school. We have made a strong effort by establishing a law, and we have had an interest compensation scheme where 15 billion kroner have been spent on cleaning up school buildings. There has been an important contribution to building processes, to building important, good school buildings. This money has been spent on 1,130 schools. But we know that you are struggling with a significant maintenance kit. It is estimated that it will cost 40-70 billion kroner to get all the schools in good enough condition for the students. I was at a meeting with the Education Association in More and Romesdal a few weeks ago. There they presented some studies from county schools that show that we have a long way to go to make sure that all our kids will be satisfied with their legal rights. The local economy has been strongly strengthened during this government, but it is very close enough for all the students to have the building they deserve. I am very pleased with the commitment of the Council of State Solhjell to take the initiative to contact municipalities and county councils to contribute to better solutions in the field of school construction. A few years ago, it was decided in Stortingen to supervise the working environment of the county. At this point, SV believes that there is no reason why we should change this. It is such that teachers are supervised by the Labour Inspectorate, and it is extremely important that these two bodies cooperate well and closely. I want to ask the Council of State to follow it up so that he ensures that the cooperation between these agencies works optimally. It is important again to look at the work environment committees to be established at each school. These samples are important for ensuring students the rights they have to have a school environment that is free of bullying and a school environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. I would also like to challenge the Council of State to follow up on the work environment committees to be established at individual schools, so that they can function optimally in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1018	There is little doubt that a good school environment both physically and psychosocially is essential for creating an even better school. The student organisations say they receive alarmingly many enquiries from students who experience that the working environment is a barrier to well-being, motivation and good learning. No later than 8 May, we heard about Hokksund secondary school in Upper Eiker, which has had a bad indoor climate for many years. Several students have suffered health problems as a result, and per year. the current date the school is still not approved by the local doctor. Norwegian school conditions are sometimes so bad that the Labour Inspectorate has had to close down - I can inform the representative of the Progress Party that he remembers correctly - 128 schools over eight years. When the Labour Inspectorate takes steps to close a school, it is because they consider that there is an acute danger to life and health. There were high values of dust, fungus spores, bacteria and CO2 in buildings. And it's a big problem at several Norwegian schools. Adults and children who live in buildings with a poor indoor climate suffer from health problems. This affects the learning and learning quality of pupils and the working environment of teachers. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, today's supervision is not an obstacle to cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate, for example. through joint supervision of the working environment of pupils and teachers. I think one should consider in more detail whether there should also be a protection ombudsman for students who will focus even more on this. Such an ombudsman would be better able to take care of the school environment of the students. It is amazing that, at the same time as the increased attention to poor indoor climate in Norwegian schools, and when we know that the demand for maintenance on municipal buildings is in the billions class, as the representative of SV very well clarified here, the government chooses to close the very good and successful interest compensation scheme for school buildings, but if she was in opposition, I am absolutely sure that the conclusion would have been that we should not end it. I have to say, it's hard to understand, when you see the challenges you have. Like the government parties, we are also very pleased that that scheme has contributed funds to 1,420 projects divided into 1,130 schools. But unlike the SV and the government parties, we are not satisfied. The big question is, are we in the goal? If we are, there is good reason to terminate this arrangement. It was this sum we had set up when we introduced the scheme, but when we see that we're not in the goal, there's no reason to end this scheme, when the situation is as dramatic as it is in several schools. The Christian People's Party has therefore proposed and will continue to work for this scheme to be reinstated. We record that this is the student organisation’s biggest wish, both towards the revised national budget and towards the state budget for 2009. My wish is that if the government doesn't listen to the Christian People's Party -- what happens they do, but not always -- they might be able to listen to the Student Organization in that respect. Our goal must be that all schools have a satisfactory environment, a learning environment that does not interfere, but promotes the learning quality of the students and provides a good working environment for the teachers. Then we too will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1036	The two most important things in school are that we have fresh builds and that we have many and good enough teachers. The theme of this debate is fresh barley. Everyone really agrees. The purpose of the Advancement Party is shared by everyone here. The left is among those who do not believe in the tools of the Progress Party, but if you have to believe in some means, there must be a political dispute about this locally, and it is a case, for example, of course. about building a new one before you set up something old? And how do you prioritize your crowns? If we can start in the city in which we are now, Oslo, we were able, after systematically letting all the schools fall due because we thought that we should not spend money on construction but on the operation of the municipality's business, to build a huge aftermath between 1975 and 1995. After 1995, one billion dollars are spent each year in Oslo to prepare schools and build new ones. As I have visited 100 of them. 170 of these schools, I see what's useful, what makes a difference, and see that it's useful. But the crucial thing is that you have given priority as part of the school effort to make sure you have fresh construction. Then there's a different economy in the municipalities, and it's been for a long time. But what Oslo did at a certain point in time was to use old-day heirloom, that is, the return of power money, not sales, but returns, on today's heirloom, construction. There are many municipalities in Norway that do. The municipalities that do not have it should have experienced that the interest compensation scheme, which was also in place by the representative Dagrun Eriksen, had been continued. This small split layer between the state and the municipality, where the municipality has to borrow, but the state takes the interest rates, is a good arrangement. We know that when it was exhausted, only the red-green government found that it was exhausted. I'm going to be very cash: you thought it was much more important to distribute fruit and vegetables in schools in Norwegian municipalities than to extend the interest compensation scheme. The interest-rate compensation scheme is an exchange-rate mechanism in relation to the fruit and vegetables scheme. If you are first concerned with health, fresh construction through a proper interest-rate compensation scheme should be a priority in front of what I personally experience on my school visits, fruit and green scheme. But the government has learned that fruit and green are more important than anything else, it is more important than fresh barley. In other words, it was more important to use the money this year, approx. Ninety million. kr, on fruit and green, instead of spending at the base of 60 mill. kr in order to create a secure interest compensation scheme. Then a political choice was made. You made the choice that you just didn't want to have the fresh buildings, you didn't just prioritize it, even though you knew that this was something that worked. In meetings with many, including Those who have the school as their place of work, whether it's teacher's organisations or the student's organization, they found out, as it's said here, that the student organization had a top priority, which they put on top of everything else, and it was fresh construction. Clearly, then, a political signal has been given that it is not a priority. This fight is not primarily about whether we have oversight. We have laws, regulations and supervision in fines and buckets in this country, but what we need is that it is traded for them, and that it is traded locally. The local joint requires national support. The national support, will in relation to fresh construction, had continued with enough funds in an interest-rate compensation scheme, so that it had survived and could have been used by the municipalities. It would create solutions, something that everyone could have done. I find that the government had one priority: fruit and green--which in essence has now been reduced from a hot meal after the Kristin Halvorsen's mission across the country before the last elections. When it came to the matter, it became more important to set up a budget than to secure the interest-rate compensation scheme. So it's a little bit different budget, but in the government's overall investment, it was the priority that was made. There is nothing in this debate, in the fight for shifting responsibility to the Labour Inspectorate, which the Progress Party believes is supposed to conceal that there is a priority here that led to the failure to give priority to fresh construction first. The left noted that, so we had it in our alternate budget for the current year. We lost that heartily, like everyone else, when we met the massive red-green defence wall. It is such that if you have decided for something, you have seen the light regardless of whether everyone else thinks that another light is stronger. Here you preferred bananas instead of fresh barley. That priority I intend to tell the Norwegian people for a long and thorough time, until the government realizes that fresh construction is actually essential for students' health and for the health of everyone who is in school. I'm going to put it very clearly on behalf of the Left: fresh barley is more important than fruit and green. Fresh barley is more important than bananas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1049	The indoor climate, construction and environment are important for students, what they learn and how they feel. I have even met many elephants who have been able to tell us about the main work and lack of concentration in the school because of old, worn-out barley. I also think it plays a signal role in relation to what we want with the school, and what we signal to parents and elephants if they meet new, beautiful buildings with modern, good equipment or old, worn-out equipment. But I've also seen a lot of new, beautiful school buildings where one has moved in the enthusiasm that follows the elephants and teachers. I was recently in the Baltic Sea and I was looking at a nice, newly opened youth school. I was also a short time ago in Lillesand and looked at a school from the beginning of the 1960s that was quite worn out, but there was a new, modern and great school under construction, and I saw the enthusiasm that follows when one is running such a project. That's why we give priority to school construction. We have seen in recent years the upgrading of many school buildings around. Luckily, we also have equipped Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities with an economy that has enabled many to build around Norway as a priority, even though it is still a great aftermath that we have had with us from many years back. Current requirements for the physical environment of public and private primary schools and secondary schools are laid down in training laws §§9a-1 and 9a-2 and private schools §2-4, where it is not necessary for the schools to be planned, built, organized and run to take care of the safety, health, well-being and learning of the students. The school and school owners are responsible for ensuring that the requirements of Chapter 9a of the Training Act on the Physical School Environment are taken into account in the day-to-day work. The Ministry of Knowledge is responsible for the State supervision of the school’s activities and whether the school owners meet the requirements of the Training Act. The task has been delegated by the Ministry via the Directorate of Education to the County. If conditions contrary to the requirements of the laws are identified by a State supervision, the State may order the correction of the situation. In addition to ordering, the County Council shall provide guidance on how to meet the requirements and cooperate with school owners to ensure a good outcome for the students. The requirement for the physical environment of the schools is also regulated by the Regulation on the protection of the health of children’s gardens and schools under the Local Health Act for which the Ministry of Health and Welfare is responsible. The balls shall comply with the requirements, for example: have an approval which requires them to comply with the requirements set out in this Regulation, inter alia. design, indoor climate and cleanliness. The municipality as a school owner is responsible for the approval of the schools. It is the Health Authority in the county, under the law on State supervision of the health services, that is to supervise. I believe that the County Council, based on its statutory coordination function, will still be best equipped by the relevant state agencies to establish the necessary cooperation where several bodies are involved in the supervision of the municipality's service production. In this context, I would like to note that several statesmen have reported supervision in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate, where both students have their school environment and teachers' working environment. I am not aware that it has been reported that the current sharing of supervisory responsibilities has created problems related to these supervision. It is suggested that the control body should also control the quality of initial training, in addition to the learning environment. The establishment of an independent inspection body for initial training, which is responsible for quality control, will result in significant organisational, legal and economic consequences. In such a case, such a proposal should be based on knowledge that the very organisation of supervision is decisive for compliance with the laws. I'm not aware that this kind of knowledge exists today. We have as our main priority to make sure that the laws are followed. I think it's more important than the organization of the follow-up today. On behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Health and Welfare, TNS Gallup has carried out a study of the school environment. The examination is based on the requirement that all schools be approved. The mapping shows, among other things: half of the schools are not approved under environmental law. I have therefore, together with the Minister of Health and Health, asked the county councillors and the Health Service to actively use these results, and in particular to follow up the municipalities where they have done a bad job, in order to provide students with the school environment they are entitled to. I also mean that we have to do what the representative Jensen was about to do, simply follow up the establishment of a work environment selection at the schools. Then we have major challenges ahead of us in looking for a local economy that allows us to both clean up schools and assess other measures from the state and from the local point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1072	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1076	Everyone here knows that poor indoor climate for students leads to impaired function, poorer learning skills, poor productivity and reduced well-being and quality of life. Everyone here knows that 50 pst. of the schools that have been surveyed, had an unauthorised working environment. We all see a huge maintenance kit, and we know that many school buildings have both rot, moisture damage and poor ventilation that allows the students to suffer health problems. The only thing the government says is that they want to carry out a new survey, and they hope that the municipalities have done their job. So my question is, isn't this a typical example that the state owes to the municipalities, that the municipalities owe it to the state, and that the users, i.e. the students, become the big losers?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1083	Unfortunately, for many years it has been such that we have had a lag when it concerns maintenance in Norwegian schools. The interest compensation scheme that we have had for many years has been one state answer to that, but it is clear that the most important answer is to make sure that municipalities and county councils have good finances. Even with such a system, it is those who ask the main costs of maintenance, refurbishment and new school buildings around Norway. There's a marked difference here from the previous government, which made a cut in the whole of Skule-Noreg, to the change we've seen now, with the strengthening of the local economy that this government has implemented. In addition, we have to be busy checking and checking that the laws and regulations are enforced, because we know that there is also an increase in attention to it locally, and that an actual priority is to do something about the failures that are discovered.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1090	The council said something like that we were betting on school buildings--and almost so it sounded like he was building. I've heard that from former government councils in the kindergarten sector. I think we have to give some credit to the municipalities for this. I'm wondering two things. One is: does the Council of State have any evidence that the bet made under the interest-rate compensation scheme - which we all agreed on in the Storting and which was a successful scheme - has not stopped? So the main thing here is supervision and supervision, and how we're going to do this. I have a background from the family, culture and administration committee, the committee under which the county officials were placed. One concern we had there was whether there were enough funds in the county to be able to carry out all the supervisory tasks they have. It's incredibly important when it comes to local self-government, that we have enough supervision to get the results we want. And finally, does the Council of State wish to impose protective measures on the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1097	I agree with the representative, Eriksen, that who should have the honor, or for that matter's sake, is less important than the central one, that students should have an indoor climate and an environment in the school that allows them to have a good time there and, not least, concentrate on learning, acquiring knowledge, building and what the school is all about. The representative then addresses an important theme, namely supervision. I'm also busy that we have to follow up on whether there's actually the capacity of the statesmen to supervise, and we have to point out the key supervisory tasks within the education sector when we're going to do the priorities that we have to do there. I want to follow that up, and I want to see that the school building is also supervised in a good way. I have encouraged the county councils in Norway to create a student residence. Now, if we get it in all the states, and not just in most, it's going to be a big step forward. And then we'll see if we can evaluate additional systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1106	I think it's a little strange that the Council of State keeps building up expectations about the local economy, because he's actually talking to better people. Municipalities have been assigned so many new tasks that the local economy has not improved in recent years, rather it has declined. But the government is getting lucky with its project of constantly building up new expectations. I think the experience from Oslo is quite interesting. This is about getting the commitment started locally. Many municipalities have done a very good job, so it turns out that it's actually where we have to work. The interest-rate compensation scheme was, of course, important, but I think it is also important to launch the type of cooperation projects mentioned in the Committee's nomination. The question is: will the Council of State address it and launch such a project, so that we can get simple ways to follow this up locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1113	I agree that it's entirely decisive, whatever arrangements we have, that there's good enough local economy to prioritize the maintenance and refurbishment of school buildings. When the Right is talking about the poor community economy, you should listen, because they have good things to do and a long experience with it. The case is that one has a completely different investment in Kommune-Noreg in this period than when Right was responsible for the local economy. The representative is probably familiar with what is stated in the Soria Moria statement when it concerns the interest compensation scheme, and we have to come back to the budget with what priorities the Government will do in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1120	Often when looking for solutions in Norway, a local and national partner is involved. One example of what the Council of State has been involved in, and in which the entire opposition has been involved, is to build up the knowledge of the teachers, that is, the systematic training of teachers, which is part of the agreement of the Bondevik II government with the KS as a training organisation, and which the sitting government follows. The interest compensation scheme goes on the second pillar of the school. It's on fresh barley. It's a familiar grip to assume that the municipalities have their finances, but when the state comes in with something in addition, the sum of this is so good that it gives results. Now, former government councils have told us that they're using slide shows to convince the Ministry of Finance. I can trust the sitting council that I have also done it in its time - without commenting on the effect it had. I guess the government councils with great creativity will fight for what's important. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that the interest-rate compensation scheme is a fundamentally important mechanism for getting to grips with what we are all concerned with, namely, fresh construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1127	I'm going to take it further and think about it with slide screens and tools. I am also busy getting a great deal of insight into important matters in my area. I think it's basically important that the elephants in Norway have a good indoor climate and experience being in beautiful buildings where they can learn. So I'm busy with the tool. I am very much in favour of the means we have had for many years, which in our period we also have the benefit of cleaning up many school buildings, and on which there is a broad deal, and I am in favour of what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration on such a system further. Then we have to come back to the budget with the priorities, as the government does year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1132	There's two expressions I'm getting pretty tired of. It is ‘former governments’ and it is ‘Soria Moria’. Everything looks fine on the paper, but in real life the situation is actually quite different. As a municipal politician for 14 years, I see that funds for upgrading municipal buildings are actually at the bottom of the list. I also see that the Council of State accepts that our children should have a worse indoor climate than he himself. Is it, then, that the indoor climate of children counts less than that of adults, when government councils do not want the same control and control functions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1139	No, on the contrary. The children should always lead, and their indoor climate in the school is extremely important. It means a lot to how they feel and how they learn. That's why I'm so involved in it, because we've had the interest compensation scheme, there's so many municipalities and county councils set up with the majority of the money and prioritize their own building mass and their own school buildings. So the question is, how do we best supervise it? There is my opinion that it is not by creating a separate instance or by transferring it to another instance. We want to achieve the best by following the system we have today, but make sure that it is done in a good way, that mistakes are corrected, and that priority is given to doing something with the worn-out school buildings from national authorities, and not least from local authorities, who are responsible for it. The reason why we're going to do this is because the students are going to be in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1144	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1150	Mushrooms, moulds and mortars falling off the walls, and animals crawling on the walls are status at schools in Norway today. It is only tragic that students and employees get sick when they go to school. Bad indoor air has to take a lot of the blame because asthma has become the new people's disease. Many of our schools have been patched up for years. The large refurbishment projects have been repeatedly postponed due to dwindling municipal bodies. When the municipalities finally have some money between their hands, they have to pay disproportionately much for restoration. It is expensive to clean up in hours, but the municipalities have no choice but to poke out what is required. Our kids need fresh air to learn. It is known that the indoor climate of several primary schools in Rome is so poor that immediate action needs to be taken. One example is that the co-operation committee at a school and a principal have engaged a consulting firm that has produced a report. The report was not initially released, but the secret stamp of the press and the public. And why? Probably because what's in it is so serious. It has, as I said, been a lot of talk about abnormally high sick leave, and that it can be due to poor indoor climate in Norwegian schools. Many parents have started signing campaigns and threatened to keep their kids at home from school until something was done with the miserable indoor climate. Parents complain that the kids are exhausted after returning home from school, and that they often have to go to bed. Bad indoor climate thus affects the social lives of young people, and the most important thing is that, in addition to the fact that learning is now under way, it also affects health. Another example is parents and students who went on a torch to a town hall in Rome, hoping to influence the politicians in the budgetary process to provide the necessary work on the rehabilitation of their school. After meeting the rapporteur and the other politicians with slogans such as ‘Let’s let go of headaches’ and ‘We need fresh air to learn’, the local government adopted upgrading the school. But that's not how it should be! This case is a gruesome example of how society allows itself to treat our kids. If there had been anything other than a school, the Labour Inspectorate would have encountered and imposed immediate repairs, or closed the site immediately. We can't postpone this important question. It is anyway more than long enough to wait for all those who have an out-of-date school as a learning and workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1167	I am aware that it is Friday, and I will try not to provoke a new debate, but there are a few things that have emerged here that I think it is important to comment. The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, said that first, everyone is concerned about today's situation. The challenge is that it does little. The concerns of the Right in relation to the capacity of the Labour Inspectorate are resolved by the proposal of the Progress Party II, which we ask the Government to come back to funding and implementation, so that is not an argument against the proposals of the Progress Party. So I always listen with special attention when the representative Lena Jensen has the word, because I've previously had the pleasure of referring from her posts from her time in opposition, and the posts are somewhat similar. At the time she also sketched many of the same problems that are in the school today, but then she also had the solutions. Now she kind of keeps the same posts, but she's dropped the solutions. I think that's a little worrying, because when you're in position, you should also strive to implement the solutions that you're supposed to have in the opposition are the right ones. I also find it a matter of concern when the Council of State both in the main post and in the reply: I am concerned about the student's working environment - that's why we have had an interest-rate compensation scheme. But it's well on the verge of misleading, because it's not because of this Council's concern about the indoor climate that we have had an interest-rate compensation scheme. It was launched in the previous grossing-up period. This Council of States could contribute to its commitment if he had extended the field of action to the interest-rate compensation scheme. Then he had kept his words. But what's happening now is kind of an attempt to take credit for something you don't have the credit for. It is also reinforced by the state council saying that we -- and then I guess he means the government -- prioritize school construction. Then there is the interest compensation scheme, which has been concluded, to which it is referred, and then it is the reinforced local economy, and now there are major discussions about how much that local economy has actually become stronger. But now leave it. What the Council of State is doing is shifting responsibility to the municipalities and believing that it is the municipalities that are going to carry out the work in the field he thinks is important as a minister of knowledge. I want to draw attention to the fact that there is no incentive on the part of the state for any municipality in any context to spend money on school buildings - nothing. The interest-rate compensation scheme was. This government has effectively put an end to it. It doesn't sound so bad when we say "bad indoor climate", there's bad air, etc., but it's more than that. It's serious. It leads to weakness, it leads to fatigue. It can lead to asthma and allergies, and it can lead to severe cancers. This is not an area in which one should be paralysed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1180	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3358]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1188	The increase shall now be added to the number of cases. 1-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1196	The President would point out that the proposal from the Progress Party, which has been included in the option on page 3, has been withdrawn. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:56 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1214	During the debate, Mr Kjønaas Kjos presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. That is proposal No. 2, which is distributed in the hall. The president noted that the proposal from the Progress Party on page 3 of the configuration was not taken up. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The amount of training aid granted to persons with disabilities is raised to DKK 100000 per year. year with effect from 1 July 2008.» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:62 [[2007-2008]] The voting boards showed that, in the case of alternative voting, 72 voted for the Committee's recommendation and 23 votes for the Progress Party proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 13.08.55]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1236	President! I voted wrong. I voted in favour of the vote, but should have voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1241	The result is that 71 votes for the Committee's recommendation and 24 votes for the Progress Party proposal. Nevertheless, the proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1249	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 2 is being taken up to voting. The proposal reads: ‘The government is asking the following measures to reduce the number of people who are ill due to mental illness:1. Ensure that all those who receive a medical treatment offer for mental illness are entitled to a state income insurance at the level of the qualifying benefit during the treatment period. 2nd@item: inlistbox Introduce self-employment exemptions for persons under 40 years of age receiving medical rehabilitation, participate in vocational rehabilitation, participate in qualification programmes or depend on social assistance as the main source of income. 3rd@item: inlistbox Increase the research appropriations for mental health and consider establishing a dedicated centre of competence for mental health at a general medical department in one of the major universities of the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1314	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right and Left The proposal No will first be voted on. 2 and 3 from the right and left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of an alert unit under the Labour Inspectorate. The unit should be a warning point receiving and recording alert cases. The unit should aim to enter into a dialogue situation with the parties involved, but should also be empowered to intervene in establishments, to provide clarification on the circumstances in which sanctions are being notified to the employer.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the unit after two years to see if the unit is functioning according to its intention.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1345	Proposal No. 1 is going to be taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide an evaluation of the effects of the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act on alerts in autumn 2009’.» The President will believe that the Right and the Left now want to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It'll be confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1392	During the debate, Mr Anundsen presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Stortinget, the Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals in order to give the Labour Inspectorate temporary control responsibilities for the working environment of pupils, as set out below. training law cap. 9a, as well as powers to impose and sanction breaches of directives. II The Storting asks the Government to present its own case to the Storing for the implementation and financing of such temporary change. III The Government asks the Government to present its own case to the Stortinget to establish a separate control body for initial training, which shall be responsible for checking the quality of initial training, including the learning environment of the students, cf. training law cap. 9a, as well as the competence to require the school owner to correct and sanction them in the event of a lack of follow-up of the order.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:77 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-05-23.ana.ud1773e1430	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
