ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e39	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after submissions by the main speakers of the lots and up to five lines after the submission by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e48	Now we're going to deal with a legislative change in Ot.prp. No 15th It is proposed to amend Section 27A of the Road Act so that tolls can be used for measures for the operation of public transport. This is a very important change, which will enable urban areas, initially Oslo and Akershus, to deal with their traffic challenges in a much better way than has been possible so far. This setting contains a forward-looking and environmentally very good policy. For those of us who are concerned that we are not just going to use all the space in our cities to build roads, this is a good day. The drivers pay for better capacity on the roads when they are involved and strengthen the collective offer. This amendment of the law will bring about a real boost for public transport. The new scheme will have a positive impact on traffic and the environment. The proposal suggests that the use of tolls for the operation of public transport should be part of a plan for a comprehensive and coordinated transport system in an urban area. It is a recognition that transport problems cannot be solved by road construction alone. The majority of the suspension shares the Ministry’s view that strengthening public transport, traffic regulation and investment in a road network that reduces local environmental problems and increases overall costs is necessary to achieve the objective of efficient and environmental transport in urban areas. It is worth clarifying that city-wide bombings fall within a derogation from the EEA Council Directive which regulates annual tolls, the use of tolls and user charges for freight and therefore does not apply to these types of areas. It is also worth noting that the first relevant application, which is Oslopackak 3, is of this particular species, and that there will therefore be no problems with ESA. The initiative for this proposal to amend the Road Code came through the examination of Oslopackakt3 at the local level. A request was made from the Municipality of Oslo and Akershus County to use tolls for the operation of public transport. On this basis, the Municipality of Oslo and Akershu County have taken a decision to do just that. The majority favour the politicians in Oslo and Akershus who have been foresaw in their way of thinking about transport policy. The paradox may be that in Oslo it is transport agency Peter N. Myhre, of the Progress Party, who is seeking to get this change of law through, while here on the Stortinget, the Progress Party is the only party that is clearly in favour of this change. This proposal is referred to as a modern way of looking at traffic and transport policy. Modern thinking also respects the principle that those who pay tolls get something left, so that we can keep this so-called utility principle. By increasing the number of passengers on public transport through a strengthened offer, capacity on the roads can be released and greenhouse gas emissions reduced. Fewer commuters on the roads will be particularly beneficial for business and other useful traffic that must use the roads. Today we have a climate settlement here at Stortinget. The batches state that the polluter pays principle is important. This proposition provides the basis for precisely this in urban areas. The polluter is involved in paying for measures that reduce emissions. There's growing excitement among people that we need to have restrictions on private car use, and that we need to find ways to support public transport. Finally, I would like to stress what the Council of State writes in its letter of 8 January 2008 to the Committee: ‘I can confirm that the present legislative proposal will not prevent the assessment of solutions for the management of toll resources for the operation of public transport other than Ot.prp at a later stage. No 15 is going to add up. ‘... This is important if we are to be able to meet the wishes of local authorities for a single transfer system for the money to flow into the operating part of public transport. The majority are concerned that local authorities should manage the use of toll funds for the operation of public transport and that funds should be made available in a simple and predictable manner within the framework of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e79	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e82	The change in the law opens up so that this can be done in cities and urban areas. Where does the Labour Party border go? How many cities and urban areas can fear that they will have schemes like this, where will the drivers pay for the operation of collective action? How long is such a measure planned to last? As far as I've observed, it's a little about it. Does this mean that when you now also bind part of toll payments to the operation of collective actions, does it actually have to be continued and maintained forever? Is it so to understand that this is an opening for permanent bombings? Finally, what is the main rationale of the Workers' Party? I have noticed that in the submission to the National Transport Plan that we have received today, the department itself says that carbon pricing in the largest cities will result in some reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. But is it not the decisive point from their point of view that this is a major reduction measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e89	Unlike the representative of Sortevik, I don't see any fright at this kind of scheme where we can give a real boost to public transport. It is clear that Blackevik's party trap, Peter N. Myhre, also does not look at this with horror. I met him myself in several debates during the election campaign, where he boasted of this grand scheme and was proud of what the politicians in Oslo would now be able to do for their city. For me, it is important that this contributes to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Those who are going to drive more with public transport in the future thanks to this scheme would probably use a car instead. This means that we are now in favour of contributing to reductions. I think that's important. Then we have to have a confession that we can't build enough roads to solve traffic problems in the big cities. We've seen that from a lot of other countries, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e96	I want to follow up where Arne Sortevik ended up, i.e. it was part of the question that the representative, Mr Wickholm, did not answer: what is an urban area, and where are the limits now for the majority parties in relation to using tolls to finance public transport? We know that there are many cities in Norway, and it's become very many small cities. Where are the limits going? That's the one question. The second question is: in Oslopackakt 3, which is a good agreement in the opinion of Højre, it is also the case that collective travellers should also contribute to the financing of Oslopackakt 3 through a share of the ticket price, which agrees to finance Oslopackakt 3. It is not, then, a requirement of this law. Does the representative, Mr Wickholm, think that it would be natural if one were to extend this to other cities, that one should also expect the collective travellers to contribute part of the ticket income?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e103	Now the collective travellers are constantly contributing to their own offer through the very ticket they are paying. This is just about a distribution of the ticket, so it's very natural that they pay for the offer they're using. As for the question of what is an urban area, this is not an initiative that comes from the majority parties, where we have asked the Municipality of Oslo to implement this scheme. This is the Right Party and the Advance Party, which has the City Council power in Oslo, which has sought to establish. It is a principle that we have agreed on here in Stortinget, that it should be based as much as possible on local initiatives when establishing toll packages, and that will also apply to this type of law. So, of course, it's a prerequisite that you have a traffic base that can generate enough revenue to make it interesting to do this. Then it gives itself a little bit of what is big enough urban areas so that this can be a law that is interesting to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e110	We agree with much of what is in this setting, except at one point - Wickholm was in on it at the end of his article. It was about whether local authorities should be able to control the use of toll revenues. The right, Christian People's Party and the left have proposed this. Why will the majority parties not vote in favour of this proposal, so that it can be implemented immediately and there is no uncertainty about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e115	The representative Tenden may have noticed that in my speech I underlined the answer given by the Council of State to the Committee, ‘that the present bill will not prevent ’ from having a different money flow system than is usual for today’s bombings. This means that there will be the kind of solutions that local politicians in Oslo want, but those solutions probably don't belong in a legal text. When you have made it clear that the law does not prevent that type of scheme, you will get back and describe in a staging proposition - which is the document that will give us a clearer picture of how the whole package will work - how the systems should work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e122	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e126	The government parties are changing the law today - so that the drivers have to pay even more to get even smaller roads. For the longest time, the Road Code has been amended so that tolls from drivers are used for investment in fixed installations for public transport - railway, tramway and metro. A further change in place shall now be required to ensure that tolls can be used for the operation of public transport. It is important to remember - as is also done in the proposition - that the law change in order to use road pricing for the longest time is in place. It was adopted by the Stortinget in 2001 - against the votes of the Progress Party and the Right. But the government can do so quickly - and without asking the Storting. With today’s amendment of the law, a comprehensive and comprehensive regime will be created to provide more tax relief for car users and more public intervention aimed at car users. Such policies and developments are opposed to the Progress Party. We will therefore vote against the proposal. I would like to address the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities' own motion for a resolution and the proposal that we are with the Right. We understand that there are several reasons for the bill. First to the transport: the claim that it is not possible to build enough roads into the largest cities, we think is crazy. I refer to the SINTEF Report on the Environmental Impact of Better Roads, from February 2007, where it is claimed that the only Norwegian city where traffic problems may not be able to build up can be Oslo. The premise for the Oslo assessments considers the Progress Party to be flawed. We believe that an efficient ring road system outside and beyond Oslo can ensure good transport efficiency and safe and environmentally friendly road-based transport. For the Progress Party, good roads are also important for good public transport. So for environmental reasons: shifting from car use to public transport reduces CO2 emissions. We believe the focus on CO2 is one-sided and exaggerated. Better roads also provide better accessibility and lower emissions of waste gases. Tax and tax measures should focus on renewing Norwegian car fleets, keeping the average age of the fleet low and getting energy-efficient, safe and environmentally friendly cars and buses on efficient, safe and environmentally friendly roads. An argument is also - we think - to get money for the state. That the state needs more money paid by the drivers in order to facilitate an efficient and attractive collective offer, we believe is wrong and unreasonable. Norway is a very rich country. Parts of the wealth should be able to keep the infrastructure up to date - the road network - efficient, safe and environmentally friendly. This is a task for the state, which already provides itself with serious taxes and charges related to car and car use. The draft new national transport plan - as we have received today - says, on page 11, on tolls: ‘In recent years, tolls have been a key element in the financing of road development in Norway. ‘... It goes on to say - still on page 11 - that ‘the use of tolls is still necessary. The full potential for tolls should be exploited in traffic areas, where appropriate. There must be room for government funding for projects in the districts which cannot be financed by tolls. ’ This is a clear speech from the college. People in cities have to pay for road construction elsewhere. There is more toll tax in cities - and it can be permanent. To get rid of the toll tax, we have to get rid of this government. Public purchases of collective services should be made with public funding and with public budgets. Most importantly, however, in the view of the Progress Party, the infrastructure - the roads - is good, so that the buses also arrive efficiently, safely and environmentally friendly. That the drivers pay through toll taxes, rush time taxes and their own road pricing taxes for the operation of the railway – including tram, metro and urban railway – rejects the Progress Party. We therefore reject the bill. In fact, this amendment opens up the possibility of making tolls permanent without using Section 7a of the Road Traffic Act on road pricing, on the grounds that collective action must be provided. We don't think this will be limited to Oslo either. This could be the rescue for Project Citybane in Bergen. Bergensers, look out: here comes more toll tax. The state collects NOK 55 billion in taxes and taxes from the car and car use. In 2008, road development, with DKK 5 billion, is also financed through toll taxes. I would like to quote again from the proposal for a new national transport plan: ‘With insufficient State resources, the need for alternative funding is growing. ‘... It's high time the state took its bills. What's this government going to do next? Is there a toll tax in Oslo to build Dalsfjordbrua? What is the next toll tax financing task charged to drivers? For this government there are no limits - unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e175	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e180	The representative Sortevik said in his post that the drivers would pay more for even less. I wonder if the representative Sortevik does not see that when more people travel collectively, and when fewer people use the roads to get back and forth from work, it becomes better capacity for those who actually have to use the roads. For example, businesses, taxis and entrepreneurs depend on the roads to get back and forth between different tasks. Does not the representative of Sortevik see that this will be an advantage for these groups? Then I also wonder if the representative of Sortevik sees that it may seem somewhat confusing what the Progress Party really believes in this matter, when it is the Progress Party's Transport Agency who is seeking to introduce this package and get the law to be amended, while the Progress Party on the Stortinget is voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e189	Now it is clearly less confusing for the members of the Advance Party than for the representative Wickholm to have two thoughts in his head at the same time. It is still very clear that the Progress Party in national policy will have State funding. And it is well known that there is a majority in Oslo City Council that has instructed the City Council parties to implement a particular policy. So to what's a little bit of the core of the disagreement. We still believe, as I just said in my post, that it is actually possible to build a well-functioning road network to and around Oslo, which has the capacity for both car traffic and public transport, especially bus-based public transport. We actually think that's possible. In our view, it is also a government task to ensure that good transport infrastructure is built into and around the major Norwegian cities. It is enough to refer to the draft representative on state funding, which was rejected earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e196	There are many mountain people who often feel that when they get to Oslo, they get short, because people who don't understand what they're talking about. But in this case, I don't think it's so strange that most people in Oslo don't understand what they're talking about. So if you look at what this case is about, it's about the good principle that local democracy in Oslo must be allowed to choose what is going to happen to Oslo. Oslo asks to spend money on public transport because it is good for the drivers in Oslo, and because it is good for all the collective users in Oslo. But Arne Sortevik is trying to prevent this. And it can't be that way, President, that Arne Sortevik will deny that the Progress Party has been involved in negotiating this agreement, which is what Oslo and Akershus have asked for?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e203	Almost Blackevik has to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e206	Yes, President, he will. It's nice to hear the tribe's howl - if Parliamentary is allowed to say so. Blackvik is fully aware of what's being negotiated, but you can make it as charming as the asker tries to do it, if you take away the starting point. In fact, this government is pushing out municipalities in Norway because it refuses to take the bill for the development of national infrastructure. And again: I refer to what has come today, the National Transport Plan. On page 86, it says: ‘With insufficient State resources, the need for alternative funding is growing. ‘... That's the way it is. This government is running blackmail. I repeat that the voters have, I think, sorted out very well that there is a political majority in which the Progress Party does not form part, which, through democratic urban governance, has decided to support a solution - which the Progress Party has actually voted against and opposes. And we're doing our best to get state funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e218	A majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, commends the Oslo politicians for being forward-looking on the proposal they have put forward, where, as has been said by several, the Progress Party is present - a forward-looking proposal. I would like to ask the representative of Sortevik: is it true that if the Oslo politicians had not been as far-sighted as they are, and if the majority had not said what they said today, we would not have had an Oslo package of 3, that is. that at the moment they had been without funding a significant number of billions of dollars to solve Oslo's problems? The question then is: has the Progress Party entered in its alternative budgets in the future that the totality of Oslopackak 3 should be financed by the State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e225	Earlier today, the representative Sahl has praised the Advance Party for a strong effort to come up with new funding tools in many different ways. We've done that, and we're going to keep doing that. The term 'forward 'is interesting. We believe that it is for the people of Norway and for the Norwegian economy that we are actually investing more government money in Norwegian infrastructure. It's a far-sighted use of oil wealth. In fact, that use is more far-sighted than playing away money on the stock exchange abroad. We have lost approximately the last 17 days - as far as I have got today. $40 billion. 40 billion would be about enough to cover the delays in road maintenance in Norway. But we've chosen to play gambling on the stock exchange abroad, while actually we're playing a hoarse game with traffickers on Norwegian roads in terms of life and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e232	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e235	With regard to playing on the stock exchange abroad, I guess Norway has made a lot more billion through its management of the State pension fund - abroad than we have lost. It's a little strange that every time the stock exchange goes down, it's about how much you've lost, while every time it goes up, we're happy and happy with the management. But it was a siding. Today, we were to lay the groundwork for legitimizing the broad local consensus on Oslopackak 3. There is an opening for tolls to be used for the operation of public transport. The Oslo area, the capital area, is in a special position in Norway. Several hundred thousand people are to be transported out and in by Oslogryta every day. We have seen and heard the consequences of the train stop when there are 80,000 angry commuters who are raising themselves above the NSB, although it is often the railway station that should have been blamed. We have seen the consequences of traffic chaos, closures, etc. That is why it is necessary to think completely in the Oslo area, and I think the politicians in Oslo and Akershus have certainly done so. When you look at the frameworks now laid down in the national transport plan, it is utopian to put Oslopacket 3 in place without any kind of toll financing. Here we're talking about a package of over 50 billion dollars. I think one must realize that the drivers and the collective travellers must be involved in financing this in Oslo. It will also support the Right. We have huge traffic challenges. We have a lot of tools that need to be used to get Oslopackak 3. Then it's about the development of public transport. But to benefit from it, one also depends on having good roads. For the Right, it has been particularly important to put in place new Mossevej and new E18 Oslo-Asker. There are two of the country's most dissidently trafficked roads, which it is necessary to build out if one is to move on, while one continues the railway development and does not abandon plans for new double-track Oslo-Ski and other things. The right will agree that one in Oslo and in Akershus can use tolls to operate public transport, but we do not feel that this should be a general law access, as it is now added. The government and the red-green couldn't suck. Here Oslo and Akershus ask for a special access to use tolls to operate public transport, and then the Government responds by giving everyone access to it, in all urban areas of Norway. It's the right-hand side. We would have liked a special law that would have stressed that this new principle would be an exception on the occasion of Oslopackak 3, and not a rule that could be used in other contexts. We therefore propose to limit the amendment to Oslopackak 3 and Oslo/Akershus. The Right Party and the Advance Party are also united in the view that road pricing or rush time charging is a bad idea. As stated in the setting, the legal basis is clear for the road pricing. Since we are against it, it is also natural to ask the Government to present a case concerning the repeal of §7a in the Road Traffic Act, which is the legal basis for road pricing. We also join with the Christian People's Party and the Left in a proposal asking the Government to allow the tolls used for the operation of public transport to be channelled directly to a regional or local administration company. I hear the case rapporteur, Mr Wickholm, points out that this could be possible today. I would also encourage the parties to the government to vote in favour of that proposal, since it is in line with what the parties to the government believe. I am addressing those proposals where the Right is the co-rapporteur. So one explanation of vote: because we have put in this about Oslo and Akershus as an addition to the law and not as an alternative, Right will vote for the number of Romans I and our own proposal, no. 4, as an addition to that. That doesn't mean we open up a general access, but we have to see this in context. Right only wants to use tolls for the operation of public transport services in the context of Oslo Package 3 in Oslo and Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e259	The representative of Trond Helleland has promoted the proposals to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e264	Today we got the result of the climate agreement here on Stortinget, and the Right has been looking for the red-green parties for a long time and accused them of pursuing a little ambitious climate policy. The agreement states that there should be a principle that the polluter pays. With the kind of arrangement we add up to here, that's exactly what's happening. I wonder why Greece does not believe that this is also a good principle for urban areas other than Oslo. If you want to introduce this in Bergen because you locally think it's right for your area and your city, why should it just be Oslo to have this kind of arrangement, seen from the Right Place?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e271	The right will decide on any application from Bergen. I doubt that there will be such an application, but in that case the Right will of course decide on it. That's why we would have wanted a special law-- because we see that there might be a couple of cities in addition to Oslo that could have taken advantage of such an opportunity. But, as the representative Sortevik pointed out instead, it's actually the Oslo area that's the only area in the country where you can barely build roads to get out of all the traffic problems. I think it should be limited to Oslo. But if local democracy and the local parties in major cities in Norway sit down and make an agreement à la Oslopak 3 or apply to the department for permission, I believe that then you have the template from this amendment, and you could have a special law attached to each case. But we want to keep this to a minimum, and I think Oslo is the only area that should have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e278	With respect to reporting--what Trond Helleland says, is not in touch. It's the way that toll projects like this always come to the Stortinget -- you always get the chance to vote down a toll project if you want to do it on death and life. But what the right now does is send out a signal that says right in Stavanger and Sandnes really shouldn't expect to be able to finance a collective effort with tolls. Right in the Bergen region can't really count on solving its traffic problems, which are going to accumulate over the next decade, by pulling in tolls and using them on public transport. If the Right wants to appear as a party for local democracy, why do they want to send out such a signal to the Right people in both Bergen and Stavanger?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e287	Now I think I know the Right in Bergen and Stavanger a lot better than Heikki Holmås, and I don't see any pressing from there to get permission to use tolls for the operation of public transport. On the contrary, I am familiar with the vast majority of people in the Right in Bergen and in Stavanger bone-hard opponents of the rush-time charge--they don't want it introduced, and at least don't want to go further on this gallie that the Government is now adding up. So I don't see the whole problem. There is nothing else, as Heikki Holmås says, but that each and every toll project has to go to Stortinget for approval. In that case, if a local person has negotiated a wish to use tolls for the operation of public transport, the Stortinget must be granted a special treatment permit on a case-by-case basis. It's Right's wish. We want to be restrictive here, we don't want to let this slide out. - I'll go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e292	Several have not asked for the word for a line. It is possible that the representative Heikki Holmås has introduced a new practice here by using the term ‘not clinging to hands’ as a parliamentary expression, but we are letting it go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e297	This is a brand day. It's a brand day for several reasons, but the main reason is that we've got a local initiative here from Oslo and Akershus that's made sure to get a process going that was going on many years ago. Here we have opened up and ensured that public transport is financed through a division, where those who use the roads, those who pollute locally, those who create queues for business - with which it has to work - are involved in financing a collective offering that can solve these problems. I'm proud to represent Oslo in this context, because Oslo and Akershus have been the ones who have driven this through and made the recording. I'm proud that it's our government that gets the opportunity, and that actually takes that grip and is conscious of its responsibility and says that this is what we're doing because it's an important act. I would like this to be done by previous governments, just to send out the signal that public transport is so important that this is something we should share, and that the drivers should be involved in and split up. I also think it is right and important to note that if the Progress Party had ruled the country, if Arne Sortevik had been sitting as Minister of Transport, we would never have had the collective effort we now see happening in Oslo and Akershus. That's why this is a happy day. Oslopackak 3 has a significant problem. Despite the fact that we are getting a huge investment in both the development of public transport and the operation of public transport - which is what this is all about - it is still going to lead to increased traffic, increased environmental impact and increased environmental impact for the inhabitants of Oslo - all asthmatics, people with respiratory diseases and others who are going to suffer from this. I don't think there's a single Oslo politician who doesn't see the need to do more in the years to come, but we're going to have to push that debate. That debate has thrown itself into both the Minister of Transport and others, and I think that is great. It's a very necessary debate, because otherwise we'll lead people in Oslo behind the lights. I've had this debate with Arne Sortevik before. In 1995, I was elected to Bergen City Council. Then we went around and said, "We want the city track now." We did both one and the other action to get the urban railway thing on the map. What was one of the challenges at the time was just the problem that we didn't have the opportunity to make sure that tolls could help finance the operation of the collective service. There's no doubt about it, and I think it's greedyly nice, that the majority has taken this up. I just want to refer to the setting where it says on page 2: ‘The majority would point out that it is not realistic to believe that it is possible to solve the transport problems of road construction alone. ‘... I think it's a great statement. I think it's great that it stays in Stortinget's minutes as something that everyone except the Progress Party has recognized. It simply means taking into account what the research says, that in order to solve transport problems, it's not just to think that you can build yourself out of this, because, as you look around in all the big cities, the traffic comes back. People are driving more, more traffic is generated, we're getting bigger air pollution problems, and we have the climate challenge at the top. This requires giving local politicians the option of investing heavily in public transport instead. Had this opportunity been there before, I think that many cities had opted differently in their bets--they might have invested in public transport instead of building roads. Now we're here today. This we get to. Toll transfer from drivers to public transport is a good social act, because we know that those who now travel collectively in the Oslo area are not the ones who have the most money -- it's mainly those who have less money doing it. So you get a transfer that's socially correct. In addition, it is good for business, because public transport is involved in ensuring that road systems are recharged. So we all know that it's not useful with a bet on public transport alone. There is also a need for restrictive measures - but that discussion is only going to get bigger and stronger in the coming years. I have faith in the future, I have faith that this is an important step, and I believe that we should be able to solve the challenges facing Oslo and other major cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e322	Let me tell the representative Holmås that we would like to join the government. I think the drivers can be happy that we're going there, because we are. The representative is involved in the local initiative. Is it the citizens themselves who are to decide in a referendum, or is it too democratic for the SV? Is it true that there is enough local initiative when it comes to decision-making without specifically asking the population? If local politicians do this voluntarily, do they do it because they have a burning desire to take over bills from the state, so that the state does not pay? How long are they going to pay, how long are they going to pay in Oslo for the operation of public transport? How long shall this bombing be so long that the drivers in Oslo will pay for the operation of public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e329	How long will the Oslo drivers pay for this, it will be up to the citizens of Oslo to decide. Now Arne Sortevik isn't one of them, but he's cordially welcome to move over if he wants to, so that he can help decide this. But this is what the people of Oslo are doing through their local democracy. I am not opposed to referendums. It's interesting to note: when we did surveys before the election four years ago, we asked people: what do you choose if you can choose between more to go, more to public transport or more to both road and public transport? The inhabitants of Oslo were then responsible. They said, we need a commitment to public transport, because it's the one that can solve Oslo's challenges. So the vast majority of Oslo city councils have said that they want to do it. So Arne Sortevik's comrades - party traps, I guess, were involved in negotiating the package that's here. As responsible local politicians, we ensure that this solution is achieved. I think people in Oslo will be happy with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e336	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e340	It is not often that I begin to quote from the Christian People's Party program, but I thought I would initiate my article with it today. It reads as follows: «In urban areas, priority must be given to public transport. Tolls and road pricing must be used to finance, in whole or in part, new road projects and the development and operation of public transport. ‘... I could be tempted to welcome after, with the setting we have today, but I will not. I'd rather be glad that there's now a large majority on the Stortinget that goes in to spend tolls to get a stronger collective offer in metropolitan areas. It is particularly gratifying to deal with this matter right now, while at the same time a historical climate settlement has been reached at Stortinget. So to the reality of the matter: the progress party is pretty predictable from the position they have for the use of tolls. I will therefore not go further into it, but I will make a little visit to the Right. The majority, including the Right, point out ‘that it is not realistic to believe that it is possible to solve the transport problems with road construction alone’. The same majority emphasises ‘the strengthening of public transport, traffic regulation and investment in a field that reduces local environmental problems and increases the overall trend is necessary to achieve an objective of efficient and environmentally friendly transport in urban areas’. With this in mind, it is disappointing that the Right does not find it possible to participate in the proposal for a general possibility for urban areas to use tolls for collective action. I'll quote what the same majority writes: ‘The majority will pay tribute to the politicians in Oslo and Akershus who have been very far-sighted in their way of thinking about transport policy. ‘... Yes, right-wing politicians in Oslo and Akershus have been ‘very farsighted’, says Right on the Stortinget, but right on the Stortinget will not be able to give other urban areas a general right to this. Now the representative of Greece stressed that it could be assessed by the right when the request came, and I think it is a pleasure. But the general right will not be a part of granting. That the Right, together with the Advance Party, will repeal § 7a on road pricing, which they have also voted against in the past, is not surprising and is in line with what the Right has always stood for. The Christian People's Party believes that this matter is a very good example of those who pay tolls getting something for it. And in what way? Well, through both a better collective offer and less driving on the roads. Finally, I refer to the proposal we have with the Right and the Left, where we are asking the Ministry that tolls to be used for collective action can be channelled directly to a regional or local administration company following a decision in the Stortinget. As far as I understand, the Minister is in favour of this. I hope we get an answer to that in the posts of the Minister of Transport. I also challenge the position to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e366	The representative Jan Sahl appears to be very positive, I think, in this case. The Christian People's Party is also clear in its programme, and I think that is good. My question is, what will the representative Sahl do to his party friends in Bergen and Hordaland, where the Christian People's Party sits with power? The Christian People's Party in Bergen and Hordaland have not dared to impose restrictions on car traffic at all in order to strengthen public transport. They rule with the Right Party and the Advance Party. Will the representative Sahl take any initiative towards his party friends in Bergen and Hordaland, facing some major challenges in terms of collective action?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e373	The Christian People's Party has continuous dialogue with its local politicians around, including in Bergen and Hordaland. But we have no tradition of exerting any pressure on what choices our local politicians are going to make when they're in a cooperative constellation. Then there is the question of negotiating and finding solutions that can be agreed in the coalition. But our local politicians in Bergen and Hordaland are also fully aware of our party formulations. I am convinced that they have aired them together with their partners, but probably they have had to compromise on the solutions to be found in Bergen and Hordaland. But I think it is a pleasure that in Bergen a solution has been put in place with the city track.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e380	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e383	In this case, there is a question of whether toll collection should be used for measures for the operation of public transport. There is reason to take a look and see that we have a superior responsibility to facilitate good communities. In the good community, good traffic management is an important element for both public health and the environment. The fact that one is now opening up in the community of e.g. Oslo, or in similar urban areas, can benefit from toll collection for measures for the operation of public transport is positive. There's evidence of a brain stem. The proposal precisely states that the use of tolls for the operation of public transport should be part of a holistic and coordinated plan for a specific urban area. This legislative amendment is based on a decision taken locally in Oslo and Akershus to use toll agents from Oslopacket 3 for the operation of public transport. There is a reason to give credit to the initiators of this news. Toll collection is a time-limited system. There is a system where local policy initiatives and decisions are needed. It would also be in order to establish a toll package where tolls are to be used for operational purposes in a collective organisation. Making good and forward-looking decisions is about the will and ability to manage and take responsibility. As a politician, there is a responsibility to rule within what is possible. The centre has noticed that toll collection as a tool has wide connections. The centre party will direct towards further developing the good communities. I believe that precisely developing a good community has been important for the politicians from Oslo and Akershus, who took the initiative for this news.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e398	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e401	I listened with interest, and my first challenge to the representative is: I heard it was said community almost like Oslo. Does the Centre Party intend to apply the same methodology abroad? There are probably not urban communities that are similar to Oslo - not in Norway at least. It was, of course, a little bit of a joke, but it tells me a little bit about how ambitious you are in terms of taking the car lists for money. My question to the Central Party is: Where does the border go in relation to local initiative when the state fails? Does the Central Party also believe that in all areas where the State fails in relation to transfers, local initiatives should be taken into account when requesting funding? For example, the municipal sector is now struggling. Is it now OK for the Central Party to get local initiatives around the whole country, where, for example, it is. Are additional taxes required to pay and upgrade the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e410	It was an interesting problem. Obviously, the communities that are similar to Oslo must be the largest urban areas we have in this country, as the Center Party sees it. It must be up to the citizens through democratic processes, where a choice of politicians, to decide whether or not to proceed with this system. There will also be limitations when it relates to the economy of such a project, to make it go, so I think that the good sense is well distributed across the country. Local communities will see what is possible for them to achieve. When it comes to refurbishment of the school and the like, this is with local tax collectors who have been assessed. One must also be able to evaluate it further to see if it can be a moment, perhaps just to increase democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e419	The centre party is for bombings and tolls in the cities, and then the follow-up question is: Is the centre party against the introduction of bombings and tolls in small communities - something that we'll probably get a storm off in the coming period? That's my first question. I'd like to face a challenge. What was in the answer here was interesting. If someone compares local taxpayers with local initiatives, I think that's interesting. The centre party and the Progress Party are probably a little in line for the local determination of the taxpayer. But that initiative can't come from a local team, can it? It must perhaps come from government and big business. I don't think the comparison is 100%.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e426	It is clear that the local taxpayer must be attached centrally, but locally, it can be chosen whether or not to benefit from it, and for what purpose, if any, it can be used to establish a new cultural house, or whether it is to provide better care in the care sector. So the question of communities should be small or large in order to introduce tolls. I think, as I said, it's the inhabitants, the community itself -- whether it's big or small -- who want to decide what to use tolls for.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e434	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e437	The left has been a driver for amending Section 27 of the Road Code so that tolls can be used for the operation of public transport. But it's important to notice what's in Ot.prp. No 15 for 2007-2008 that this money should be a complement to the normal transport effort over the ordinary budget. The reason why the Left is in favour of a change to Section 27 is that we see that this can have positive traffic and environmental effects. In these times with a strong focus on the environment, this is a contribution we can and should make in the transport sector. The Left takes part in a majority of the Committee which commends the historic, cross-political consensus reached by local politicians in Oslo and Akershus. The left, together with the government parties and the Christian People's Party, believes that this is a modern way of seeing traffic and transport, that those who pay tolls get a reward in terms of fewer cars on the roads, better public transport and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, as we have heard several times here today. Another point in this setting, which is important for the Left, is to show that the current arrangements for the allocation of tolls to investment measures in the field of public transport are a long and circumstantial process. It is a local desire both from Oslo City Council and the district committee in Akershus that the tolls used for the operation of public transport should go directly to a local public society. The left considers that such a system will achieve an efficient flow of money, ensure the dynamics of planning and implementation of operational measures in the field of public transport, and enable proper coordination to be achieved. In the Left's view, this is a far-sighted and modern way of thinking about getting the most public transport for the money. The Oslopack 3 funds will only amount to about 12 pst. of the total budget of the merged company Oslo and Akershus Collective traffic AS. I am disappointed that the government parties will not immediately meet this strong wish from Oslo and Akershus, which we also received from both SV and Right at our hearing on this matter. Finally, I would like to call on the Government Parties to fulfil the wishes of the local politicians in Oslo and Akershus and to vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e454	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e457	The left and the centre parties stand together in this matter, but I noticed for a while that the representative tended to go very strongly towards the Minister of Transport in connection with a discussion on road pricing, and in particular the Council of State's reference to the fact that in special situations it might be relevant for the state to impose road pricing if nothing happens locally. Then I also register in this case that some have proposed to make changes to §7a of the Road Traffic Act. The left does not do that. My question to the representative is: Is there a fundamental assessment by the representative Tenden in relation to the Council of State when she criticises her reference to the law she uses? She believes that the Council of State should not refer to the law adopted by the Grand Duchy in the case of, for example: this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e466	In terms of road pricing, this is actually also in the left-hand program, so it's not a very distant thought for the left-hand side. But I have to say that I am quite upset that the Minister for Transport has talked several times about the rush-time charge in parallel with the fact that we have spent a lot of time and energy working with Oslopackak 3. It's been quite frustrating. For the purpose of Oslopackakt 3, it is precisely to facilitate public transport. If you get such a local consensus, it has to be of the good thing. One must not operate with disruptive elements and constantly rustle with the sabre and say that road pricing may be relevant. I perceived it as a matter of time to override the local initiative, but it is possible that I was wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e471	I'm a little surprised by what Borghild Tenden says. Well, it's negotiated an Oslopackakt 3, but as I pointed out instead, Oslopackakt 3 will also lead to an increase in road traffic in Oslo, according to the calculations made by the Municipality of Oslo and its underlying offices. Then my question is: is Borghild Tende satisfied with the fact that traffic in the Oslo area will increase in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e478	I see a lot of people claim it. I think that the introduction of a rush-time charge primarily regulates the queues towards Oslo. I'm very uncertain. But now we're going on a trip in 14 days, along with the Right and SV, and look at the congestion tax and the impact it has in Stockholm. I'm very excited, because I hear rumors that the queues have just moved. That might mean that car traffic is exactly the same. I have also understood that someone claims that there has been more traffic within Stockholm. But I will look at this with my own eyes and investigate, and then we can get back to the matter. But if it's so difficult for SV to swallow this Oslopacket 3, why do they do it, when they're in a majority government and have the opportunity to impose a drug duty? - But I'm afraid you won't be able to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e485	In one of the comments from the Progress Party, reference is made to Section 7a of the Road Code and it states: ‘Road pricing shall only be introduced when the municipalities and county councils concerned agree to this. However, the Ministry may, in exceptional cases, impose on the municipalities and counties concerned the implementation of road pricing. ‘... So this was a law that the left voted to introduce into the previous magnification period. I wonder if the representative Tenden can give some examples of what she thinks might be special cases where the department can impose this on the municipalities and county municipalities concerned. Don't want to do that, for example. are cities with major congestion problems and difficulties in completing transport during rush time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e495	With respect to reporting, I think it's a very hypothetical question when the Left has been one of the proponents to negotiate Oslopack 3. If we had meant anything else, we would have done something else. We stand for Oslopackak 3, and we've done that all along. So starting to confront me with that kind of hypothetical question, I think it's going to be wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e500	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e503	Tolls are now primarily used for road construction. Current legislation also allows toll revenue to be used for investments in public transport infrastructure. With the current legislative proposal for the management of Stortinget, the use of tolls will be extended to cover the operation of all types of public service on a regular basis. The proposal for this extension of the use of tolls is specifically designed to facilitate a more environmentally friendly and efficient transport network in metropolitan areas. This bill follows among others. a cross-political desire from local authorities in connection with Oslopackak 3. The package is a comprehensive scheme for the future development and operation of the road and collective system in the Oslo area. The legislative proposal is limited to urban areas, and the use of tolls for public transport operations has been considered to be most relevant in the main urban areas. The establishment of toll packages in an urban area shall be based on local policy plans for land use and transport systems. Clear targets for the establishment of a toll package shall be defined in the area concerned. In order to achieve these objectives, it is important that tolls for public transport operations become a complement to the regular public budget effort, and that tolls are used in such a way that, after a limited period of effort, they contribute to achieving the targets set. Furthermore, it has been suggested that reporting and control procedures should be developed. Government and grossing-up will also follow the developments of the packages in relation to major national transport plans and annual budgets. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee support the proposal and agree with the Government that income from toll schemes in big cities should be used in a way that improves the environment, benefits all groups of road users and leads to a better and more coordinated transport system. I have noticed that the majority in the committee are expressing that this is a modern way of looking at traffic and transport problems. Such use of tolls in metropolitan areas will help to strengthen public transport and thus reduce environmental and health problems arising from passenger car traffic. Less use of private cars in metropolitan areas also leads to better road traffic flows, which in turn can reduce transport and distribution costs for business. By strengthening public transport and by facilitating the pressure on road capacity, one can in the future avoid some costly and land-consuming road development through residential areas and valuable open-air areas in large cities. In the case of the management of the tolls to be used for operation, the State and local authorities agree that the State Road Administration administers the collection of cash flows from the toll company. This is for budgetary, accounting, audit and control purposes. However, we have also agreed that the use of operational resources should be governed by local policy decisions within the framework laid down by the Storting. It is important to establish a simple and prudent system for direct transfers of funds to the new collective society. Furthermore, the management model of Oslopackak 3 will be discussed in conjunction with the step 2 proposal of the package. So I want to come back to this. I have also noticed that a number of members of the Committee are asking the Government to come back to the Stortinget in an appropriate way, with proposals to take care of the desire to use financial incentives for the translation of fuel charges for public transport operations, cf. rule in road laws § 27a. Of course, I will follow this up. I am pleased that the majority in Stortinget follows up the presentation that was originally produced by a broad political plurality in the Municipality of Oslo and Akershus County. They have shown wisdom and are foreseen in their minds to develop a collective system that will improve the daily lives of people living in this city, both when it comes to it, when it comes to local environment and when it comes to securing a collective service that age groups can enjoy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e528	I see no reason to challenge the Council of State on the facts of the matter and the arguments that have gone back and forth between the various parties. But I'd like to try a little bit on a hypothetical question, and I hope the Council of State will take the challenge. If it is the local initiative that is decisive for both the Government and the majority in the Grand Duchy to say yes to this Oslo package 3 by opening up tolls for the operation of public transport, and if we imagine that there had been a majority in Oslo with the Progress Party, and that there had not been a local initiative in relation to Oslo package 3, would one have had to wait 30-40 years before the sitting government would have taken an initiative to find resources to improve public transport and roads in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e535	This is going to be a hypothetical question at most. But let's now sincerely hope that this government will sit for 30-40 years. It's a very sweet thing that I can share. When it comes to finding means of public transport, it is a responsibility for the county municipality - Oslo municipality is both the municipality and the county municipality - and Akershus county in this case. In the case of investments in public transport by rail, this government has a double level of investment by rail. We have increased the bet on the purchase of services on the railway, which will primarily benefit this area, because when it comes to the railway, we are betting most strongly on the intercity triangle and Oslo as a large node. So I wouldn't look so black on it. We're going to continue that bet, but now one in addition gets a ride that will intensify the bet further, for the benefit of the people of this city.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e542	I think the Council of State has a good opinion on Oslopackakt3 and the local political settlement that underpins it, while the Council of State - not as the Council of State, but as chairman of the Central Party Programme Committee - opens the door to a rush-time charge, which is to be imposed on the municipalities. Now I'm not going to ask any questions about it, but I'm going to ask questions about the legal paragraph we're now adopting, where the councillor of Navarsete's colleague from More and Romesdal Senterpartie instead talked about the corresponding urban areas that could benefit from the same home as the law now provides. What is not clear from either the comments or the paragraph is whether it will be possible for the Ministry to impose this on the municipalities when applying for a toll project, saying: OK, we are going for the toll project, assuming that the tolls are used for the operation of public transport. Is there a thought that the Council of State supports, that one can force, or impose, the municipalities to use the money for operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e549	I don't see it as a current problem. That's why I'm saying that for the first time it's the state that's responsible for the collective effort, and then there must also be the state and the respective urban areas that have to seek such a solution - a release right enough in the future to search for it, but they have to choose such a solution locally. I don't think the government is going to make that kind of demands to deal with a toll case, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e554	I have a question about channelling the cash flow. It is, as I mentioned in my post, that a local manager wanted to manage the money received in connection with the collection of Oslopackak 3. There's also a proposal here from the minority about that. The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Wickholm, said that there could be a proposal on this in a roll-out proposal. Can the Council of States confirm that this will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e559	As I said in my article, we're going to add a step 2 to this package. In connection with that submission, this issue will also be discussed more closely. We have had several good meetings with Oslo and Akserhus there, among others. This has our theme. We have agreed that the State Road Service must have some sort of superior responsibility here associated with auditing - not least the Riksrevision's demands and references in relation to Oslopacket 2, on governance, make it necessary. But we want to find a solution where a channelling agent directly to the public society, because it's primarily for the public society it's important to get such a fast, direct and prudent transfer -- of course definitely locally. The other projects on the way should be specified locally. There I am very clear and quite in agreement with Oslo and Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e564	It's certainly not safe to say that you're satisfied with something, in the wake of the etates' submission of NTP today. But following my first line, which of course was hypothetical, I would say that the Oslo Progress Party believes that local politicians in Oslo are very responsible. What I'm trying to stress is why local politicians in Oslo show so much responsibility that they assume the state's responsibility for building infrastructure. That's why I asked the hypothetical question. I'd like to stress it a little bit. If there had not been a local initiative by responsible politicians in Oslo, how long could this government be sitting and seeing that the infrastructure is raging in the Oslo and Akershus regions? Should one wait for something similar to our tunnels, where the Government had to intervene with extraordinary means, or would the Government at some point break in, initiate and impose on Oslo exactly the same developments?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e569	Once again, there's a hypothetical question. I like to stick to the everyday life as he is, and not as he could in any case be, so it's just a problem I don't want to go into. What I can say is that, in relation to the rest of the country, a large proportion of the total budget goes to the Oslo area, both in terms of rail and in terms of roads - not least linked to important entry roads to Oslo, where there are just enough tolls, but also where the state has large funds in connection with the country otherwise. There is no doubt that we have a responsibility to make good appearances in this city as in the country otherwise, and we focus a lot on it in the day-to-day work. How the situation would be without Oslopackack 3, I just can't start to wonder about.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e578	Toll financing for public transport and road development by local initiative is claimed. But from who? Is it from local government representatives who say yes to toll projects and then reject popular initiative that says no tolls? Is that the way we're going to have it? I even come from a municipality where the majority have said yes to toll collection, without the elected people or the citizens at all knowing how many meters of road are being built, even if 700 million are to be collected. kr in the form of tolls. Then my question is: Is it after diffuse sketches biging and municipal politicians going to say yes to the collection of tolls, or are the real plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e583	When individual toll projects are presented, the quality assurances are provided both after KS1 and after KS2, external consultants are included, of course, in addition to the distributions and calculations made by the State Road Service, so there are no unsolvable measures to be taken by the Storting. When it comes to toll packages, not project packages, but funding packages, it is clear that they can be changed on the run if the calculations crack, if they have not taken the height of the correct costs of the packages. But even when these are involved, of course, quality assurance of content has been made so that it is possible to avoid such a situation as far as possible. But we've seen, for example. in Oslopackakt2, that a project has to be pushed out of time because it has not reached its cost development height. It is clear that it is difficult today to see the costs coming in 10 years, when it comes to the type of large toll package.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e591	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e596	Now there's a finished post on a yellow note here, but I think I'm dealing with my own. I think I'm going to follow up the lines, because I think it's important, not just for the Progress Party, and not just for the undersigned, but for the whole Biggest to find out why it's coming up with local initiatives. I would like to show that some city councillors around the whole country in their municipal government decisions have said that because the state does not show responsibility, and because the state is running blackmail, we feel pressured to apply for tolls. I'm trying to stress: why is it that local initiative comes? It's of course -- and it's perhaps a little harsh claim -- because both the sitting government, the government before there and the government before there again, i.e. almost a cross-political, an overall political, environment, all without the Progress Party, have driven development by pushing environmental issues, climate issues and local politicians forward because they themselves have failed in relation to what is responsible under the law of the day. So today we are going so far as to blame the Oslo politicians. You owe it to the environment and the climate if we don't do anything. The same politicians could do something about both the environment and the climate, if that's what they're worried about, by giving money and getting this done. That's why I'm putting a lot of stress on it. So it is that today, once again, the same politicians owe it to the local politicians in Oslo. They owe so much to the local politicians in Oslo that they are willing to adopt a new law that violates other laws. So the majority today adopts a law, after pushing the local politicians in Oslo to take an initiative that will make other laws. That's how far it's gone. That is what I note that the debate will also be going on in the future towards 2009. And you big world, I must say I am happy! I also record that a majority in the vote says that this is a modern way of seeing the traffic and transport problems. That's a modern way! In addition, they almost allow themselves to be so rude, if I'm allowed to say so, to say that those who pay tolls get something left. No, those who are going to pay the toll are the ones who are already paying nearly 60 billion kroner. Those who have to pay these tolls already pay $60 billion each year, every year, in taxes related to cars. In addition, the transport sector, which pays almost 100 billion kroner, comes related to its industry. So it's not about that. It is simply a matter of disclaimer from the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e607	This is a big day. I want to say it's a historic day, and for my part I have to add: what Odelstinget today, hopefully, decides, is a principle that I've been working for for for more than 15 years. At first it was heavy, the countermeasures were great, but then it became a recognition in the large political majority in the metropolitan region that this was a completely necessary step to tackle the transport challenges in the Oslo area. The principle was finally adopted unanimously--I believe, at least with great unanimity--in Oslo City Government, including the Advance Party, and by all parties in Akershu County, except the Advance Party. The bombing in Oslo has led to a marked improvement on behalf of the capital area, primarily the expansion of what was in its time called the Mountain Line, but also of a number of other road links. We don't have to go back very many years in time: we remember that traffic down through Vålerenga was collapsing for hours every single morning and back again every single afternoon. Eventually, funds from the bombing were also used for investments in the collective network. Stations, terminals, entrance parking places, etc., i.e. public transport infrastructure. But it won't last. We also need to do something about collective provision in order to address transport challenges in the capital region. So it's not going to work out of the problems. So it's important to stress that this we're joining today is not a way of financing today's public transport. There I actually agree with the Right -- I guess we're allowed to announce it -- that we have to assume that what we're now opening up to comes in addition to what's used in public transport today. What we now join in is going to increase the operation of public transport. If tolls are to be used for the operation of public transport, they must be part of a comprehensive transport service. And that must apply in urban areas. Then I realize that someone is wondering where to set the limit for what are urban areas -- there are now a lot of cities in Norway -- and whether it's going to apply in Mysen, Ashim, Lillestrøm and other pearls of Norwegian cities. I am absolutely sure it will not, but at least I am absolutely sure that it will apply in Oslo and Akershus. That's what's important to get in place. Today's legislative changes are a prerequisite for Oslopackak 3. The next big day will be when Stortinget in less than that long will receive Oslopackak 3 for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e620	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e628	The odelsting goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e636	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2 by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to give its agreement that tolls used for the operation of public transport within a plan for a comprehensive and coordinated transport system which has received the Pre-Accession of the Storting can be channelled directly to a regional or local management company. ‘... Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an immediate action against the repeal of Section 7a of the Road Traffic Act with immediate effect. ‘... Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: «The decision asks the Government to bring an immediate action against the repeal of § 27 and § 27A of the Road Code with immediate effect. ‘... These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e684	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e697	There will now be a vote on proposal No. Four, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «In road law 21 June 1963 no. Paragraph 27 of the second paragraph is replaced by the following: The ability to use tolls for the operation of public transport has a background in Oslopack3 and liabilities in Oslo and Akershus. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e720	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e733	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e747	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-17-lower.ana.ud689e799	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
