ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e47	The representative of Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e50	I am pleased to make two representative proposals. The first is on behalf of the representatives of Ola T. Lånke, Laila Davøy and myself to simplify the free card system for medicines and healthcare. The second is on behalf of the representative Laila Davøy and myself on measures to reduce the number of young people who are suffering from mental illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e55	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e68	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2222]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e83	The representative proposal touches on a wide range of themes and issues that both the Government and the various parties here at Stortinget focus on. The proposal concerns a number of areas which are partly comprehensive, where responsibility lies with different departments. This applies not least to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Justice. I would like to make it clear at the outset that it is important to focus strongly on these challenges whether we have one or the other connection now. We can never be too good in this area, and should have a humble approach, as this is about individuals and families in different stages of life. As rapporteur of the case, I have attributed a very thorough reply dated 3 December 2007 to the Minister for Finance on behalf of the Committee. Here, state councils explain what has been done, what work is going on, and what is being assessed in the future. The letter from the Council of State shows that the Government is taking the debt problems seriously. The government is doing well to improve the situation of debtors in a difficult economic situation. In particular, I would like to point out that the Tax Directorate has started a working group specifically focused on the report ‘Taxetter management of disadvantaged taxpayers’. The report addresses changes in practices, practices, guidelines and legislation. In my opinion, the report signals a more open external position and a recognition that there are some taxpayers who are unable for shorter or longer periods to attend to their own interests, including the delivery of the tax return. With regard to measures that are being worked on, I would like to point out in particular: assessment of the need for adjustments to the Debt Schemes Act establishing a green number for the assessment of whether a debt register should be established in Norway considering the need for the introduction of a non-advisory credit purchase obligation Unfortunately, in my many years of life as a health and social manager, I have experienced many tragedies in the wake of the fact that individuals have been in a difficult situation of life mentally or socially, have experienced family tragedies, life crimes, drug use or imprisonment where they have not been able to discharge their responsibilities to the public authorities. This has in turn resulted in discretionary determinations of taxes that are not charged on the basis of the individual’s situation and where tax claims are not paid. Then it spins on new discretionary determinations and coercion of the requirements as a result. For many, lack of follow-up and assistance has led to the destruction of lives, and they are unable to get up again. In particular, I have experienced people in individual companies who have gone overboard for various reasons. I'm not saying this to mention a group negative, but I'm referring to the fact that ordinary employees and social security recipients have a tax advance scheme that in most cases prevents them from getting into the situation that the tax debt is growing above them. In my view, already implemented measures and measures under investigation and preparation will lead to the establishment of a more satisfactory regulatory framework, not least to the establishment of a policy for more outlying and outlying activities. In particular, it is important for individuals to be provided with information on the existing measures and on where to seek advice and guidance. Often, help seekers feel rejected by being thrown into the system or meeting reserved employees in the public sector. This is what needs to be changed, and many institutions have come a long way in showing a more open and outward-looking attitude. Unfortunately, in many cases customers may feel that they are meeting with a certain cool attitude from public authorities. We have both received written hearings and concluded an oral hearing in which the Norwegian Collection Agency's Association, the Debt Victim Alliance and the Juss-Bus participated. In other words, we have set up a broad process for this, as this is important for most people. The document proposals of the Progress Party cover, as mentioned above, a wide range of cases within a total of eight main areas with a number of sub-items. It is so extensive that the majority, all without the Progress Party itself, find it difficult to support the proposals without a wider review. However, I would like to commend the Progress Party on the fact that they have done some extensive work on the draft document. The majority propose, with some emphasis, that the proposals be annexed to the protocol, while the Progress Party would have voted on the individual proposals. I refer here to the unanimous comments of the Committee, comments by a majority other than the Advance Party, majority comments by the Government Parties, minority comments by the members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Progress Party has its own comments. I assume that the various groupings within the Committee will present their specific comments. As I said at the outset, it is important to keep a constant focus on the debt problems and the challenges this creates for individuals. It will be necessary to have a critical look at whether public bodies and others involved in debt collection or debt collection activities have systems to address human aspects. It is important that we do not have such a rigid system, for example in the context of debt claims, that it creates further problems for individuals and their families. The provision of new skills for employees to deal with challenging issues in this field is important. For the sake of order, I would like to point out that there seems to be a misunderstanding in the background discussion of the scope and system of the Debt Regulation. It's about what happens where the creditor doesn't get hold of debts, and the good man's role in the debt regime. Here I would like to stress that it is only the debtor himself who can apply for debt negotiations, not the creditors. Nor is it the case that the tax collector can only take over and deal with the creditors. It is also the case that the principal may only send out a proposal in agreement with the debtor, who shall have signed the proposal. With this, I recommend the Committee's recommendation, which proposes that Document No. 8:16 is annexed to the Protocol for 2007-2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e134	Let me first of all thank the rapporteur for the commendation he gave to the Progress Party for the proposal we have made. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a good cooperation on the procedure and progress, and that we were given an open consultation on the issues raised in the draft representative. So to the specific matter we're dealing with now. At the presentation of this proposal for a representative, the Progress Party has had a clear desire to focus on some major challenges we face in our welfare society. The representative proposal is based on two main themes. One is ‘improvement of the position of taxpayers in disputes’, and the other is ‘improvement of the situation of people with debt problems’. These are two important challenges, which, too often, are two sides of the same coin. Let me say right away: I do not claim that with this proposal for a representative, we are solving all the issues related to these important issues. However, the Progress Party has promoted a number of concrete proposals that will be able to correct some of the imbalances that many people experience with today's system and current rules. This view is also supported by the Hearing Officers. In the open hearing of the Financial Committee on 5 February, the Committee was clearly informed of several of the issues raised. I note that a number of the proposals of the Progress Party were endorsed by the hearing bodies present at the hearing. Many have worked on these issues for a long time. The Debt Victim Alliance has devoted many years of effort to this field, and the Progress Party has chosen to follow up proposals from the organisation. It is proposals that will improve the quality of life and the everyday life of many thousands of people, often without this imposing large financial costs on the state. On the contrary. Providing people with the opportunity to get back on their feet could help many to get out of today's hopeless situation and get back into paid work, to improve quality of life and to make up for themselves. In many ways, it's exactly what this case is about: taking people seriously and giving people a chance to get out of a debt nightmare. We read mostly daily about people who are in a difficult situation because of debt problems, and we are constantly hearing about people who experience the tax rate as anything but service-free. They experience that they are fighting red tape, a struggle that often loses each one because of lack of resources, and they feel that it is useless. I'm glad that an overall committee agrees that this is an area that requires the Storting and Government's attention. But I'm not going to hide that I'm disappointed that no other parties want to join any of the proposals of the Progress Party. It is precisely through concrete decisions and the follow-up to decisions that you can really show that you are taking this issue seriously. Our proposals are to a large extent investigation proposals, commissioned by the Government to continue working on the matter. Therefore, it is my clear opinion that several of the proposals should have been accepted by other parties, but I take note that this does not happen. Let me then come up with some of our suggestions. I'm not going to comment on all the suggestions. The representative proposals we have put forward are on twelve sides. All the proposals are discussed relatively in detail, but some I want to address here. The Party shall promote a number of proposals relating to the procedures of the Equation Authorities. Many people today raise a case against the equality authorities because of resources. This means that those with a good economy have the opportunity to advance their case, while many with small financial resources feel completely innocent in meeting the authorities. This is a problem which at least I have received a number of enquiries about. I also record through the media that a good number of people do not have the opportunity to fight this bureaucracy to promote their case, and that they feel unfair, bad and mistreated by the equality authorities. That should be a challenge. It should obviously also be a problem that involves more politicians. The Progress Party therefore wants the Government to look at this and to consider whether the burden of proof in judgments is to be placed more heavily on the Equality Offices and to allow taxpayers to be deducted from the expenses relating to disputes, including proposals to apply the rules on free legal aid in such cases. I am pleased to record that we receive support for the latter from the other opposition parties, at least in the form of a note. The Progress Party also believes that it is essential to review public practices and behaviour as a creditor, with a view to creating better, consistent and more humane practices. Indeed, many people experience the public as a tough creditor, in many cases perhaps as the toughest, despite the fact that the public can nevertheless be left with the bill if they do not get along after such a meeting with the public as a creditor body. Specific proposals we put forward related to this are among other things: that we want the Government to review those cases where the government has primacy as a creditor or a pledger and assesses the appropriateness. We also want to assess a change in the law that gives the lowest public priority to bankruptcy. Furthermore, we promote a number of proposals relating to debt collection activities in Norway, including when public intervention takes place. The Progress Party would like to consider bringing together the various drawdown bodies in debt to one drawdown body, establishing one indicative common rate of living, investigating the functioning of the debt collection market in Norway in relation to other countries, and proposing measures to contribute to the reduction of collection fees. The Progress Party is concerned that people who are in financial debt should settle separately. At the same time, it is important to have good systems, so that settlement can be made as smoothly as possible, to the minimum extent possible for all parties. It will definitely serve society as a whole. In particular, in the light of the debate over the last few years on combating poverty, the proposals of the Progress Party are important. Implementing these proposals would have helped to enable people with debt problems to move forward. That should be something we all joined. I have registered and of course read the reply letter we received from the Minister of Finance. I'm glad that in some areas she has absolutely focused on this. I'll be honest and admit it, but at the same time I miss a progress. We have made a number of proposals in this proposal for a representative, which, unfortunately, when they are not adopted, I hope to continue working with them. I have registered what the majority have submitted in comments on the matter, and as I read them, I feel that in many ways they are-- call it a marshaller to the Government for further work. The government itself has said that they want a further focus on this. I'm glad. I hope, as I said, that this can take place in these matters, because the individuals who are in this situation and experience the everyday life as incredibly tough cannot wait year after year. There are many tragedies behind the numbers that we often get presented related to this kind of thing. I hope, at least, that with this proposal, with the Government's response to the Storting and the majority's comments on the matter, we can get further and faster progress on these issues. Finally, I would like to address the proposals put forward by the Progress Party in the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e172	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e175	There may be many reasons why people have debt problems. Some people lack an overview of their economy. They obtain expensive credit cards to pay bills or finance further consumption. When they are unable to operate the loan, they are constantly taking up new consumption loans to serve old debts. The snowball starts rolling, and then you've put yourself in a very difficult situation that's even harder to get out of. There are many individual people with many different stories, and the reasons why they end up with big debt problems are many. Most of them, in my view, have one thing in common: it is a desire to get out of the impossible situation, pay back their debt and become innocent. People who have problems servicing their debt are basically in a very difficult situation. Many fall outside when they have debt problems. Then it is more important than anything else that these people are given the opportunity to come back to work and get help with their payment problems through different schemes. To the right, it is of the opinion that it is important to introduce preventive measures to address the debt problem. An important preventive action against debt problems, particularly among young people, is for example: education in the personal economy of the school. This has now been introduced both in primary and secondary schools and includes, among others, instruction on the consequences of borrowing. It is also important to market loan offers, in isolation and for example. in relation to the sale of dwellings, both the nights and adequate guidance are provided. Many of those affected by a debt crisis are often people who are initially poor in resources. People who experience themselves as poor are also affected by debt problems. I remember from the last big-time election campaign that Kristin Halvorsen at the TV 2 public meeting in August said that it is not difficult to combat poverty. It's about political will. The poverty debate does not belong to much of a day. Unfortunately, it seems that the Government does not have the power to respond to this demanding challenge, and that is sin. It's a shame, because even though this is demanding, in the Right's view, it's about giving people a new chance in life. In this context, it is very positive the proposal that the representatives of the Progress Party have now made. The right is in principle in favour of several of the proposals contained in this Document No. The 8th proposal. That is why we fully support the intention behind the proposal. But because the proposals together will have consequences that it will be very difficult to get an overview without further investigation, it is difficult to go in for each of them. Some of the individual proposals are also somewhat skeptical, as the comments show. But in general, there are several of the proposals it is relevant to look at. This applies, inter alia, to: the proposal that the rules on free legal aid may also apply in disputes with the EQUs, that the legal time limits for dealing with the debt regime should be respected, and that measures to contribute to the reduction of collection fees should be implemented, as well as an assessment of a legislative amendment which would give greater opportunity to set the period of debt to zero years. Research shows that the group applying for a debt regime is scarce. Many have challenges in terms of health, intoxication and financial capacity. In the opinion of the Right, the consideration of the people concerned is that a certain decoration is made in the requirements of the law. For particularly resource-impaired debtors, the prospects for positive changes in the period of the debt regime will be small, and we cannot see that some decoration in the law at this point will reduce the general payment morale or be offensive to the creditors. In conclusion, I would like to say that the right has noticed the recordings that have come from the various bodies that have been at the hearing on this matter. Special Juss-Bus and the Debt Sacrifice Alliance I will give a tribute for the help they give to people in a difficult situation, to those people who may need this help most.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e194	Let me also pay tribute to the Progress Party for the proposal that has been put forward here, which is widely welcomed in the comments of a large majority. Of course, you might want to get a vote on each proposal, but I also think it has something to do with the seriousness of doing that together and get an overall assessment. What was also said, that it was a kind of marshall from the majority, I think is a good description, and at least as I understood it, the council itself is concerned with the situation of the victims. This is not always the case with the legal text itself, but with the way in which the individual who administers the public authority meets with the victims of the debt. If you want to act with flexibility, maybe a lot can be done without having to change too much on different legal texts. The goal must be to solve the problems with the debtors, not to break them. At the same time, of course, it is not in the interests of society to weaken the general payment morality. Liability assumes responsibilities that are necessarily to be expected to be followed up. But debt problems also arise without the payment morality being the cause. In such situations, we know that it's the debtor, not the creditors, which is most often the weak party today. In its assessment of the individual proposals, the Councils of State have inter alia: referenced to the hearing in progress in relation to the organisation of public procurement and to ongoing work on the Debt Regulations Act. We know, as was also said by the rapporteur, that there are several departments involved, so good coordination is absolutely hopeful. When, on the part of the Christian People's Party, we do not vote positively for the individual proposals, but speak positively of them in the comments, we do so in confidence that the intention is taken seriously. In the ongoing consultation processes that are now taking place, we expect both this proposal and a previous proposal from the Christian People's Party, which was discussed one year ago, and which deals with much of the same, to be taken into account and evaluated collectively in the Government, for example. «green number» means, for debt-stricken, call-back obligations in the case of credit purchases and better protection of liabilities. It is not just about measures to get people out of the debt trap, but so much about preventing people from getting there in the first place. I think that both government parties and opposition parties have a common desire to make the situation better, and if we now approach a period of more rush -- to call it that -- in the national economy, there is absolutely reason to be on guard. The government has a large professional apparatus that it can use to investigate and propose effective measures that provide debt-related better protection, and I hope that is the basis for the work that the Government is doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e207	As others have done, I would also like to thank the Progress Party for Document No. The 8th proposal. It is an important and very demanding matter. It's a very big dilemma that the Stortinget is facing here, because we, as legislators, are concerned that people are going to pay for themselves. One should settle separately. One shall be a legitimate economic person who takes the responsibility of buying a service or a good. At the same time, as legislators, we need to give people in economically problematic situations a real chance to get out of the situation they are in. If we tighten too much on one side or the other, this will lead to a new behaviour from, for example: those who sell a good or a service, which can easily result in those who are least involved, becoming more difficult to obtain from the better-fed people. What is well the purpose of this discussion is to ensure that the least is possible in such a situation. At the same time, as much as possible comes out of it, if they want to sail-- and I'll underline it: if they sail will. The dilemmas that we face here are parallel to other dilemmas that we face in society in terms of reactions and the possibility of rehabilitation in difficult situations, one of different reasons might arise. There is a balance between the responsibility for the weight of debt in relation to its own efforts and the responsibility of those who give credit. Those who are creditors have a greater risk of losing money, by selling it, for example. The laws and regulations of the authorities balance these interests. What may be particularly intimidating is the behaviour of the authorities which is the result of unpaid tax or levy. I have many examples that it is more difficult to obtain indebted arrangements, payment arrangements and chords from the public than from individuals or businesses that have given the indebted credit. There are many individuals who have come into an economic situation where, on account of the causes of the problems, it is too difficult to get back on track economically, and that is the point of those who have tabled the proposal. There are good input from the Debt Victims Alliance at the committee's proceedings, and I think, as many have said, that the attitude of the Government at the Finance Minister is positively seeking to balance this. We in the Center Party feel very comfortable that this is a priority area from the Ministry of Finance, and we are very pleased about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e218	I take the floor to stress that what is the purpose of this Document No. The 8 proposal and the commitment that lies behind it are shared by the Government, and we're doing an important work on this that involves several ministries. That is also evident from my response to the Committee. In addition, I would just like to highlight some of the issues raised by several speakers in the debate, namely how important it is to focus on the prevention work in these areas. Once the problems have grown one at a time, there are many of the solutions that the Progress Party is addressing, but I think that perhaps especially the public sector at a much earlier time can make contact with people who see themselves refusing to have contact. It is this that is the starting point of the report made by the tax authorities, which was actually made on the basis of an initiative by Jon Skau. He told me how he, as an individual, was able to get into a problem that just grew and grew and became completely unmanageable because he refused to open window envelopes, did not dare call the Equation Office, was not visited by the Equation Office when they saw that he had problems, etc. The tax authorities have taken this very seriously in that they now want to get into active contact with people who, because of illness or things that happen in the family or otherwise in life, are unable to deal with the equality authorities. It's a part that's got it like that. If you can get in touch at an early stage, you can prevent problems from getting big. I am very pleased that the tax authorities have started that work, because that means that we get fewer people who end up in major debt problems related to paying their taxes. Of course, we should also focus on the other proposals, which are primarily about those that have had problems anyway. But I think that's a huge amount we can pick up by having a preventive perspective, a friendly and constructive tone and trying to solve problems in collaboration with taxpayers -- instead of just growing and growing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e231	No more people have asked for the word on case 2. [[See page 2222]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e248	"We're going to create values, but it doesn't matter how we do it." It's a motto that one of our larger investment funds has. The same motto could perhaps be applicable to the State pension fund - to the extent that both the domestic part and the slightly larger foreign part. After all, the ethical guidelines presented by the Cooperative Government to the Stortinge in the previous period are based on the fact that we have two overarching ethical considerations in the management of the nation's savings capital: It is ethical in itself - above all to those who come after us - to secure a financial return that is proportionate to the risk of the investments. Creating values through sound capital management is valuable in more than one way. But we do not accept that it happens through the production of products or production methods for which we as society will not be co-responsible. I - and I think more with me - have with interest also registered the Minister of Finance's commitment to assure the outside world that the State pension fund is a professional, predictable and open actor who does not make investments for political reasons. At the latest in the Financial Times, the Minister of Finance was aware of the blessings that the free flow of Norwegian investment capital brought to the international capital markets, and why some governments should therefore abandon any ideas on the specific regulation of national government funds. I also registered with interest the strong stress the Minister of Finance gave both in this article and in the opening of the Department's ethics seminar a few weeks ago that the fund should of course not be a tool for politically motivated investment decisions. So the question is whether that view is shared by her party trap that I've referred to in the introduction of this interpellation. Enough about that. I think basically the Minister of Finance and I can agree that there does not have to be any contradiction between maintaining a clear distinction between politics and capital management and at the same time having ambitions to further develop the ethical framework. After all, the Ministry has launched an evaluation of the ethical guidelines and will present its conclusions in 2009. My hope with this interpellation is that it can be a play to perhaps hear a little about how the finance minister thinks in that way, and what we have in store. I hope it's something good! As you know, two main mechanisms are in place to ensure the ethical considerations of the administration: ownership exercise and an extraction mechanism. For some, it may be possible that extractions should be phased out, that new mechanisms should be excluded, and that ownership should be fully exercised in order to safeguard ethical considerations. I basically agree that ownership -- when there is reason to believe that it will work over time -- should be a preferred instrument. But at the same time it also has its clear constraint. The effect of ownership is that other investors and the management of the companies are convinced that changing practices is both in their long-term financial interests and in our long-term financial interests. It is reasonable to have the Bank of Norway decide how ownership is to be exercised, within the same transparency requirements and for reporting that apply to the rest of the administration. At the seminar, transparency was also a question. We were - and we'll see if it keeps going - reassured that the next annual report will show a great deal of transparency. Then the question of transparency is taken care of both for the share and, not least, for the bond component, which may be more demanding. Norway is leading a work in the OECD in the fight against tax havens, but we cannot ignore the fact that the bond part of our foreign fund is also challenging in this way. Combining this is not always a simple problem. Since we cannot accept that ethical considerations in the administration should be limited by which questions the Bank of Norway considers it appropriate to address, I believe that it must also focus on other instruments. Unfortunately, it is not that ethics and shop always go hand in hand. Then the ethics should not be set aside, in our opinion. It is well known from previous votes in this House that we believe that tobacco is in a special position among the world’s legal products in one area: even with ‘normal use’, which the manufacturers themselves would recommend, tobacco causes a significant likelihood of serious health damage and shortening life. Just a few days ago, on the leading side of the International Herald Tribune, there was a clear warning about what tobacco producers are now actually doing. It describes how tobacco now kills more than tuberculosis, AIDS and malaria combined, and that most of this occurs in the poor countries and with aggressive behaviour from tobacco companies that are striking. It is at least as recognised as an international conclusion that the use of the class weapon causes particularly large civil suffering through the frequency of untonened deadliers remaining. As you know, this is the basis for excluding producers of class weapons from the investment universe. But even though we relate to what has been agreed upon in the Storting, there is a basis for asking some questions. We have established a relatively comprehensive quality assurance process for extraction. We fully support that. The consequences of this process so far have been mainly to exclude arms producers. A very limited number of companies have also been excluded because of contributions to major environmental damage or a breach of employees' rights. As the process is now set up, I think there is a very limited risk that companies will be excluded from the investment universe on a false basis. However, it may be relevant to ask questions about whether the process itself causes serious events that we absolutely do not want to contribute to, yet do not have practical consequences for our investments. The ethical guidelines include, for example: gross corruption set up as a criterion which should lead to extraction, but so far no company is excluded on this basis. At the same time, we see that Storebrand has excluded ten companies on this basis, KLP has excluded five. The time does not allow me to give an example, but this is mentioned. We will also challenge the Minister of Finance to assess the further use of so-called positive selection on parts of the portfolio. Positive selection on the basis of environmental sustainability is carried out in a much more thoughtful way in the financial world today than the so-called environmental fund experiment, which was closed when the ethical guidelines for the whole fund were established. Positive selection is a type of administrative practice that Norway’s Bank will hardly implement on its own initiative. But the reason for this isn't that it's probably hard to lose. The problem for a fund manager is that the differences in returns can become large over a limited period of time compared to a portfolio of shares without such selection. Therefore, if we want to develop positive selection as one of several instruments for ethical reasons, the Ministry of Finance must take the initiative through adjusted guidelines. We look forward to hearing that if the Minister of Finance could imagine. We are also aware that investment in unlisted shares, property and infrastructure is now to be opened up. I just want to point out that it also presents new challenges in the area we are talking about here. The possibilities are there, in our opinion, to contribute, through our capital and within today's purpose, to the positive development of companies such as: can provide new answers to the climate challenges. The objective, of course, is to continue to receive a long-term financial return. State pension fund - Foreigners have attracted a lot of international attention, and although we want to go further, I would like to say that it is both exciting and challenging even when you are abroad to hear what the fund actually receives in terms of its management. We should be grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e280	First, I would like to thank Mr Syversen for his commitment in this area. I am myself deeply involved in how we manage the State pension fund, not only because it is my job, but also because this is a problem that we have been following for a long time. It was the SV that first addressed the issue of ethical guidelines in 1999, but it has become the joint ownership of the Stortinget since the co-operation administration presented the proposal for ethical guidelines in 2004. We have now developed and experienced them over a period of time, and it is right, as the representative Syversen says, that during 2008, we are now facilitating a process in which we are to evaluate the ethical guidelines, look at how they work, and then in spring 2009, we are going to present to the Stortinget any proposals for changes. But this interpellation gives us a loving opportunity to maybe not conclude today, but to discuss a little bit openly about the State pension fund. Let me start from among other things. The following: First, our fund is now one of the world's largest funds. There's a lot of international attention about how we manage the fund. This represents approximately an annual gross domestic product, i.e. NOK 2000 billion. ==References== 15 pst. of our gross domestic product enters the fund each year. Of course, it's huge. There is a major international debate, because a number of countries fear state funds that may have reasons for their investment other than economic interests, and there is a lack of transparency about the investment strategy of different funds. Norway is the best example in the world of how to ensure transparency about the fund’s investment strategy. It's very important that everyone in the Biggest and everyone who talks about this in different contexts is involved in showing how we ensure that transparency. Now that transparency hasn't come of itself. It is clear that when people's savings are managed, the people must also have the opportunity to see how it is invested and what the ethical guidelines are, so it is in line with our long democratic traditions that we have so much openness about this. It is also very important to stress that the Ministry of Finance, which has the job on behalf of the owners, namely the Norwegian people, does not interfere with individual investments, but that it is Norway’s Bank that makes the investments. Because in many countries it is believed that there are large-scale representatives or the finance minister or who it might be who are calling around and fixing investments for different companies. This is not the case in Norway, and it can never happen. There is a broad political consensus on that. It's right, as the representative Syversen says, that making money, or making sure that the fund has a good return, is an ethical task in itself. Because once we've chosen to create a fund, it's so that not only our generation, but also future generations will benefit from the values it involves taking a natural resource, switching into dollars and managing it further. So it's for the sake of future generations that we need to secure a good return on the fund. But of course, it's related to the fact that it's going to happen at a moderate risk, and because we're probably so long-term investors that we're almost going to be in these markets forever, the ethical guidelines and objectives with them are also an important part of how to secure the future return of the fund. Because if you're going to be in different companies and stock markets forever, we know that our investments depend on the world moving in a better direction in terms of climate -- the cost of the opposite is much bigger -- and we know that we're going to depend on a world that evolves further in respect of human rights, etc. These are two sides of the same thing. We have developed the ethical guidelines in the light of what was set up by the Graver Committee in its time. I have to say that my starting point for the evaluation is that I am well pleased with the experience we have so far. We have excluded 25 companies. It is on the basis of advice from the Ethics Council that operates independently from the Ministry of Finance. 20 of these companies produce different kinds of weapons that we don't think are in line with the ethical guidelines, such as nuclear weapons, land mines or class bombs. Five of the companies are excluded because they engage in serious environmental activities or violate human rights. It is important to note that a state fund is subject to a high level of requirements in relation to the grounds for withdrawal. Private pension funds, for example, can allow themselves to be less thorough. But for us, it is important to have a high degree of transparency around the grounds for extraction - it characterises the work done by the Ethical Council - a justification for the extraction, the opportunity for companies to respond to the justification and publication of the justification when the extraction has taken place. There's a very important reason why many companies actually follow our lines, and that the ethical balances made in different companies have a lot of attention. The pension fund is a very large fund and has now invested in approx. 7 000 companies around the world. It goes without saying that if we manage to develop our ownership influence, it may be more important for us to get through on the ethical criteria of the fund than the possibility we have of withdrawing from some individual companies. The exercise of ownership - where I agree with the representative Syversen - has some challenges, not least in terms of transparency and evidence of what has actually been done. Norway’s Bank is constantly working to improve how this is to be done, but it is public in our country which companies we have invested in. We're going to have publicity about how we're going to act at general meetings, etc. But one challenge in the ethical ownership exercise is how to ensure a high level of publicity about what is happening, and whether to show a link between the ownership exercise carried out by the Bank of Norway on behalf of our fund and the results, the changes that may occur in the companies. It's clear that there's a much more winding road to prove our influence than it is to withdraw from a company. It is a challenge that I believe will be central to the evaluation of the ethical guidelines that are now taking place. So for single questions, for example: the question of whether we should conduct a positive selection in relation to the investments in the fund, an issue that has arisen, and which I expect will be an important part of the debate on the ethical guidelines. I don't see that we can have positive selection as the heading of the administration of the entire State pension fund. It will be a very demanding task, and it will require enormous competence to invest in such a large fund according to the kind of guidelines, and we will have quite major challenges in communicating that we do not have a political agenda for the whole fund. But what I'm counting on comes up as a proposal in the debate on the evaluation, is whether a small part of the fund can have a different heading or can become a separate fund where you run a positive selection, for example. based on a desire to participate in and invest in activities around the world that develop climate technologies. I think that is an interesting debate, but I think that in this case a very sharp distinction must be made between the pension fund as such and an investment strategy that will be completely different. As regards the issue of tobacco, I expect that it will come up in the discussion on the ethical guidelines - there will be several other individual areas that also come up in that discussion. I'm very happy to meet that. The Graver Committee concluded that tobacco should not be excluded because it was a legal remedy. But these are, of course, views that we can take up and discuss again. In April - which we have now started to do annually - we present a big message about the State pension fund. There we are reviewing the investment strategy, and then the process of evaluating the ethical guidelines will continue throughout 2008. There will be a separate consultation opinion on this, on which we invite people to join, and then the Stortinge will be presented with our conclusions until then. But I'd like to give an extensive hand to both the Finance Committee and the whole Stortinget with a view to being involved in the process that is now going on throughout 2008, and I'm also responsive to the recordings on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e306	I would like to thank you for the response to the interpellation, which I think promises well for the work that is now being done in the Ministry in assessing possibilities in the future in the light of the evaluation of the current guidelines, which is now taking place. I fully agree that if you want to make a positive selection, it can't apply to the entire investment universe. But now, as the Council of State itself has warned, when one sees possible investments outside of shares and outside bonds, it also offers opportunities to make such a positive selection to a different extent from today, and which I believe may involve investments that, overall, will provide very good social returns. Governments themselves cited eco-innovation as one example, without neglecting the objective of a good return on themselves. It must also be included as a criterion, in my opinion. I want to challenge the Council of State on a passage in the President's Annual Report. At the end of the speech he said the following: ‘When we place the funds of the pension fund, we are guests in the house of our neighbours. Therefore, the requirements for the management of ownership cannot be based solely on Norwegian values and attitudes. We have to assume that other countries can draw other people's distinctions between politics, ethics and administration. When we raise our index finger against a company, we also raise it against laws, regulations and practices in the countries where the company belongs and operates - and we do so as representatives of the Norwegian state." I'm a little unsure about how to interpret that kind of statement. First of all, I don't know what the governor thinks we're "guests in the house of our neighbours". These are investments, which make us owners, and to what extent you're a guest, I'm a little uncertain about. In fact, I think it's us, as investors, who have to impose standards on ourselves for what we invest in, and what we ourselves think we can stand for. It is our commitment to the mandate we have from the Norwegian people, in my opinion. I don't know how the council itself evaluates this, but it might be interesting to hear, because here I think there might be a hint that you think there is too much ethics on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e327	Let's interpret the governor in the best possible sense. For it's the Stortinget - we as elected representatives - the Government and the Ministry of Finance that represent the owners of the fund, and it's Norway's Bank that manages the fund on our order and according to our mandate and our guidelines. And I fully agree with the representative Syversen that we, as owners, have imposed ourselves, and wished that our savings should not just go where, perhaps in the short term, it would be the greatest return, if there is a danger that at the same time we will contribute to gross violations of human rights or serious environmental damage. And we're free to do that with our savings. We shall continue to do so, and that is what the debate on the future is about. But I think it's very important, as the discussion is now going on in the big world, where some countries and some companies fear strategic investment that is not about ethical guidelines in our sense, but is about buying up shares of companies to have control over them with a political heading, saying that our ethical guidelines - although, of course, in some debates you can say that they are political - are based on fundamental human rights, common values that we fight for, that the United Nations stands for, and that should be common ownership in all countries. To say that there should be a particularly rude behaviour from a guest, I would say is completely contrary to the thinking behind the ethical guidelines of the pension fund. What is very important is to be able to develop the ethical ownership that the Bank of Norway has to exercise on our behalf. Because it's about how we act as owners. And because today we have a constraint on our investments of 5 pst. -we can't own more than 5 pst. in each company, the average being 0,5 pst. - we are small owners who must ally with other owners. And it does. In addition, I think that an interaction between the extraction mechanisms and the ethical ownership exercise may be interesting to look at in the future. For example, one might imagine situations in which the Ethics Council recommends an extraction, but where it is asked to go in and see if there is any possibility of influencing a company, then to address the issue of extractions for new treatment at a later stage in order to see if a company has come some way. Here, I think there are some possibilities for better interaction between the tools we have for the ethical ownership exercise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e338	There is a great deal of international attention, as has been said, about the State pension fund - Foreign. Out there, we gain great recognition, not least for our transparency and how we discharge our ethical responsibilities. At home, there is a correspondingly large political focus on the State pension fund - abroad. We were able to document this, inter alia. in the previous debate on the management of the State pension fund in June 2006, where we raised the share of the fund from 40 to 60 p.m. We are once again given the opportunity to discuss various aspects of the fund here today through the interplay of the Christian People's Party. And then we get a new opportunity to get back to it when the announcement of the fund for 2007 comes later in the spring session. At the same time - and this is positive - we have been told that there is a broad consensus in the Storting that the main strategy should be firm. The exception is the Progress Party, which was opposed to both increasing its share and is afraid of strict ethical requirements. I'm proud that we have ethical guidelines that help to avoid gross violations of human rights, such as child labour, gross forms of environmental damage or corruption. I refer here to the International Ethics Conference in January - where several of those present here were involved - where the start of a broad evaluation process of the ethical guidelines. This process is important and gives us the opportunity to verify the correct functioning of the guidelines, and not least the ability to record any improvements. I think there are several reasons why the State pension fund - abroad is reaping a lot of recognition. Both the Bank of Norway and the Ministry of Finance have been good at informing us about the management model we have in this area, both nationally and internationally. I believe one important reason for the positive reception out there is that the two actors together have the power to find out that there is a clear division of responsibility and work, on which the Council of State was involved, where the Ministry of Finance owns and the Bank of Norway manages the fund. Not least, it is important that Norway’s Bank makes decisions on individual investments on a commercial basis, and that is the department that manages the overall strategy for SPU. The size is presented with strategic choices, such as when we increased the percentage in relation to the share from 40 to 60 pst. So the Ethics Council plays an important role when the Department is going to make decisions to exclude companies. Both the division of labour and transparency are important to continue and should remain firm. As I see it, we have a clear goal of achieving the highest possible value of capital, but we don't go over equal to it to achieve it. The way we spread risks in many companies in different countries is a good way to show accountability, and through this we ensure the objective of high returns at an acceptable risk. This is important not least in relation to future generations. We are in a situation very many countries can envy us. If we continue to take care of ourselves as we have done so far, we secure resources for those who come after us. This leads to stability in production and employment, and it creates a good society for most of us. As I see it, Norway cannot be criticised for our political objectives for our investment strategies using the State pension fund - abroad. I think most people see that we have financial objectives, and that by spreading small holdings in companies in over 40 countries we are also internationally harmless. I would also like to point out that the State pension fund abroad is important in securing future pensions. It is estimated that our pension liabilities in this field will increase from 250 pst. by the value creation in mainland Norway today to about 350 pst. in the course of a few decades. So I'm glad we've got a broad pension settlement that will dampen the increase somewhat. This is another argument that we should be responsible for using funds in the pension fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e361	First of all, I would like to point out that the State pension fund has been created through large emissions of climate from our oil and gas industries, and that is a small paradox in the light of today's ethical debate. I want to repeat that representative Syversen quoted from the governor's recent year: ‘When we place the funds of the pension fund, we are guests in the house of our neighbours. Therefore, the requirements for the management of ownership cannot be based solely on Norwegian values and attitudes. We have to assume that other countries can draw other people's distinctions between politics, ethics and administration. When we raise our index finger against a company, we also raise it against laws, regulations and practices in the countries where the company belongs and operates - and we do so as representatives of the Norwegian state." These are wise words from the governor. A more direct warning against further tightening of the practice of the guidelines is not possible, and it is not possible to interpret the way in which the Minister of Finance made a poor attempt instead. The central bank manager points out that the Progress Party has so far only had to falsify, namely that ethics per person. definition is subjective and it is an imperialist idea to exclude companies because they do not meet Norway’s definition of ethics in 2008. Today, when we consider child labor to be unethical, we reap homage from the vast majority. We do not want to use children for work in Norway. Children are going to school. The Progress Party fully agrees with this. But such an attitude toward children's everyday lives is relatively young in our country. And in the historical context, Norway has used child labour in a number of contexts. I recently concluded a book on the history of history in Norway, where it was pointed out that the use used children all the way down to the age of ten until the 1920s. In agriculture, children were still used later, as was the commercial fleet and not least the mining industry of the country. The Progress Party agrees that it would be best if child labour did not exist, but we disagree that it is Norway’s task to condemn countries that build wealth by using the same market mechanisms that have made Norway rich. Not least, this is wrong when we go through research reports, for example. from Bangladesh, confirmed that the option for these children is neither play nor school, but child prostitution and begging. We can imagine how Norwegian politicians would have reacted if other countries had set their ethical standards for our businesses. We would never accept that! Furthermore, the exercise of the ethical guidelines by the Government is inconsistent. Through the Cold War, Norway was protected by NATO's nuclear weapons umbrella. Many believe that this was the main reason why the West won the cold war. Today, all parties, apart from the Advance Party, define the production of components of such weapons as unethical, excluding the companies that contributed to our security during the post-war period. This applies to all the world's leading defence industries. But the inconsistency doesn't end there. Because while the Minister of Finance defines the defence companies as unethical, the Minister of Defence buys billions every year from the same companies. Yes, the Minister of Defence even obliges these companies to conclude industrial cooperation agreements with Norwegian companies through repurchase agreements. The government claims that somehow it's ethically wrong to make money by investing in the world's leading defense equipment supplier, Lockheed Martin, while it's ethically acceptable to buy material from the same company. How can it be unethical to invest, while at the same time it is ethical to contribute to the company's performance? Then it's interesting to look at the party SV, who wants to boycott Jaffa oranges from Israel -- as an ethical and moral act toward Israel. So it's unethical to buy Jaffa oranges. The important thing to notice in this context is that the companies Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, EADS, Honeywell and others do not take the lead in producing components for nuclear weapons. This is a task imposed on businesses by their respective national authorities, because it is part of their security policies and their global responsibilities. Or to quote again the governor: «When we raise our index finger against a company, we also raise it against laws, regulations and practices in the countries in which the company belongs and operates». The practice is also double-moral with regard to the purchase of debt securities. The government has chosen to exclude purchases from Burma, but has not excluded the purchase of debt securities in Saudi Arabia, Syria, Iran, Venezuela, Sudan, Zimbabwe, Cuba, Pakistan and China, to name a few - all countries where human rights violations are an integral part of their legal principles. The Party considers that the exercise of the ethical guidelines is not in accordance with its intention. We are pleased that we have the support of the Governor in this view. The Progress Party wants the Government to review all companies excluded from the investment portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e405	Let me first say that it is important that the views of Tybring-Gjedde, too, are expressed in this debate. There is considerable scope in the debate on the ethical guidelines. But at the same time, I would like to remind the representative Tybring-Gjedde that the current leader of the Progress Party, a former financier spokeswoman, Siv Jensen, was an avid champion of the ethical guidelines - together with SV's Øystein Djupedal. So there was a considerable pressure from the Progress Party in the last period to get the guidelines that today's government is following. In my view, it is more important that we use the forces to develop the ethical guidelines so that they serve ethical and not political purposes than that we should spend time and effort finding many reasons to go away from the ethical guidelines. I am pleased that the representative Hans Olav Syversen is raising this debate today. The fund is of such size and has such a great international importance that transparency and debate on investment strategy are important, and it is important - I would stress - that there are clear roles in how ownership is to be managed. I agree with the representative Hans Olav Syversen that the starting point must be to ensure the highest possible return on money in the pension fund. It's important to stick to it. It is our future pension money and our future well-being managed, and even a marginally lower return will have major future consequences for our well-being and for future pensions. I also agree that the ethical guidelines underlying today are sensible. We are also open to the debate announced by the Minister of Finance, namely that we should now review the ethical guidelines in order to assess whether they work as intended and, of course, whether or not further development is needed and desirable. But we will not take a position on what direction it should go until we see the evaluation presented by the Minister of Finance. Let me also stress that there is a hairy balance on a very tight line between what can be put under the ethical hat, and what is and will be interpreted as politics. I would therefore like the Minister of Finance, in his final statement, to clarify his position on the Hans Olav Syversen's interpellation, where he points out that Minister of the Environment and Development Erik Solheim in an opinion announced that the fund could be used for politically motivated investments. Once that issue has been raised, I think it is important for the Minister of Finance to clarify his position on it. As I said, it is important to be on the right side of what will be perceived as, and what is, politically motivated investment and management of the pension fund. We already know today that some of our embassies have had to spend a lot of resources explaining that it is not politics, but ethics that underpins the assessments that have been made. Even greater are the challenges and balances if ownership management is also to be used to promote ethical purposes. I'm just pointing out these challenges. Here there is a significant balance sheet, and the Right will strongly warn against the development of ownership management and ethical guidelines that will be perceived as, and, in reality, a political governance of the investments of the pension fund. We believe that there should be ethical guidelines, but that they should not be politically motivated investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e427	It's exciting to belong to the generation that now gets the opportunity to be in and manage what we've harvested through one generation, and that's been lying on the seabed and making up millions of years. Randomly, I and the rest of the Norwegian potion are allowed to participate in and manage this fund, which has become a significant player in the world arena as well. I am very pleased that when we now have a debate on this in advance of the review of the ethical guidelines, there are several who point out that it is just a self-esteem, an ethical value in managing our financial assets. I don't have numbers on how many people have contacted me over the years I've been on the Storting, who want us to influence us to invest in special companies of different denominations, because one believes that the financial ethical value of managing a wealth that will last for generations to come is not a good enough value in itself. I think we still have to base that on. I do not agree with Mr Tybring-Gjedde that we should have an ethically closest value-relativism related to what we should or should not invest in. I believe that it must be allowed on behalf of the Norwegian State, on behalf of the fund we now manage, to base what has been said in the world community, for example, in the United Nations Global Compact, that these are fundamental values of an ethical nature that must be relatively universal throughout the world. I fully agree that there are ethical dilemmas and barriers in this, as the representative Tybrung Gedde mentioned. I believe, however, that it must be allowed to argue that Norwegian property in the form of investment in companies cannot help trample on fundamental human rights. Then the question is when to go further, if it is possible to imagine a more comprehensive use of ethical guidelines to promote issues beyond the basic human rights, which it is very easy to look at. Climate challenges are an obvious issue. One step we have already taken is that the State pension fund - abroad has joined the so-called Carbon Disclosure Project, CDP, which is the largest association of institutional investors in the world, asking companies all over the world to report their greenhouse gas emissions. It's not a construction where you point to which companies you have to invest, but it's an association where, to those degrees, you get to see what kind of emissions the different companies have, and what kind of strategies the companies have to meet them. It's very exciting, and here we can also use the State pension fund - Foreign in the future to be an institutional investor. In order to solve the climate challenges, we have to sort of ally ourselves a little with the capital, at least I mean now. It has two sides. One is that transparency around climate issues stimulates action on its own. But it also has a financial side. Large institutional investors such as: CalPERS, the large pension fund in California, points out that in the future investing in companies that do not have real, good strategies to meet the climate change that will come will also involve more risky investments. It's a very exciting thought -- if we could pursue it further by being part of and being an influence agent to get more companies to join it, instead of sitting quietly and believing that everything should go over. Because it's not going to happen, and unfortunately it will also affect the market value of companies and also our investment in the future. So I'm facing a very thorough review of this. I'm going to be humble that there are many ethical challenges and a balance between political investment and more self-interesting assessments that may not be valid around the world. But I believe that a small country like Norway, with the amazing wealth we have, also has to look at what kind of space of action we have to influence a capital market, companies that have great influence across the world. It can be our role in the future, also in climate issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e440	I would like to thank you for the debate. It provides the basis for a wide-ranging exchange of views when the Government finally proposes possible changes to the ethical guidelines. I agree with the representatives of Micaelsen and Alf E. Jakobsen said that this should happen without letting go of the main purpose of the fund, namely to make sure that we place the money so that we also have the opportunity to provide pensions for future generations. It's an ethical obligation in itself. Then I would like to give the representative Tybring-Gjedde the honor that he certainly contributes to the breadth of the debate. It's clear. I also think that Tybring-Gjedde pointed to dilemmas that should not be taken lightly. But I don't agree that the answer to the dilemmas is to stretch our hands in the weather and say, no, we don't have the power to do anything, we, so then we put ourselves flat, and then we leave the capital raw one-sided. At least that's not our starting point for the answer to the dilemmas that also Tybring-Gjedde was in. As Jan Tore Sanner said, the gap between ethics and politics is not easy. It's not just saying that these are ethical considerations, it has nothing to do with politics. It is clear that ethics does not occur in any vacuum either. It doesn't come from nothing. It's also an expression of certain basic ethical values that you bring with you. But even if at least someone thinks that you should just stretch your hands in the weather and say that sorry, this is getting too difficult, it's working on this difficult topic that is the challenge, and that I think has the future ahead. Because it is clear that the focus around the Pension Fund is also positive in the sense that it provides a direction for the development of investments that not only affect the Pension Fund that we own but that have aroused interest far beyond it. This in itself can affect positive changes in general. So I feel that with regard to this particular one-sided use of policies as a motivation for investment, the Minister of Finance has parked his fellow Councillor, at least very indirectly. It's okay. I think there's a lot of consensus about this house as well. However, in my view, the challenge is to be able to see the possibilities when we are now going to revise the guidelines, to look at positive selection for a small part of the fund, for example. to promote something as forward-looking as environmental investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e454	I would like to thank you for an important debate. I should really like to see more of these, because there's a huge focus on the Pension Fund in international contexts. It's about two things. It's about how we manage the fund, and about what transparency, and what is our investment strategy -- and we're set as an example that any other fund should follow -- and it's about the ethical guidelines. And when we have so far managed to have that balance of showing both how transparent we have, how we are financial investors and not strategic investors, and at the same time have ethical guidelines, we have made it clear that the balance sheet - which we must continue to do in the future as well. That's what has to be our challenge as we move on to assessing the ethical guidelines. I think the head of the central bank would be very uncomfortable if he was told that what he is doing is an imperialism on behalf of the Norwegian people, when basic human rights are managed that cannot be said to be politically controversial around the world, but that is shared by the United Nations and worked around. So I would like to stress again that it is we who own the State pension fund, and it is Norway's Bank who manages the pension funds on our behalf. This debate shows that there is a very broad consensus in the Storting on the ethical guidelines we have today, and on the process that we are going to pursue in the future. It has a very big value in itself, because these are big values, it's a very big fund, and it's long-term investment. The Graver Committee stressed the principle of overlapping consensus in relation to the principles to be applied in relation to the ethical guidelines, and it is important that this should be widely welcomed. It's just when it comes to the Progress Party, I'm wondering what you really mean. For the Progress Party - it is quite right that the representative Sanner said - was a strong driver in the last period, together with SV, to get ethical guidelines. There is nothing of that representative Tybring-Gjedde brings up here, who was not illuminated that time. It's a dilemma that we're pulling out of companies that we're also dealing with. But that dilemma has gone through, and you didn't realize that you can't leave out strict demands on how we invest our savings, even though it may be difficult to act in a world society. The advantage of being a customer and not the investor is that then one picks at least the goods a buyer. We must not buy nuclear weapons or cluster bombs or land mines. This is a balance that we want. I record that Tybring-Gjedde's involvement is greater on behalf of the arms industry than on behalf of the ethical guidelines. I think that will be the problem of the Progress Party, not our problem. I look forward to further good cooperation on the debate. President, I forgot a little comment to the representative Sanner. Can I take it? I would like to make it quite clear, as I have done both in the media and in previous posts, that I do not see it as current policy to have a positive selection for the entire State pension fund. Neither does the Council of State Erik Solheim. But the debate that is going to take place is whether a small part of the Pension Fund is going to be used for positive selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e471	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e487	I think I'll start with what I've also written in the interpellation text, namely that I know that there are a lot of competent, pleasant and conscientious people working on this field, and that they have a huge amount of work. Nevertheless, I think there may be some signals from the political environment that have not arrived, and that there are some cultures that sit down. That is why I have chosen to raise this as an interpellant debate and not as a private proposal, and hope that the Council of State will also participate in a slightly more reflective round of how we can reverse trends, how we can create cultures that do not undermine the political desires we have. In the legal security system, we have set some procedural requirements. This applies to the rules of procedure of the Administrative Act, which include, inter alia: flexibility, obligation to provide guidance, professional secrecy and a number of other things. Then we have some unwritten rules that the procedure should be sound. And we have some unwritten standards that are about good governance, but also about good peoples. Trust in a democracy is based on a closeness, an understanding of the motivation for action, a sense of justice, and also a sense of equal treatment, and proper treatment. What has come to light through work for many years in this field is that many people feel very lawless during treatment in this system. I want to give six main examples of things that we often encounter. The first is that there is a very long process time - we have known that for a long time - but also that you get incorrect information about what is the process time. Let me take an example from a letter I have received: ‘We applied for a so-called engagement visa 16/2 2007 at the embassy in Ankara. We were told that the treatment period is 6 months. When I returned to Norway, I checked with UDI’s websites. It didn't say six, but eight months of treatment. In the summer/summer, treatment duration increased to 9 months [[I see that UDI has now put it down to 10 on its websites.]] Another problem is that very many people spend a very long time in the queue on UDI's information phone. It was actually an initiative to make it easier to identify applications and to make it easier to obtain information on applications. As one writes to us: ‘UDI’s information telephone is a small useful measure. After up to an hour in queue -- sometimes longer, sometimes shorter, you didn't get any answers to any of the world's things. They did not know where the application was in the order, could not say anything about the treatment time beyond what was on the websites.’ Another printer: «First, you sit on the phone for 40 minutes and wait for answers. When you finally get there, they can't really explain what you're asking. Why must it be so difficult? [[...]] A third element is all the letters that are not answered. According to the Norwegian administrative law, all letters must be answered. We don't know that's happening. I'm quoting again: “I then wrote to the UDI asking why they claimed that the purpose of the stay was uncertain when the purpose was to visit me. I did not get an answer to this question. This surprised me, when I thought that both I and the visa seekers had a claim for a better reason." Another printer: ‘I made two written enquiries in letter form with specific questions during the period. I have not received an answer to these to date. I was told by a friend of the embassy system that they did not respond to general enquiries." [[UD]] My fourth point is what very many people experience that is very painful, especially related to visa applications, and that is suspicion. Here we have a lot of examples. I can quote from one: "In the period before the grant, we applied twice for a tourist visa for my girlfriend, and I made an unofficial enquiry to the immigration officer at the embassy. What we experienced there was a code that suspected all applicants as potential cellars and hoppers who were to be rejected at any price." Another printer: “I was informed by UDI that the rejection had been forwarded to the Department of Foreign Affairs, while they informed me that the case had been sent to the police. I contacted the Haugesund Police Chamber to answer questions, and they gave the impression that they had no objections against receiving visits from friends in Peru. [[on visa]] [[I became 'heaven', and began to wonder if it was to me something uncertain about!]] I was treated very kindly, but they clearly expressed their dissatisfaction that the UDI would burden them with such “fills” and said they had other things to spend time with. They said they were abandoned over the UDI, as they said had evolved into a state in the state." The fifth point concerns incomprehensible refusals/bad reasons. Here I also have a lot of examples. I'm not going to go into detail about them right now, but people feel that they're getting unwarranted rejections, are justified by information that doesn't exist, or are justified by information that they couldn't possibly have known they should have given. The sixth point is case handlers who follow the rule line completely slavish. Here's a good example. Someone has written to me: ‘We had applied to get au pair from the Philippines. The contract was completed, but we heard nothing from UDI. Finally we contacted him. After three quarters of the phone queue and a lot of argumentation with the telephone guard, we finally got to talk to our case handler. [[...]] She said that we had not filled in the contract correctly. After the correct number of hours that are legal, we would unfortunately have written: ‘Maybe there will be some extra work if there is a crisis in the home. The salary will then increase’. We'd thought of a sudden illness or something like that. But it wasn't allowed! Au pairs should work up to 30 hours a week. Basta. Okay, we said. - Can't you just delete that sentence and we'll sign it again as an employer? - This is just for the au pair. But no! The contract was not properly completed and it had to be before she began to process the application. That is, we had to: write a new contract, fax it to the Manila Embassy, our future au pair had to travel five hours to Manila -- again -- to sign, and then fax it back to the UDI. As a result, the case handler could finally start looking at the matter. Is it nice to be slow in that system? It is part of the story that it took us a year to get permission." Now I've drawn six different points out, and I have to all the points a lot of examples of things. There are problems that citizens experience in everyday life, in the face of a system that is probably overworked, but where it has also developed a culture for the real purpose of managing an immigration stop - while in this house there has been a major change in the attitude towards labour immigration, in the attitude towards visas, in the attitude of girlfriend associations, etc. I feel that the attitude change has not occurred downwards in the system. That's why I think it's important that we politicians give signals down the system that there might not be a crisis if our lecturer in Haugesund gets a visit from his friends from Peru. It's quite incomprehensible to people when they, for example. appears on the list of visa-free countries and sees that Guatemala, Honduras, Chile, Costa Rica and Nicaragua are visa-free, while at the same time it is very important to stop a university secretary from Lima from visiting his friend in Haugesund. There's a lot of examples like this that you've come up with over time, and that's why I wanted to collect all of this. My challenge to the Council of State is whether you can do some bigger thing to solve this, whether you can turn cultures -- and also try to give political signals that today's challenge is not necessarily to stop everyone who wants to have friends on visit, and that there might be a slightly different focus in this administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e550	The representative, Skei Grande, addresses an important topic, which there is every reason to take seriously. It concerns both information, guidance, accessibility, how to be met by government employees and the length of the procedure. Let there be no doubt that the Government aims to have a comprehensive, efficient and user-oriented foreign management. The Commission, which examined the Foreign Affairs Directorate in the spring of 2006, criticised the quality of the proceedings. Following the review, a major follow-up work has been carried out both in the Department and in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs has implemented a number of measures to ensure the necessary quality of the procedure. This means that the Directorate for Foreign Affairs is now using more resources per year. I'm sorry. The work of putting the user in focus and developing the service in the foreign administration is done systematically and at several levels. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have now developed a common service strategy for the Foreign Administration for 2008-2011. Its purpose is to focus users on all parts of the foreign administration. The strategy points to some overall service objectives and bet areas for the period. Each activity shall draw up an action plan for its own area of responsibility, based on the objectives and challenges it faces. A user survey shall also be carried out in 2008. Anyone working in the foreign administration should know about the service strategy whether they have direct contact with the users or not. All shall show respect for the needs of users, both in service and information tasks and in the role of controller. This includes, inter alia: that applications are to be processed within a reasonable period of time and that applicants are to receive good and comprehensible information in the course of proceedings and when they receive an answer to the application. Users shall meet with kindness, transparency and respect, and the staff of the foreign manager shall act in such a way that users are given confidence in the proper handling of applications. The areas for service for the years 2008-2011 are: effective, legal certainty and predictable process at all stages of the management of aliens, coherent, coordinated and targeted information to users, personal service and transparency to all persons making contact; In recent years, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs has seen a sharp increase in the number of cases, particularly in the areas of labour immigration, family immigration and citizenship. This has given rise to major challenges, including providing adequate and good service. In 2007, the Foreign Affairs Directorate dealt with 91 000 cases, 32 pst. more issues than in 2006. Foreign subjects dealt with in 2007 12 000 complaints, 1000 more than one year earlier. I am pleased that the capacity has increased, and that the number of pending cases during 2007 was reduced - in the Foreign Affairs Directorate by 17 p.m. and in the Foreigner’s issue of 27 p.m. As the number of pending cases decreases, so does the time taken to deal with them. In order to increase its capacity, the Foreign Affairs Directorate received an additional allocation of 82.5 million in spring 2007. kr, and UDI increased the crew by about 150 years. The appropriations continued in 2008. Both I and UDI are aware that the level of service in the foreign administration can and should be improved. A number of measures to improve user service have therefore been taken in 2007. UDI's information service has increased staffing. The average waiting time on the phone has been reduced from approx. 20 minutes at the beginning of 2007 to 7 minutes at the end of the same year. In 2007, 118 000 telephones were answered. That's an increase of 16 pst. from the previous year. In addition, 34 000 e-mails were answered. Furthermore, UDI has established its own employer service, which means that employers can contact UDI's case handlers directly by telephone or by e-mail. This has been very well received. In October 2007, a service centre for foreign workers was opened on the island of Tøen in Oslo. This is a cooperation between the UDI, the police, the tax administration and the Labour Inspectorate. The service centre provides better and faster service to people applying for a work permit and to their employers. This is a test project which will gradually be expanded to several sites. Increased efforts in 2007 have thus been positive and, as already mentioned, have produced results. I would also like to mention that the UDI has adopted an overall strategy for the period 2007-2010, where the commitment to service is one of the main elements. A project has been launched for the introduction of full electronic processing in the foreign administration. Considerable efficiency gains can be expected here, which will also benefit the user. As part of this project, electronic self-service solutions are also provided for a number of application types. In addition, users should be given the opportunity to check their own status online. The 2007 revised national budget provided a first allocation of 15 million. kr, followed up in 2008. Another important strategic approach is to further differentiate the procedure. The UDI shall facilitate legal and desired immigration while at the same time preventing illegal immigration. The strategy proposes to spend less time and resources on issues that are experientially curative and concentrate a greater proportion of the resources on issues where the risk of misuse of the immigration provisions is high. Such differentiation would mean that curative matters could be dealt with more quickly. Developing systems to facilitate this is now under way. There is also a lot to learn from a better interaction and division of labour between the actors in the foreign field, i.e. UDI, police and foreign service. Police and foreign stations are currently the first line service for all applications for residence and work permits. The police are taking decisions in a significant number of cases. Most visa items are processed at foreign stations. In addition, many cases are in several instances before decisions are taken. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have therefore launched a separate project to review the flow of business throughout the administration of foreign affairs in order to achieve efficient resource use, rapid procedures, satisfactory quality and good service. Through better interaction between the different actors in the foreign field, increased processing capacity, new electronic solutions and a more differentiated procedure, I expect a large part of the users to experience an improved level of service in the next few years. The users of the administration shall meet with respect. It is also a fundamental prerequisite for the management of non-residents. A user survey in the autumn of 2007 shows that 89 pst. Of the people who had contacted UDI's information service, they said that they experienced being met with kindness and respect - this is up from 80 p.m. in a similar study for 2006. I would also like to mention that six-monthly studies are carried out on the theme ‘Trust in Norwegian Foreign Authorities’. The results of the December survey show that confidence in foreign authorities has never been greater since the survey started six years ago. Although developments in 2007 have been positive, and a number of measures have been put in place to improve the service, I still see that the provision of services to non-residents can be even better. There is also a systematic effort to improve this area. This is an area I will continue to focus on in the future. The strategies and reporting by the agencies on the achievement of results will be followed up by the Ministry to ensure that the foreign administration is seen as a service set in line with good governance, as is the work of Trine Skei Grande. Finally, I would like to mention that my department has initiated an external review of foreign policy in relation to the choice of decision-making form. The results of this review will be used as a basis for the work on the regulations of the new Foreign Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e598	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that there are enormous challenges in this field. I also understand that there are many positive things happening. I am particularly positive about a differentiation of the procedure, because it is perceived by Norwegian citizens in particular who want friends to visit, which is quite incomprehensible that there is going to be so much energy to do otherwise quite simple things as difficult as possible--so you have to understand. Then I am very positive about what is said about electronic processing. I would like to know if the Council of State has any progress plan for exactly this. It's part of the administrative law that I feel is important, both when you're working on visa applications, and when you're working on more serious issues, and that's the duty of information. I would like to quote from an e-mail from a resident who had filed an appeal against a refusal. He was informed that ‘they also stated that they had noticed that she’d – she who applied for a visa to come as her guest to Norway – ‘had work in her home country, but that there was no evidence that she had been given free/permit by her employer to travel to Norway’. In addition, it says: ‘I also cannot understand that this can be a valid argument. I actually thought that you are free to travel where you want on your holiday without any leave/permit from your employer.’ In any case, he had done this many times, including during a visit to other countries. It also says: "They also wrote that it was not documented that she was in possession of property or that she has other financial obligations in her country of origin. Why do you have to have this kind of documentation around the world? Should you have a debt in order to obtain a tourist visa to Norway? I asked UNE if the visa seeker had been made aware that such documentation is required. I did not get an answer to this." I believe that the obligation to provide information related to the background to the refusal may be solved by improving the procedure in an electronic way, because then everyone is told what they are actually going to say. But I have another challenge for the Council of State. It is to look at whether it is possible to think of Altinn as well in this respect - to give applicants a password and the opportunity to follow their application online - because it is clear that in the case of Servicetorget, we have received a lot of complaints that you really do not get an answer. An electronic processing process will make it even much easier to follow their case online and thus also get to know where it is in the queue, and what has happened to it since the last time. We are also very positive about the evaluation of UNE. The left wants such an evaluation. We also believe that it must be possible for some foreign stations to apply for visa applicants in a grey zone to report to the foreign station on return. This, in combination with e.g. a financial guarantee from the resident would allow the foreign stations to conduct a slightly more liberal visa practice in some cases. I wonder if the Council of State is willing to also assess such grips.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e632	What we need to be aware of in this matter is that we are moving in a border country between the desire for an effective procedure and the need for control. There is no doubt that there are many of them, for example: apply for a visa to Norway, which has a 100 pst. fair grounds, and which certainly experience the control to which they are subjected, as premature, that it leads to a long period of proceedings and that they do not intend at all to abuse the visa they may receive. But just because our experience is that others have completely different intentions, they also become people with a 100 pst. fair motive exposed to that type of control. It's hard when you're sitting with the application in front of you, just through the application to decide which of the two categories I now had, the applicant belongs to. But as long as we're going to have a visa policy in Norway, I think we have to take into account that a check is being carried out that leads to a number of questions that some people will experience as unreasonable from the point of view of their honest intentions. It is clear that the example that Trine Skei Grande now referred to - among other things. in certain contexts, it is assessed whether one has property and financial obligations in its home country - is about assessing whether one believes that there are strong return assumptions. Of course, you check the fact that if you do not have any obligations back in your home country - neither property nor financial obligations nor work - well, then the return assumptions are weaker than the other way around. I think we need to distinguish between a possible desire for a general liberalisation of visa policy and a criticism of the UDI regime. It doesn't necessarily have to be two sides of the same thing. Although I ask questions about the starting point of the interpellant through what I have said now, I still feel quite certain that as a base tone the interpellant and I have exactly the same intention that this should of course be checked and checked - but not more than what is needed, and in a proper, friendly and proper way. I agree with the interpellant that electronic processing is an important instrument. I am quite shocked that so many for so many years have allowed the UDI to function in the way they have - almost at a rock age level in terms of documents. I am therefore very pleased that we now have electronic processing in place, which means that the ambitions of the interpellant that people can follow their case online will be part of the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e650	As with the interpellant, of course, the Progress Party also believes that it should be a matter of course that users experience service and respectful treatment when in contact with the UDI when in contact with the UNE. There, as in all other parts of Norwegian administration, it should be a matter of course. But I have to say that as far as the Left's approach to this matter is concerned, I am, like the Council of State, a little bit concerned to see where the border goes between the very clear desire of the Left for a far, far more liberal immigration policy and what goes directly on the administrative level. To the extent that there is some control in the foreign field, it is clear that some users will experience a part of the procedure that may be a bit difficult. But it's an effect that you have to have control of the area. I'm questioning what the situation would have been if the Left with its very, very liberal immigration policy had been implemented. What had happened not least to the processing time, as the interpellant also took up. This, of course, would have led to far, far more applicants in the foreign area, who would have in turn led to longer queues and longer processing time. It is obvious that there is a link here between foreign policy and queues and processing time. It's not going to get out of hand. I have some problems seeing where the Left really stops talking about politics and rather talks about administration as such. It is positive that the Council of State is moving towards seeking a more differentiated procedure between areas where it is experienced to know that illegal applicants and people exploiting the system and areas which can actually be quite simple to deal with. I think that differentiation is important because we have subjects in the foreign field where there is much more abuse of permits than there is in other areas. Family immigration is such an area, and not least in the area of asylum it is absolutely the case. Then it's very positive that you signal a greater degree of differentiation. Secondly, I think it is a little special that Trine Skei Grande, on behalf of the Left, talks about signals and attitudes in the Stortinget, and about whether it should be implemented in relation to the administration. It is the policy change that management has to deal with. It is the decisions taken in the Grand Duchy, not possibly the positive and very liberal view of immigration, which must be reflected in this way. At the request of the Progress Party, we should have far stronger control of this field. But I'm saying that all the time we have a certain degree of control in this area, it's going to be dissatisfied users. I have personally received such enquiries from people who feel that they are being unfairly treated, who complain and feel that they are not being met with really good service. But what I often see is people who are dissatisfied with the rejections they have received. That's usually a reason people have been denied. As long as you have a discount on the foreign field, you'll never get 100 pst. user satisfaction. I hope that the Left does not want us to have 100 percent user satisfaction when it comes to UDI and UNE decisions. In that case, it is the very, very liberal immigration policy of the Left. It certainly does not want me to see completed in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e665	I would like to start by saying that I think the Council of State in its contribution came with many positive signals. It is good that we have got a common service strategy that will go over several years, with user studies, where you can follow your case online, and differentiated procedure. I think it is very good, and I look forward to it being implemented. Trust in our asylum institute depends on decisions being implemented and implemented as quickly as possible. In addition, more rapid processing and more rapid settlement will be beneficial for the overall integration work. In fact, I am generally concerned about the length of the procedure that we have had and that we still have with the foreign authorities, both in the cases where asylum seekers are allowed to stay and to reside, and in those cases where it takes too long to enforce decisions on rejection of asylum or residence permits, or expulsion and expulsion decisions. There is a work that needs to be given greater attention, regardless of whether it is a matter for the foreign administration or the police. As is known, the legislation in the foreign field has been established in such a way that it is UDI and UNE that assesses and determines individual matters. As politicians, therefore, we should not go into decisions in relation to individual cases in that area. But it is important that we deal with procedure and bureaucracy, and it must be as effective as possible without jeopardising the necessary thoroughness and quality. On the right, we want a strict but fair immigration policy, and it must be predictable. In principle, we believe that the legislation we have is good and sufficient only if it is used with the right discretion, or what we in good Norwegian can call healthy farm fat. I hear the Council of State say there has been a positive development in 2007. I think it's good that the Council of State sees that it can get better, because that's also my impression. I'm aware that we have borderland, and that it's not always easy. But I see clearly that our bureaucracy has great potential for improvement in relation to individual matters. I have to be so honest and say that in many inquiries I have put great questions about administration and practice in relation to our law. There is not a long time between getting an enquiry from people who have been rejected or who feel ill-treated in relation to bureaucracy. I'm going to take one concrete example, it knows the council from a previous question from my side. There was a Northman who had been to Colombia on vacation, met a girlfriend there, and had been there many times and developed the relationship. After a year and a half, he thought it was time that she was allowed to come to Norway. All the papers were provided and the financial guarantee was provided. All the papers were in order and everything was after the book, but they were refused. First, six months went by, and then there was an appeal and a new rejection. This involved me in this case, where my concern is that the answer I saw from the UDI was that they had interpreted everything in the worst sense in this case. We're in the frontier country, I'm aware of that, but I get worried when I see -- with my eyes -- that there's not enough emphasis on an individual treatment and a sense of discretion. Why I say that, is because the letter from UDI contained an explanation that says -- it says in English, I'm going to try to translate -- after UDI's experience with special groups or nationalities, where they have poor experience, they've developed the practice that in very rare cases they grant visas. It's only in very special cases. I believe that the burden of proof should actually be reversed. At least an individual treatment should be provided on a neutral and discretionary basis. On that basis, I have great doubts about a part of the UDI procedure. I'm also going to take a little bit of the visa regime, which I think can get better. I know that the Embassy in Morocco has good practice in following the visa seekers and checking that they come back to the country on return. I am a little sorry that the Council of State did not want to go into it as a general contribution to the new Foreign Affairs Act. That is what we are going to propose and hope that there can be practice in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e684	The Directorate for Foreign Affairs has some core values: they must show respect for users and their situation. They must show respect for their colleagues and contribute to a good working environment. Staff shall ensure the quality and efficiency of all they do. They shall be factual and objective, loyal to the law, instructions and objectives of their activities. They shall see the whole and the interaction between tasks and take joint responsibility for achieving good results. They shall communicate openly and clearly. There are high targets and core values to be agreed upon. Like Trine Skei Grande, I get a lot of enquiries from people who have been in contact with UDI or UNE. Unfortunately, I have to say that the problem that is the starting point for the interpellation today often seems to be real. I have a great deal of understanding that the foreign administration can be a challenging field to work on, also challenging in order to meet the high targets in terms of core values. It takes a lot of an employee to maintain professionalism, when a manifest encounters a strong destiny. As an employee of the UDI, you will also meet closely with people who will try to exploit the system. I understand that it may be difficult to start with blank sheets for each new case. I don't know if that's possible at all, because you'll always carry with you experiences from past cases. There is no doubt that the foreign administration may be a demanding place to contact. A large number of employees are required to have a comprehensive overview of a demanding set of legislation, regulations and circulars. The person making the request depends on getting the correct information and answers to their questions. The field is complicated for those who work on it for the day to day, and then we can imagine how difficult it is for the man in the street. It'll be frustrating if you don't experience getting the help you need. There may be answers to questions that should really be good for the case handlers to answer, for example. questions about the variant of the application to be selected. I just heard from a young Norwegian and very resourceful woman with an American girlfriend. The two would like to live in the same country and spend more time together to get better acquainted. He had a job offer at a school in Oslo and had worked as a musician in the United States for many years. She contacted the UDI and the police in good time before the expected date of the girlfriend's arrival. She also met personally many months before the planned arrival because she felt that she was getting poor help via the phone. She would be sure to do everything quite right. Nevertheless, to make a long story short: She met a system of case handlers who gave totally contradictory information about what type of residence permit the girlfriend was going to apply, about where she was going to turn, and she met case handlers who just didn't know, but who just put her over and put her over. It can't be like that! At the same time, there is another side of the matter that it is important to bring with it. I think we, as big-time representatives, are getting calls from people who are using us as a last resort, with a call for help, when they feel that all other possibilities are tested. We are not contacted by all of them - the high percentage - who are satisfied with the answers they have received from the foreign administration. We hear nothing from the thousands who have nothing to complain about. But in sum: I agree with the interpellant on this matter. There is a need for a review of the UDI and an evaluation of the UNE with a view to examining whether the administration of foreigners has been serviced, in line with good administrative practice, and to examine whether there is a potential for efficiency improvement - not only because it is important to be sure that those in direct contact with this administration are treated in line with core values, but also because it is important for the general population to respect the institution of asylum. Then I have to be allowed to add: regardless of whether people are refused or not at their own application, they will be treated with respect. Core values apply to all those in contact.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e706	Let's do a little thought experiment. Let's say that the interpellation, with the examples, had not been about today's topic, but had been about the meeting with the new welfare management. Then the Storting would be deeply engaged as an agent - and I am absolutely sure that the Advance Party would be deeply engaged as an agent, for they are! If this debate had been about how the planetate, for example. in the municipality of Oslo, a person who is applying for permission to build a garage, I am absolutely sure that we would have had a dedicated municipal debate if the behaviour had been close to the behaviour of the representative Trine Skei Grande. For my part, and on behalf of the Left, I am actually pleased that the Council of States has been consistent in the two debates on parallel issues in which I have spoken, namely, the meeting of new welfare management, by being open and clear that the rules of the game are being followed in society. You have to meet people really. It was the same attitude that the Council of State had today, and I am pleased about that. At the same time, the Left fully acknowledges the dilemmas expressed by the Council of State when he spoke about the balance between control and being proper. In this debate we have not challenged the policy, we have challenged the way to act. I'm just allowed to say that the Progress Party has hurt to believe it. I am absolutely convinced that the representative, Amundsen, would be adamant to the pulpit as an agent if it were for new welfare management or foreclosure and coercion in a municipality. As a liberal, I am simply told that it is a selective liberalism that is practised. In the Progress Party it is a selective ombudsman role. The councils don't do that, and I'm glad to be able to say that. I think what the representative Skei Grande has taken up is in the Council of State's response, that we have to be able to meet people in a proper way. There's a cross of thought here. On the one hand, for many years in Norway, we have been on guard that no one should abuse the institution of asylum, and then we have been open - at least an overwhelming majority in the main hall - to have an honest door to Norway, i.e. a labour immigration. We've been for that. We've also been for when people have settled in this country in a proper way and have fulfilled the old oath, commitment, which is social democracy and left love, namely that you have to do your duty and demand your right, people have to be treated properly, no matter who they are. That is exactly what is at the heart of this matter. Let's take a case that was in the public light recently, about a lady who had won the competition to become a scholarship at NTNU, and who is now expelled by Schengen and Norway. So she was treated as tough as mulla crickets, except that we're not sending out crickets right now. I'm not going to criticize that, because that's the good reason. But I think, what if we had someone with a duty of guidance similar to that of the Municipality of Oslo? If you fill in a bad garage request, there's a bureaucrat calling and saying, "Hello, you've filled in a little bad application." Maybe you should have done it this way instead. Imagine if someone had told this person that family reunification can be tough in your case, but that there are actually places in specialist workplaces -- we have other allowances. Imagine if someone had said, "Drop the application." In your case, you could probably go home safely and send the application. Then we might have kept a very competent worker in Norway, and we had not expelled one from Schengen and Norway for life. So, there's something about this lack of guidance. I understand that this is difficult in a system like the UDI, which has so much pressure, where they are going to manage control in some areas, but then they are going to respect Norwegian citizens who link contacts in a legitimate way with visas, and then you get transition to work immigration in other areas, which is what we want. What I'm happy about is that the Council of States has been open about this and done it in a real way. I would like to say to the Council of State that he can count on the policy to be liberalised in the Left, we should say so. We're going to say that from about. We're going to flag it so clearly that it'll be clear. But when it comes to dealing with the obligation of guidance in a sensible way, we actually believe the same thing about this that we believe that a primary doctor should speak properly to a patient, that a social worker should speak properly to a client, and that one in the new welfare management should speak properly, without giving the normality that one should, of course, care for law, law and duty. We have that expectation in all other parts of society, and therefore it is quite important that we also have it in the administration of foreigners, in a world where there is as much openness as there is, and where we in Norway, at least with great openness and willingness, wanted to increase labour immigration. We had a debate with the Prime Minister in the spontaneous question hour, where the question was, how much labour would we actually have in this country if we were to spend even more oil money? It is now that we in Norway want to have these free hands, and then it becomes a crossroads when we get the episode from NTNU, where NTNU says that they do not really feel that they met service or help on the road, but that they did. There are certainly other aspects of this matter as well, but the pure principle of understanding these regimes requires good political direction. I am at least glad that I have now heard a councillor--since I have been in a similar position once--that meets this openly, not with the winch bridge pulled up. At least that promises good for the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e728	I am at least very happy that the opposition parties are concerned about this matter, sail if I think that the Progress Party is a little boisterous about what was the subject. I have to say that I am the representative of my constituents, and from the e-mails I received only this morning, you can see that there are many who are very happy to be heard about something that they feel like a hopelessness that you do not get through. It's not just about rejection, it's about how you're treated. I hope that at the end of his speech, the Council of State might say something more about the date when he thinks he is able to get an electronic procedure. One wrote in one of my inquiries: ‘I believe I heard on the radio that the government has stated that it wants more tourists to the country, much more. In a chronicle in the Evening Post on 1 June 2007, Foreign Minister Støre asks the question of Norway in addition to being perceived as a small and rich country is also perceived as a foreign country. I think, unfortunately, that the very many applicants for a tourist visa who have been subjected to the systematic suspicion that I have the impression that UDI and UNE are driving will unfortunately answer, ‘Yes, Norway is a bad country’.’ This is not just about the conclusion of the application, but it is about the treatment you receive along the way. For example, I see myself. it is very healthy of an agency to learn to apologize when you have rejected the application, and learn to apologize when you have made a mistake and it is fixed one year later. That might also be a healthy part. I think it's a healthy part of an interpersonal relationship that one actually also learns to apologize when it's done wrong. Many applicants perceive that they have the opportunity to make as many mistakes as they do without saying that they are sorry on the one hand, while on the other hand they are actually taken for not having attached documents that nobody asked for. I believe that this duty of information is a major challenge for the agency, which I believe can be solved in many ways by electronic processing, in order for things to go both faster and more correctly. We in the left are also concerned that things should be right. I think we're on the right track, but it's also important that we address the frustration that many people feel when they encounter such systems. And then I actually think that a lot of this could go a lot faster if you were more concerned with making arrangements that ensure return e.g.. on visas, which can be done at embassies and elsewhere, but to try with light and light to find all kinds of possible, imaginable faults, in order to be able to find an argument for a refusal. Or you just get to say that from some countries you can't come to Norway. It would really be an equal system, if you can't find another administration of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e748	Let me just first comment on a few things of what the representative Holmberg was in his post. I'll say 100 pst. agree that any applicant for a stay in Norway is entitled to an individual treatment. The whole foundation of the foreign administration shall be to see each applicant. It should be the strength, and there are also challenges associated with it. I fully agree with Holmberg that you cannot have general rules that a person from a country per. the definition shall not be given a visa, e.g. It must be an individual treatment. Then there are some countries we have reason to control extra carefully, because our experiences are very bad. But it has to be an individual treatment. I have tried to go to this debate with a very humble attitude, because I believe there is every reason to focus on the fact that the level of service can improve in the foreign administration. I don't want to polemize in relation to the debate, but the humble attitude might also have been an idea that some more had. It is now under this government we have got 150 new jobs in the UDI, it was in 2007 that the waiting time on the phone went down from 20 minutes - it was even longer before that - to 7 minutes, and that is now we are introducing electronic processing. During the previous government, documents were run between the UDI and the police in a van, daily. During the previous government we had no service office on Tøen. We've got that now. There is now a common service strategy between the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. Thus, a number of measures are now being implemented in the field by area. I am humble as to the fact that we have not reached the goal, but humility may clothe more than just us who are now responsible for it as per. today is the situation. So we've taken over after some people, and it was enough work to get started when we took over. Then I think what the representative Dørum has in mind is very important, that is, the obligation to provide information, the obligation to provide guidance. It is a very demanding matter. The case from Trondheim is about a person who is applying for family reunification, is granted on that basis, and since then, after the assessment by the foreigner, the authorisation she has received is misused. It's a crime that it has to react to, I mean. There can be no difference between King Solomon and Jørgen hatmaker. However, if there could have been better guidance on initial treatment, it is an important matter to discuss further.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e757	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e763	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e787	During the debate, Ms Leirstein presented 8 proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review and ensure the quality of its practice with a view to reducing the number of cases of abuse of power against tax payers to none, including: - submit proposals assessing whether the burden of proof in court proceedings is more widely placed in the Equation Offices, - amend the rules so that taxpayers are deducted from expenditure incurred in disputes with the Equation Office, - assess whether the rules on free legal aid are also applicable in disputes with the Equation Offices, - assess and assess measures to generally improve the position of taxpayers in disputes with the Equation Authorities, and the related treatment in the names, with a view to improving the position of taxpayers.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the procedures and behaviour of the public creditor with a view to creating better, more uniform and more humane procedures.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government - review the cases where the public has priority as a creditor or guarantor, assess the appropriateness and, in the light of this, present the necessary proposals for amendments, assess a change in the law which gives the lowest public priority in bankruptcy, assess whether or not the non-members should provide more information to other creditors about their interpretations, and be obliged to disclose their interpretations.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government -promoting proposals that the Debt Scheme Act confers on debtors the right, but not the obligation, to try to bring about an arrangement with creditors, -assess possible improvements in the centralisation of the debt management task, with a view to improving competence and more efficient procedures, both in time and cost, - review the task of public debt advisors with a view to providing an even better service to the debtor, -ensure that deadlines for dealing with the debt regime are respected in relation to the law and current requirements, as also pointed out in the Court of Auditors' report Document No. 5:3 [[2005-2006]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess: -the appropriateness of bringing together the various drawdown bodies in relation to debt to one drawdown body, - the establishment of one indicative common rate of subsistence, - the investigation of the functioning of the market for debt collection activities in Norway in relation to other countries, and the proposal for measures which may contribute to the reduction of collection fees, - a system of collection fees similar to that in Sweden, where creditors pay a share of the collection fee, - to amend the regulation for the determination of collection fees so that the fee does not increase by the amount of the outstanding amount, - to exempt collection fees for value added tax, - to liquidate the two-stage system of collection fees, - to reduce the multiplier for the interpretation further from 1,85 times the legal fee so that the fee falls below the amount of EUR 1 000,-change in the rules so that no guarantee of tax can be taken into the depository, - to promote proposals that do not entail the deduction of pension credits when tax is not paid within threeyears , if the tax is subsequentlypaid." Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the debt advisory arrangements and market and to assess whether better organisation of more efficient market mechanisms is necessary and whether this can be done better by non-municipal private service providers.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess a change in law, which gives greater opportunity to set the period of the debt arrangement to zero years, in cases where the debtor has been engaged in industry and the majority of the debt is commercial debt.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider removing the option of salary deductions for ‘Other claims’ in the Coverage Act § 2-8.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e919	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-02-28.ana.ud2591e930	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
