ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e35	Before we start with case number. 1, the President will repeat what was said at this morning's meeting, that the processing of today's maps will be extended into the so-called pause, i.e. That we're running in one until we're done with today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e49	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e62	I would first like to comment on the development and progress of this case, because the State Council Knut Storberget in the media has created the impression that it is the Stortinget that has dealt with the matter slowly and late, and that that is why it is strongly delayed in relation to the planned progress. The government announced to the Storting that the proposition would be presented in the autumn of 2007. However, it was not submitted until 15 May 2008 in a provisional version. This extensive and important matter was therefore brought before Stortinget four weeks before the summer holiday. It is long after what is considered to be the deadline for the submission of cases which may be dealt with before the summer holiday. That State Council Storberget shows so little respect for the work of Stortinget that he intended such a case to be carried out in an irresponsible short time, and that it should in some way be the responsibility of Stortinget that the government of Storberg did not have the ability to file the case before 15 May 2008, is virtually unheard of. I assume that the behaviour of the state councils in the public space is normal far more despicable than that of the Minister of Justice in this matter. So over to the important question. The fund of the information society is an independent legal entity which owns properties and financial assets. The fund is one of the largest landowners in the country, and the properties consist mainly of precincts and properties owned by the Church, originating all the way back to the Middle Ages and before the Reformation. The properties are purchased, given in gift or received as inheritance. The total value of the fund is approximately DKK 6.6 billion – just before the financial crisis. The fund of the information society is governed by the Constitution § 106, which protects the fund from use for purposes other than those specifically mentioned. The Fund is also governed by the Information Society Fund Act. Act on the Information Society's Fund, § 5, first paragraph, reads: «The property and capital of the fund cannot be given up or used up.» The Government’s proposal is, in substance, an exception to the prohibition on giving up or confiscating the properties and values of the Information Society’s fund to the benefit of individuals who attach the property of the Fund by applying the Santa Claus directive to the Information Society’s fund. For all other fasteners, which are not covered by the emptying instructions, the rules of the law on the fastening of the land are applicable. But the government is proposing particularly favourable redemption rules and fastening conditions for fasteners like fasteners by OVF. The OVF's own calculations show that the proposal would involve a loss of approx. NOK 1 to 1.25 billion if all landowners redeem their properties in accordance with the provisions proposed by the Government. The main question has become whether such a rule would conflict with the Constitution § 106, which reads: «As much as the income of the spiritual benefied of God is to be used only for the Best of the Spirituality and the Advancement of the Enlightenment. The properties of the Mildest Foundations were to be used only for their sakes." The Committee is strongly divided on the occasion of the matter and I must acknowledge that it is challenging to understand the conclusion and the basis for the conclusions of the Government Parties. Therefore, in the following, I will mainly present the vision of the Advance Party and, on the one hand, of a total minority and leave it up to the government parties to prepare for it. However, I would like to commend the whole Committee for good cooperation on practical aspects relating to the matter and the willingness to simplify where possible. The minority consists mainly of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Party. The latter lot deviates slightly from the grounds for rejection and has not concluded as clearly in the constitutional question as the other three. The amendment of the law, if adopted, would result in a transfer of Community values currently managed by the OVF to a very limited group of individuals who have the common ownership of residential property of the OVF. Such a transfer of wealth is very unsocial and difficult to justify. However, even more important is the relationship with the constraints imposed by the Constitution on the use of the Fund. I would first like to link some comments to the Basic Law and some questions of interpretation that are directly relevant to this matter. The Constitution is old, and it has been amended over a number of years, both by ordinary constitutional changes under the Constitution § 112 and also by constitutional customary law and interpretation. One has seen an increasing tendency for some legal environments to choose to interpret the provisions of the Constitution in accordance with the understanding that a majority of the Storting should use at all times. The last is a remarkable and very unfortunate tradition that is hardly a formal basis for sticking to. Changes to the Constitution require a two-thirds majority in the Stortinget. Using an interpretation of the Basic Law on the basis of a view shared by a simple majority of the Stortinget would be contrary to the spirit of the Basic Law and would largely override the meaning of the Basic Law § 112 on important issues. In this case, there is therefore particular reason to point out that one cannot interpret the Constitution in the light of what a scarce and simple majority had to think about the content of the Basic Law, in particular because the current Basic Law provision, § 106, is intended to limit the exercise of the powers of the Stortinge in this area. It will therefore also be seen as a barrier to the general exercise of the powers of the Storting as legislator under the Basic Law § 75a. Such a provision cannot be circumvented by the interpretation tradition which has developed in some constitutional issues and on the basis of which the Law Department has largely based its views and the Storting hearing. The majority of the Committee shall rely on the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs department, such as: has written in his view that one should ‘be careful to intervene in the Grand Duchy’s legislative authority under the Basic Law § 75 a’. [[...]] However, there is no justification for such a conclusion, and Professor Eivind Smith believes that such a starting point is of a more ideological nature than a legal nature. It's a vision I share. It is worth noting, however, that the Law Department reveals some uncertainty in its main conclusion that the bill is within the Basic Law § 106. It clearly states that the issue needs to be assessed separately by the Storting in the context of the examination of the legislative proposal, which is not a very common formulation by the Legal Service. Lawyer Frode A. Indord at the law firm Hjort has written several observations about the constitutionality of the Government's proposal on behalf of the Information Society Fund. His conclusion is clear: the bill is clearly contrary to the Constitution § 106. Professor Eivind Smith was also quite unambiguous in his conclusion at the committee’s hearing. The bill is clearly contrary to the Constitution § 106. He also added that he did not consider it reasonable to claim that a gift of NOK 1 billion to individuals is within the framework of the Basic Law in Section 106. In practice, only the Department of Law of the Ministry of Justice believes that the bill is within the scope of the Basic Law § 106. I think it is right to point out that the role traditionally played by the Legal Department as an important and almost objective contributor in the legal debate has depended on the fact that there has been no basis for suspecting the department to take political into account. That time seems to be over. The Ministry of Justice's legislative department should probably be looked at more in the future as it actually is, namely the Ministry of Justice and the Government's tools for interpreting provisions relating to the government's political work — nothing more. The basic law of § 106 sets a relatively clear and final framework for the use of the fund’s resources. This is the background to the first paragraph of Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act. It is not disputed that the Constitutional Act § 106 also imposes a requirement for the proper management of the fund's funds. This view is also shared by the Department of Justice. However, the Ministry of Justice’s legislative department tries, in its assessment of the constitutional issue, on which the majority has given a decisive emphasis, to construct a problem of the absence of any requirement for profit maximisation in the sale of the property of the fund. That relationship is not controversial. The question is what sound management means. The discount has expressed this on a number of occasions by requiring that the general rule for the disposal of the property of the fund is that market prices are to be paid, but that there may be some exceptions to such a general rule, e.g.: where the market cannot function properly because the OVF is too dominant. It should be noted that the references made by the Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs department in the considerations at this point are largely incomplete and are therefore supplemented in the setting by the minority. The majority believe that Section 106 of the Basic Law is fulfilled as long as one in the management of the fund’s funds takes reasonable consideration for the purposes outlined. The majority, however, say nothing about what they think with reasonable care. A bottling of the values of the fund between NOK 1 and SEK 1.25 billion to relationships that have nothing to do with the purposes outlined in the provision is obviously in order, in the view of the majority. Neither the majority nor the Ministry of Justice has ventured into an assessment of the possible occurrence of such a limit. However, the majority refers to the Department of Justice, even when it writes: «The systematic re-disposal of significant parts of the fund's assets irrespective of the purpose and without any consideration being given would be examples of dispositions contrary to the constitutional provision.» Can it really be said that a gift item of DKK 1 – 1.25 billion to random individuals is not a systematic redeployment of significant parts of the fund’s funds? The fundamental law question is not primarily about the size of the loss, but the size of the loss helps to exclude one from a situation of doubt. The breach of the Constitution is reasonably evident. The government's proposals alone are motivated by a point in the Soria Moria Declaration. Thus, there is nothing revolutionary about the Government's proposals. What makes the matter so special is that the government parties have promised more than there is a legal basis for keeping without a change in the Constitution. Of course, this could be solved by proposing to amend the Constitution § 106, which would then be taken into account for ordinary constitutional treatment in the next period. However, it turns out that support for the proposal is very weak, and there may seem to be no full agreement between the government parties either. That's why you choose to use the majority power to get this done. This is a clearly undemocratic move, and I am afraid that it can put another nail in the coffin of political credibility. If only there was talk of whether there was a good political new regime being proposed, the consequence would be much less dramatic. The challenge here is to put to the test the very limitations of the Basic Law on the competence of the Storting. This particular political starting point was confirmed by former State Council representative Øystein Djupedal during the process of Innst. S. No 254 for 2007-2008 to request the opinion of the Supreme Court on the constitutionality of the draft law under the Constitution § 3. Djupedal was clear that this was not a problem at all, because if the Constitution imposed restrictions on the authority of Storting and Odelsting in this context, it would only be possible to solve it through the legal system in retrospect. I think it's an unusually strange way of dealing with the Constitution. The parties to the Government abuse majority power to infringe the Constitution and then to have the courts tidy up. In their reward chambers, the representatives of the government parties hope that the case will not be tried in court. Even I have to say that it is rare that situations arise in which one of this pulpit is so tempted to encourage interested organisations and others with potential legal capacity to attack a decision taken in this Chamber with legal instruments. Then probably someone would say that the Progress Party is too bastant in its conclusions that the bill is unconstitutional. Maybe they can have something right in it, because there are, of course, shades in this picture as well. However, it has proved to be very difficult to get anyone other than the ministry itself to believe that the government's bill is within the framework of the Basic Law. Then there might be reason to be bastant. And there's reason to be despaired--doubt over a majority that skips the big questions to solve the little ones. From a political point of view, the political basis for the legislative proposal is also strange, for this government has made a great point that it will redistribute a greater share of private assets and revenues to Community values. The legislative proposal takes Community values managed by the OVF and transfers them to a random group of selected individuals, who can otherwise make very good money at such a red disposition. The gift item for several properties is up to 90 pst. That means that one can trigger an immediate tax-free gain on sales of up to 900 pst. of the redemption sum. There is no bad return on invested capital. That politicians who normally talk about better and fairer distribution make themselves do something like that, is quite difficult to understand. The decision that seems to be taken at Odelstinget today will haunt this house for a long time to come. Rarely or never have the alarm bells called as loud and clear as they do in this case. The majority seem to care little about it, because they have received advice from a department in the Ministry of Justice that is obviously better suited to know most about the Constitution than all the rest of the world's legal competences. Then we don't talk about arrogance anymore. Then we have to come up with a new term, which goes beyond arrogance. On this basis, I address the minority proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e144	The representative Anders Anundsen has drawn up the proposal he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e149	The claim made by the rapporteur on the Legal Service as a political tool will be on his own account, but that is an eye-catching position. Otherwise, it was not so much surprising that came from the case rapporteur. There is a big question of legal interpretation in this case, and it feels good to the representative Anundsen. There are different legal views on this, and it is clear in the setting. But the conclusion of the Progress Party in this case, which Anundsen himself had in mind, is clear: they assume that the bill is unconstitutional. I wonder about this slippery safety of the Progress Party. Then I have a question for the representative Anundsen: the Progress Party has previously emphasised the concern of individuals as well. In this case, this is totally absent. Is there only consideration of the income of the Information Society's Fund from the parties that apply to the party to people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e158	At the end of the day: I don't think the representative followed me very well during my post. It is clear that one must comply with the provisions of the Basic Law when one is in this Chamber. One cannot close his eyes to what the Constitution says, on the grounds that the interests of individuals should be taken care of. The basic principle of the Constitution is that the interests of individuals and other interests should be taken into account. For example, the Basic Law clearly limits § 106 on what we can do in this room and the Government with the funds that are in the Information Society's fund. As politicians, I believe that we are obliged to comply with the Constitution, and that we are obliged to put ourselves well into what the Constitution is. It may be perceived as non-slip, but it is only the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice, which is a political department, which supports this government's conclusion. Professor Eivind Smith, lawyer Inland and the others who have let themselves be heard in this matter, disagree with the Government, and then perhaps you should be somewhat humble.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e165	After hearing the statement from the case-speaker, I wonder if the case-speaker had the complete hearing, because it was made crystal clear from the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice that their statements were not presented to the political leadership until they were sent, in these kinds of legal assessments. It's a central part of their role, and there shouldn't be any doubt about it. The law department writes in the letter from this year: ‘The reason why a loss arises today as a result of the land-fixing instruction is that the fund’s contracts include comprehensive provisions on land value regulation and not regulation by consumer price index or similar, contained in a large proportion of other current fixed contracts.’ One does not place a decisive emphasis on this from the Law Department's side, but believes that this is also a factor in the assessment. Is this not true that from the point of view of the Progress Party, the value of the anchors is not very high in the overall assessment the Size should be making?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e175	No, it's totally wrong. The party has been involved in the processing of a separate law on Santa Claus. There has also been an SV involved in the processing of this room. It is the legislation that must underpin all fastening agreements. What the Government wants to do is to introduce a special rule with particularly favourable provisions, i.e. far better provisions for a small group of fasteners than for all other fasteners. Firstly, it is entirely unheard of to do such a kind of different treatment, and when, in addition, it violates the Constitution, you should be careful about what you do. I can confirm that I got the entire hearing. I have also not said that the law department has been instructed to conclude in the way they do. But I assume that the Law Department can read, and this conclusion shows that they have at least read the Soria Moria statement!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e184	Interestingly, the case spokesperson himself drew attention to the treatment of the law on Santa Claus in the previous period, because there was a slightly special position in the Progress Party. That is the basis for me to ask if the case spokesperson at all considers that the care of the parties in this matter is something to be added to the weight. The base law does not set any restrictions on that assessment. The majority believe that there is a need to focus on the overall assessment of defence management. Then I ask, is it not so easy that the Progress Party in this matter continues its policy with respect to Santas, and that is why you do not want to take them into consideration?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e189	The answer to that question is still no. The Socialist Left Party and the Progressive Party interpret the Constitution differently. The Progress Party has come to the conclusion that this bill is contrary to the Constitution. One may not, with respect, say that one must consider that the conditions of the parties are nevertheless so essential that one should disregard the Basic Law. It'll be a strange starting point for the Advance Party. But if that's what underlies SV's conclusions, I suddenly understand more of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e195	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e198	Although there is some disagreement in this matter, it is in its place first to thank the case rapporteur for the job he has done. In this case, the Government proposes to amend Section 5 of the Information Society Fund Act, by adding a new second paragraph on the possibility of instruction. The working party and the majority support this amendment. Matters related to emptying is a repetition in this room. With this bill change, the government follows up what it has previously announced it will do, to ensure that many landowners get better conditions than under today's law on the land. Many Santas have looked forward to the decision we can make today, and the matter has been important for the Workers' Party. So this case has evolved to be a question of whether the amendment of the law and the instructions are contrary to the Constitution § 106. It is a well-known case that there are different opinions about this in the fair environment, as it is also in other cases dealing with the interpretation of laws. Both in advance of and during the Committee's work on this proposal, various aspects have been well-examined and evaluated by the Committee. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party share the view expressed by the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department in two letters that follow the suspension, namely that the amendment of the law and the instructions do not conflict with the requirements set by the Constitution § 106. Paragraph 106 says something about the use of the Information Service's fund. As the wording is, the paragraph does not impose any absolute constraints on the management of the fund. However, it appears that there is agreement in the various legal opinions on the matter that a requirement of soundness has to be interpreted in the paragraph. But where the limit goes, there's disagreement about. It is the view of the majority that wider societal considerations can also be taken into account in the management of the fund. This has also been done in dealing with these issues in the past. We believe that the limit on what § 106 of the Constitution permits is not broken in this case. The majority share the view of the Legal Department and believe that the amendment and instruction on this background is not contrary to the purpose of Section 106. It is clear that the revenue generated by the Information Society's fund, after amendment and instruction, will be lower than under the law of today's Santa Claus. However, I do not share the opposition's claim about gifts to individuals who have different links with the fund, for example. know they're Santas. In the case of the Workers' Party and the Government, consideration is given to the landowners, who have built up the land and placed their housing on it, also of importance. We believe that the proposed amendment to the law and the instructions help to ensure that both the future revenue of the Information Society's fund and the consideration of the plots are taken into account. There is nothing else new that this room makes changes to the law that are relevant to the fixation fee or redemption sum. I would also point out that the Department of Proposition stresses that it is a prerequisite that the economy of the Norwegian Church should not be weakened as a result of the instructions. The multiples take this into account. Another question that the opposition has made a central question in the setting is the ownership of the fund. I would like to point out here that the Law Department has concluded that the Information Society's fund is safe and secure from the state. The majority support this view. We had the discussion about this in an interpellation debate last November. The question has also been addressed in the State and Norwegian Church Storingsmeldung, where it is shown that: «the future ownership of the Information Society Fund must be assessed in the event of the termination of the State Church Scheme and that this issue will then be resolved politically». The ownership should therefore not be a central issue for the matter we are dealing with today. I have explained the views of the Labour Party and the Government, and several speakers will complement this view. I would also like to refer to our remarks in the setting and the considerations we are making there. It is our opinion that the amendment of the law we have to deal with today is correct – both on the grounds of the Santa Claus parties and of the State as the owner of the properties through the Information Society's fund, and we believe that the decision we are making today is not contrary to the Basic Law § 106.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e235	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e238	I understand that the government parties have dealt with this matter thoroughly and have gone deep into the constitutional issue. Both in written feedback to the committee and in the oral hearing, Professor Dr. Juris Eivind Smith and lawyer Inndord from the lawyer firm Hjort were unusually clear, much clearer than the law department was in its conclusion, and I am somewhat surprised that the majority comment very little on the recordings that have come from the lawyers who disagreed so strongly with the basic law of this proposal. But the question is essentially not about that, it is primarily about whether the representative Kjernli, the Workers' Party and the other government parties have been thoroughly involved in the consequences if the decision taken in this Chamber today is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e245	As I said in my post, the entire committee, including the government parties, has taken seriously the various recordings that have been made. We have reviewed them, and then we have reached a conclusion, as the representative Anundsen has also done. It is not surprising that lawyer Inndord comes to his conclusion, all the time he is engaged by the Information Society's fund to give a legal consideration. It would have been alarming if he had come to a different conclusion from what he did. But as I said, the different legal opinions in the case are. We believe that what we're doing is not contrary to the Constitution. What will happen next, we cannot decide here and now. We live in a state of law. If this case gets a follow-up, that's something we can't take into account when we make political decisions that we think are right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e252	It is not only lawyer Frode Innjord who is very clear, but also professor Dr. Juris Eivind Smith, who cannot be said to have been paid by anyone other than the Norwegian state to mean what he is doing. The first sentence of Section 106 of the Constitution is as follows: «As much as the income of the spiritual benefied of God shall be used only for the Best of the Spirituality and the Advancement of the Enlightenment.» In the newspaper Our Country we could read yesterday that with the new instructions it is such that an area that has a market value of approximately. One million. kr, now available for not less than SEK 70000. My question to the representative Gorm Kjernli is quite simple: Does the Workers' Party and the other government parties believe that the gift element, which thus involves a gift of almost 1 million. kr to the landowner, is it to use the money of the Information Service Fund for the purposes set out in the Basic Law § 106, namely ‘Best of the Spirituality and the Promotion of Information’?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e264	The basic law § 106 says something about the use of the Information Society's fund, to which the representative Eriksen Soreide also referred. As I also explained in my article, it does not say anything about how to manage the fund. Then you can refer to press releases and use them for income because here you have a very good case, as the representative Eriksen Soreide now tried to do, and I'm not going to go in and comment on individual cases in relation to this – you can always find an example that you take on income for your case. We believe that what we're doing is right, and that this is not contrary to the Constitution § 106. And as I said, the gift element is not something I agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e269	It is quite surprising to claim that legal investigations are purely on-demand and have almost been purchased and paid by the contracting entity. I think that's a pretty dry claim. But now let's put the formal light aside for a moment and just note that, as far as the ownership of the Information Society Fund is concerned, we do not come from the seventh and last of all it is a political decision. And the majority have decided that this is the state fund, and with this we've also decided that we're doing what we want with the fund. We'll see if it stays in retrospect. However, the representative said that the losses suffered by the majority of the Fund today should be covered financially. My question is, does that mean that the majority will make sure that the fund covers what you lose through today's decision, crowns for crowns?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e278	It's a question we have to get back to when you see what the change in law we're now doing is actually going to mean. So to the ownership of the fund: The representative of the Seven represents the Christian People's Party, which was set up with government power in the last growing-up period. Also at the time, the Government of Bondevik issued a big message that was based on a statement from the Department of Law that the Information Society's fund was to be considered to be under the state's ownership. So with the ownership of the Information Society's fund, it's also clear in the past, in a different political color.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e285	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e288	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough work on the matter. I also agree with the criticism that has been raised against both the Council of State Knut Storberget and the Government as a whole because the matter came to Stortinget late, which initially gave the Committee little room for action for sensible and sound treatment. The Storting has also previously dealt with matters relating to the Information Society's fund, both through an interpellation I myself traveled to the Minister of Culture and the Church last autumn, and through a position from the Control and Constitutional Committee, which referred to the issue of the Storting based on the Basic Law § 83, could ask the Supreme Court to consider whether the new Santa Claus directive and the change in the Law on the Fund of the Information Society, which we are dealing with here today, are in accordance with the Basic Law § 106, first sentence. The new Santa Claus directive was established by the Royal Resolution of 14 September 2007, and it is as a result of this instruction that the Law on Information Society Fund § 5 is amended. The essence of today's debate is whether this change can be said to be within or outside the framework set by the First sentence of Section 106 of the Constitution for the use of the Fund's resources. There are, of course, consequences for whether the Stortinget can make a decision through ordinary legal proceedings under the Constitution § 75, or walk the road to constitutional amendments under § 112. I'll get back to that a little bit. Let me first say a little bit about the content of constitutional protection. Paragraph 106, first sentence, reads as follows: «As much as the income of the spiritual benefied of God shall be used only for the Best of the Spirituality and the Advancement of the Enlightenment.» One consequence of this provision is that Section 5 of the Information Service Fund, first paragraph today, reads: «The property and capital of the fund cannot be given up or used up.» So this provision is a guideline that follows from the Basic Law § 106. I would also like to state that, in consultation with the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on 4 September of this year, the Department of Justice confirmed that these provisions apply completely independently of the ownership of the Fund. So no matter how you look at the legal and political unresolved issue of ownership, the constraint in Section 106 applies in full. However, precisely because ownership is unclear, extra care is of course also required for the management of the fund's assets. I would also like to point out that the provisions of the Basic Law § 106 do not require the maximisation of profits. In other words, on the basis of the opposition's resistance to the amendment of the law, there is no disagreement as to whether the fund should collect the maximum of what it can in the case of redemptions and fixed-rate contracts. On the basis of the resistance, there is a strong disagreement as to whether it is reasonable for the OVF to be placed substantially worse than other non-seat fasteners complying with the general rules of the Law on Landing. That way, we get into a situation where some lucky, random Santas get big wins. In the newspaper Our Land, we were able to read yesterday about an area that, according to the general rules of the law on the land, would have a redemption sum of approx. NOK 630,000. With the new rules in the fastening instructions, the same plot can be redeemed for approx. NOK 39 000. That'll give you a discount of almost 600,000 kroner. It is easy to imagine that a party can then redeem the land for NOK 39,000 and then sell it at market price and be left with a nice profit. The representative, Gorm Kjernli, said in his post that it is almost such that the Santas deserve a low sum because they have worked up the plot themselves. But it's true for every Santa Claus that you rework the plot. It is not unique for those who attach themselves to the plots of the Information Society Fund. This applies to everyone. But everyone else has to deal with the guidelines that follow from the Law on Landfilling. Through the figures presented to the Committee during the hearing, we see that a common situation will be that we experience discounts of the order of 80-95 pst. on the redemption amounts. That will now be the reality. The calculations underlying the proposal have been explained by the rapporteur. So it's about huge losses – losses in the order between 1 and 1.25 billion kroner of the fund's wealth, that is, approximately. 20 pst, and 20-25 million. kr in losses annually as a result of lower Party Fees. A further political point, of course, is that it's pretty funny that a red-green government turns into figures to transfer large sums from the community to random, lucky individuals. As part of the plotters it expressed in time after the proposition was made: this is like winning in the lotto. Of course, the provision in Constitutional Law paragraph 106 does not preclude social considerations from being taken into account in the management of OVF’s properties. But these considerations are secondary, and they can only apply as far as the Constitution § 106 sets limits. The question in this case is therefore whether the State can impose on the Fund a specific obligation to maintain these general social interests at the expense of the framework and purposes referred to in Section 106 of the Constitution. The new Santa Claus directive and the amendment to the law currently under consideration imposes on OVF a general obligation to sell fast rooms at a price far lower than that resulting from the rules of the Law on Landfills and not to levy the fastage charge that the fund is entitled to under the agreements legally concluded. In my view, this is a systematic bottling of the fund's values in order to fulfil completely different purposes than those mentioned in Basic Law § 106. It is not a question of individual agreements for a lower fixation fee or a lower redemption sum in individual cases, which is entirely in order and which lie entirely within that fund can already be done today, but it is a question of imposing on the fund that it is always significantly worse than any other non-recovery. So the Santa Claus directive does not impose on the OVF an obligation to take social considerations, but an obligation to dispose of property and values. Professor Dr. Juris Eivind Smith said during the hearing that it is strange if the Storting should be able to determine, through informal opinions, the scope of the provisions of the Constitution without going into the path of formal constitutional change. It has also been presented, both through the proposition and in other contexts, a problem from the government parties that is about whether it is the instruction or the law that is contrary to the Constitution. It is mildly a special issue. Because even though the Government of the Proposition writes that the bill itself will not conflict with the Constitution § 106, but that in that case it is the instruction that is, it is not relevant for the treatment of the Storting. As lawyer Frode Innjord said at the committee hearing: ‘Everyone understands that such a logic is wrong in its place, completely depriving the Stortinget of the responsibility of the national Parliament to ensure that there are no laws open to acts of unlawful interference by the administration.’ I have asked the question before, and I allow myself to ask the question again: If it was not intended to be disposed of in violation of Section 5 of the OVF Act, first paragraph, and thus the First sentence of Section 106 of the Constitution, what is the point of the new second paragraph of Section 5 of the OVF Act that the Stortinget is asking to adopt today? This is very simple, from the government's side. A completely different majority is required to walk the path of constitutional change, and a completely different treatment period is required. The government has neither the time nor the majority needed to adopt it the ordinary way, as it should have been. That's why the government chooses a normal law change, because they know that's the majority they have now. It has been said by several — including the Council of State, which in a letter to the Council of Churches dated 2 October 2007 says that with regard to the consequences for the Norwegian Church, he will stress that the Government considers that ‘the Church’s economy should not be weakened as a result of the instructions’. There's no sign, either in the budget or in other ways, that the government is doing something to compensate for the Church's loss of money. OVF is between 200 and 250 million. kr each year for church purposes, such as child and youth work and other good purposes. That money is now going to disappear, and there are no things that have been said about how to compensate them. In the opinion of the Right, there is no doubt that what the Storting is about to adopt today is contrary to the Constitution § 106. We're not alone in saying that. It believes that there is an overall opposition, and it also believes that there are strong and clear voices in the legal environment. Even the head of the Department of Justice's law department, Inge Lorange Backer, said during the hearing that it is a sound legal judgement to believe the opposite of what the law department believes. That's a strong statement. Given that the Right believes that this is contrary to the Constitution § 106, there is no doubt for us that we must ask Odelstingen to reject the law. I hope there's going to be a decision, by more people joining.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e345	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e348	I allow myself to go a little outside what the representative Eriksen Soreide calls the core of the matter, because I'm wondering that one might feel so different when one is in position, and when one is in opposition, in terms of ownership of OVF. But that's exactly what I'm leaving behind right now. My focus on the question is not on fasteners, but parties. I wonder that Right does not want to make it easier to be mastered in your own house, so to speak. For the changes we are making today, it will mean that more people will have easier access to the plot they have their own house standing on. Can the Right’s Representative say what they think about this type of shared ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e355	I'd like to tell you what we think about the bill that the government is presenting. In the opinion of the Right, it is quite incomprehensible why a few parties, approx. 7 000 in the number, have completely different conditions and get completely different wins than any other party. All others who fasten empty must comply with the law of the land fastening and with the rules that follow. There is a reasonable balance and balance between anchorages and awnings, and there are provisions that have also been included in the working party. But I cannot, with my best will, understand that some parties should be placed in a completely different and far more fortunate situation than any other party, not least because this is at the expense of the purposes that the Information Society's fund is intended to pursue. And that is in violation of the First sentence of Section 106 of the Basic Law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e362	I think that right-wing spokesperson was injured to say a mistake. She said that OVF's right of ownership has not been clarified. You don't think that is right. The property relationship is clear. The ownership relationship was clarified in the previous ageing period during – the mayor – the Bondevik II government, when the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide put in the Stortinget and defended his policy. This happened in connection with St.meld. No 41 for 2004–2005, About the economy of the Norwegian Church, where it was founded the Law Department, where it was issued – according to Innst. O. No 79th title: ‘In the light of this discussion, the conclusion of the Law Department is that the Church is not a separate legal object but a part of the State. The fact that the Information Society’s fund is owned by the Church as such must therefore be excluded. [[...]] Following a review of the relevant legal sources and the historical background of the Information Society Fund, the Legal Service has come to the conclusion that it must be considered as certain that the State is the owner of the Fund.» With the legal competence of the representative, it is a little strange that one does not create such a significant pre-work as this big message and the Stortinge's handling of the case. Why has Right changed relative to the previous period?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e372	The right has not changed its mind, and it is such that the Storting has not finally taken a decision on this question. There is also one reason why the issue of ownership of the OVF was not part of the state church negotiations. That's precisely because there's still a legal and political issue. But I record that the representative Åsa Elvik from the government party SV wants to derail the debate and turn the focus away from what is the core here. Because regardless of whether the State or the Church owns the fund, the same constraints and the exact same guidelines apply in relation to the Constitution § 106. That is what is at the heart of the question here: Is the amendment of the law to be adopted by the Storting today, contrary to or in line with the Constitution § 106? We clearly believe that it is contrary to the Basic Law § 106, and we therefore believe that the Storting cannot adopt such a change in law by an ordinary majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e379	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e382	It is limited to one row of five minutes. I would therefore like to refer to our comments in the setting, where we have done a great deal about how the plural evaluates the constitutional question, which becomes the central issue here. I'd like to draw some of the points that we care about. We are some with the Department and the Law Department in that one of the interpretations of the Constitution 106 has to emphasize that the purposes listed in the paragraph are taken care of in completely different ways today than in 1814. For example, the state favours the financing of governmental purposes and the Information Society in a significantly different way than through the management of the values in the OVF. Our next point is that the Basic Law § 106 only requires how to use the sum of purchases and income from ‘the Spirituality of beneted Goods’, and not for the management of the fund in addition to this. Thus, the Santa Claus directive does not require fixed or redemption fees to be used for purposes other than those covered by the Basic Law. The question then becomes to what extent the Basic Law § 106 provides for the management of the OVF, and to what extent there is an opportunity to consider purposes other than those explicitly mentioned in the paragraph. The majority agrees with the Law Department and with the Ministry that in the matter of the management of the Fund: ‘is able to take a wide range of consideration, including those outside the scope of the Constitution, § 106, first sentence. This can be done even if it does not maximise the capital and return of the fund. The country must have a relatively far-reaching understanding of balancing its concerns for the purposes and other considerations taken into account». This brings us to the question of the defence management of the fund. The majority share the view of the Department and the Department of Law that the Constitution § 106 does not impose any absolute constraints on the consideration of how to manage the funds in the OVF. We assume that the requirement for the defence management of the fund is met as long as there is reasonable consideration for the listed purposes of Section 106 and other purposes. The management of the fasteners is such a purpose. In the setting, we suggest that when it comes to the management of fasteners, it has been decided in various cases that have been in this room for treatment, that the interests of the parties should be preserved to a reasonable degree. In other words, this is not a new situation. All of these elements together give the conclusion that the majority has drawn that neither the law nor the instructions are contrary to the Constitution. The minority has come to a different conclusion, but I will again point out that one of the views of the Law Department shall: «be careful to intervene, on a vague basis, in the interpretation of such a constitutional provision, in the Grand Duchy's legislative authority under the Basic Law, § 75a». I would like to add that the head of the law department during the hearing said that it could not be particularly appropriate to change the basic law whenever a case has a case for treatment. We need to base a broad societal perspective on this. The size has freedom of action in this assessment. We're going to evaluate the loss or the limitation of future returns for OVF. We have to. But the legal sources show that there is a practice of emphasising the concerns of the parties in the management of OVF, and that does the majority. On the phone, there was some announcement – and the representative Dørum uses to say that it gives cause for reflection – that the Santa Claus was an undisclosed interest that had nothing to do with the cause. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what you're talking about. It is people who have a long history of partying, and it is people who have usually made larger investments in the plot. I note that the civil parties choose not to pay particular attention to the concerns of the parties. It is not surprising to me, with a background in the treatment of the Santa Claus Act in the previous period. With the background of Soria Moria and the government party's history, it should not surprise anyone that we should place such great emphasis on the concern of the parties that we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e416	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e419	I noticed that Santas are not anyone, but nevertheless there are a few who need to be treated better than other Santas. If the representative Elvik wanted to change the law on Santa Claus, it could be suggested, instead of favoring a few parties that have a particular ownership of the land they have a relationship to. I also heard that the representative Elvik was a little unclear about the management of the capital. She claims that § 106 only deals with income and returns. The Legal Department, with the support of all other legal environments, has also stated that there is a basis for sound management of the capital fund. So it might be interesting to hear what the representative Elvik knows that we don't know. When it comes to sound management, it is said that as long as reasonable consideration is given to the proposed objectives, it is all right. Within which of the evocative purposes are private plotters?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e426	The author of the case cannot have received my reasoning. The wording of Section 106 sets out how to use the sum of purchases and income from the ‘spirit of the benefied Goods’ rather than the management of the fund. The Santa Claus directive does not state that these funds should be used in contravention of what has been said is the explicit purpose of this paragraph. It may be impossible to read from the instructions. When it comes to defence management, we have a thorough discussion of this in the setting. What I said in my post was that we are some with the Law Department and the Department in that there is an opportunity to take a wide range of consideration, including those outside the explicit wording of the Basic Law § 106, but we need to balance the concerns of those listed and other purposes that are not explicitly mentioned in the paragraph. That's exactly what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e435	Representative Åsa Elvik said that Inge Lorange Backer has said that you can't change the Constitution every time you have to change things like this. But the Storting owes itself to making constitutional changes where constitutional changes are necessary, and where legislative changes obviously violate the Constitution's constraints. It was also stated by the representative of Åsa Elvik that there was a difference between the use of the funds and that of income. It is clear, however, that the use of the funds of the Fund must be subject to a requirement of soundness of interpretation. If you didn't, if you were to have a pure letter interpretation, you could give away any sum the fund had to acquire in addition to what's already in the fund. Section 2 of the Information Society Fund Act states: ‘Lova shall ensure that the fund benefits the Norwegian Church and that the values are preserved and yields returns in accordance with Grundlova § 106.’ In what way does the representative Elvik believe that the values are preserved and yield returns in accordance with the Constitution § 106, when such a large gift element as is now the basis for this is to be introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e448	As stated in the proposition, as we write in the setting, and with which the Government and the majority of the population are fully understood, the instruction involves a loss or a limitation of future returns on the capital of the fund. We are completely in agreement with that. So it's not that it's in violation of Basic Law § 106. On the contrary, we believe that Section 106 of the Basic Law requires how purchase sums and revenues should be managed, and not for the management of the fund in addition to this. This is the detailed discussion in the Law Department's statement, and we have this repeated in our remarks, and it's repeated from the government party's side here in the hall today. I accept that there are different legal views about it and that the minority has come to a different conclusion. But the majority are not in doubt that the instructions are not contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e453	We can essentially discuss the law and the formal light until we turn blue. For those who have to live with the results and consequences of the decisions we make today, there is hardly any particularly good consolation. I also noticed that Åsa Elvik said in his post that the majority parties, unlike the opposition, were occupied by the Santa Claus parties. But the truth is that the opposition has also granted a discount to the landowners, but what the majority here are doing is giving a further discount just to this group that attaches to the fund of the Information Society. My question is, why can't the majority say it outright: we further subsidize these Santa Clauss at the expense of the Church's child and youth work and at the expense of the homes of the clergy who actually have a duty to live where they are? That is the reality. Can't you say that straight out?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e460	I really agree with the questioner that we would like to be able to put the juice a little bit aside. But when things have turned out to be her, it is a little important to take the juice carefully. What we do in this case is that we make an assessment of the listed purposes in Section 106 of the Constitution against other purposes that are not mentioned, and then it is practice that the concerns of the Santa Claus have been emphasized by the Storting. It shows the legal sources. What we do in that assessment is that we balance them in such a way that we do not act contrary to the Basic Law § 106, but that also means that there are a large number of Santas around Norway that – if I can use the representative's words – will notice the effect on the body of the decision taken by the Odelsting and which is later sanctioned. We're very pleased with that from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e465	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e468	I think basically the last line exchange got the cat out of the bag, to say it like that. In this case, there has been one reason, and it is those who are to be subsidized by the state team, who are Santas in the matter we are discussing here. Then it's okay to get it clear, and with the clear speech that Åsa Elvik finished with in his line. Those who are the losers are the Enlightenment Fund, which now goes on a triple click. Firstly, with the decision taken today. Secondly, in recent years, the fund has been subject to more obligations than it previously had. So you're going to have to cover more than what you did in the past, and less than that. Thirdly, the fund is because of the financial turmoil we have, in a very difficult situation, which causes the return to be lower, which in turn means that those who are going to suffer under the decision are the child and youth work carried out in the Church, and the priests, who are under obligation, who desperately want to rehabilitate their homes. It's the losers in the game that this proposition has started. Of course, we can talk a lot about the Constitution. I just want to say something about the property relationships related to the Information Service's fund, since it was claimed by the Workers' Party that the previous government had also concluded that the fund is the property of the State. I would like to be quoted from the setting from the previous period. The Committee points out that the Ministry of Justice concludes with regard to property, etc., to which the representative of Kernli referred. And that's what's important. ‘The Committee agrees with the Gender Committee that, regardless of how the ownership of the fund is assessed, this will be a political issue on which the Storting is legally free to decide in the context of the selection process.’ With the hearing held by the Committee, with the unusually clear opinions of many prominent lawyers, and with the reservations of the Department of Justice itself, it is probably almost right to say that the position is 7–8–0 in favour of the Information Service Fund. But what does that help if the result was clear in advance? Of course, it doesn't help anything, because you've decided that this is the way it should be. It is rare to see such a lewd treatment of a case that has such consequences as this one does. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the Information Society's fund is an important heritage for the Church – then I am talking about the Church with great K, and not as an underuse of the State. The implementation of the Santa Claus directive means that the Fund’s values will be reduced by an estimated DKK 1.1 billion. In addition, annual fastening charges and fixed income will be reduced by 20 to 25 million. kr. It's not small money. This means that the fund’s values are transferred from the fund to individuals and at a price that would in many cases be very much below the market value. Some of those who are so fortunate that they have secured the land belonging to the fund, unlike many other landowners in the country, are granted a significant discount by the Government, a discount that they can reap again a significant gain from if it is realised by a subsequent sale of the property, i.e. a pure transfer of money. In this way, the Government takes values that the Norwegian Church has over time considered to be its heritage. With a pen stroke, the Government transfers values from the community to individuals. It is allowed to be clear, and the government wants to be clear in this matter as well. It's affordable, but don't worry about it, but use your own money. Taking away from local children's and youth work, taking from the refurbishment of clergy homes, taking from those who perform a service in the Norwegian Church, that is, from the community, and giving to private people, it's not roughness, it's confiscation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e490	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e493	In our country on 22 October we could read about Kjell Knudsen, who signed a party contract with OVF in 1955. The fund today requires over 600 000 kroner for the 832 m2 plot. "When we started, there was only forest in this area. We worked the road, the water and the sewer. I spent two years working on getting that house ready, and now I am going to buy it at market price in 2008. I think that's completely unreasonable." This is what Kjell Knudsen says. What would the Christian People's Party say to Santas who feel unfairly treated by the OVF?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e508	I would like to say the following: the discount that the majority of the Storting has granted to a large number of Santas in the country will also benefit those who have Santas at OVF. But from there to give them a discount that only the OVF itself has to answer for the consequences of, is completely unreasonable. If – and I cannot exclude it – there are individual cases to which the representative may now refer, which are totally unreasonable, it is entirely possible to make the right and the difference in the individual cases. There is nothing in a general instruction that prevents.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e513	The representative of the Seven spoke at the beginning of his speech about the work of children and youth in the Church. If the representative of Syversen had read the proposition, he would have learned that the department there stresses that it is a prerequisite that the economy of the Norwegian Church should not be weakened as a result of the instructions – just to reassure the representative of Syversen in relation to that very thing. So to ownership. At the submission by the Bondevik Government of St.meld. No 41 for 2004-2005, it adopted the opinion of the Legal Service which concludes that: ‘After a review of the relevant legal sources and the historical background of the Information Society Fund, the Legal Service has concluded that it must be considered as certain that the State is the owner of the Fund.’ Why has the Christian People’s Party now changed its mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e525	With regard to the fact that the child and youth work, which will suffer from the decision we are making today, will be compensated for it, I asked the representative instead if it was such that the government would ensure that you covered the crowns of the loss you suffer because of the decisions taken today. The representative said that's what you get back to. And if there's anything to be reassured about, then I have to say that then I have a little poor hearing just plain. So until the Bondevik II government said about ownership. The Bondevik II government was by no means under-used by lawyers. That is why the message, St.meld. No 41 for 2004-2005, About the economy of the Norwegian Church, said: ‘The Government further considers that the issue of the ownership or disposition of the Information Society’s fund by a possible distinction between the State and the Norwegian Church cannot be settled by legal judgement alone but by political decision.’ I would essentially also like the Workers' Party to be more concerned with politics and not with law in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e543	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e546	This case has its background in the wording of the Soria Moria Declaration, where the negotiating partners of the three government parties have a separate section called the Empty Party Act. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the «The government will instruct state-run funds and government properties to grant second-year redemption rights to 30 times consumer-priced original rentals.» I believe it is important to say that this is the background to this matter. It may also be right to mention that the OVF had actually been the price leader in the party rooms for a period of time. It resulted in some ugly headlines and heavy financial burdens for individuals, which we have also heard here in the hall today. It might be a good idea to start with a historical overview. The OVF has a historical background that cannot be overlooked in the consideration of the Government's proposals. Since the matter is complicated, it is important that it is seen in an overall context. The OVF was established in 1821. OVF is an independent legal entity that owns its properties and financial assets. The fund is a large landowner and owns, among other things, many precincts, precincts, celebration rooms and large forest areas. The OVF shall satisfy church purposes in accordance with the Basic Law § 106 and the Law of 7 June 1996 No. 33 Information Service Fund. OVF has its basis in properties that from the old of belonged to the individual priesthood as entertaining for the pastor. OVF manages, as is known today, church properties and the sales revenues generated by them since the origin of the fund and the adoption of the Constitution § 106. This means that the fund has significant equity, in addition to the property portfolio. The total value is going to be $6.6 billion. The starting point is that the fund shall finance the maintenance and operation of its own real values. This includes, inter alia: 440 dormitory homes. The properties are also important cultural values. In addition, the Fund is responsible for the financing of some older church buildings. The Fund also grants grants to the Norwegian Church. As can be seen from this point of view, the yield is used for important purposes. In the case of the proposed amendment to the Law on the Fund of the Information Society, the fastening instruction will apply to fasteners under the Fund. Those who fasten the property will be able to redeem the land at a lower price than under the rules of the Law on Landing. If the attachment does not redeem the land, the attachment could be subject to a more favourable tax regulation than under the Law on Landing. The benefit of the parties under the fund has given rise to a discussion on the limits set by the Basic Law § 106 for the management of the Information Society's fund. There are wide-ranging issues, and it is well known that legal expertise is opposed in this matter. From a religious standpoint, there is opposition to the implementation of the instructions, not because it is wrong or wrong to pay attention to the attachment, but because of the loss of value and income that the fund will receive. There is no disagreement that the implementation of the instruction implies that the future property income and sales income of the fund will be lower than they would be if the provisions of the Law on Landings were complied with. The calculations made are uncertain, but no one argues that the estimated loss for the fund will be significant. I would like to point out here what is written in Ot.prp. No 60 for 2007-2008, under the heading ‘Other remarks from the Ministry’: ‘The Ministry will stress that it is a premise that the economy of the Norwegian Church should not be weakened as a result of the instructions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e569	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e572	This article was not entirely in the core of the current discussion. This may be due to the fact that the Center Party, traditionally, is known for being a very strong champion of the rights of the landowners, and a party that is known for being constitutional conservatives and putting the Constitution very high. That is why I understand that the Central Party may have problems with the wording of the Soria Moria declaration. And the problems have probably not diminished, when it is so clear that the legislative amendment to the Government – of which the party of which the Skjälaa is a part – now promotes, is contrary to the Constitution. So the Skjellea has my deepest sympathy. But since the Schjellelaa is part of a government apparatus that has promised that the Church's economy will not be weakened by this bill, I could imagine to get his description on what proposals in the state budget are intended to compensate for the loss of income that OVF, due to this amendment, will get.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e579	Now, this amendment of the law has not yet been implemented. So the fund has not suffered any loss. And it would be strange if the state budget included funds for a possible future loss for the Information Society's fund. We are concerned that the Church's economy should be strengthened. Therefore, I think it is reassuring when the department writes in the proposition and it says in the setting that it is a prerequisite that the economy of the Norwegian Church should not be weakened by this. Then we'll find ways to do this, which the Council of State can certainly explain on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e586	I do not think the Council of State can explain the compensatory measures either, because they do not exist. That's what's at the heart of the question from the representative, Anundsen. I think it's just the government parties who believe that there's going to be compensation in the order of 200-250 million. kr – when the Government of this budget has not even committed funds to the development of democracy that is to take place in the Church, on which all parties on the Grand Duchy are agreed to take place, as a consequence of a new church system. After all, this bill must be a little painful for the Center Party, after all. And my question is, when 3 pst. of Norway’s parties party empty on OVF’s grounds, why is it such that these 3 pst. the parties must have completely different and far more favourable conditions than those applicable to 97 pst. by the parties of Norway? Or, to ask the question in a different way, the center party has to think of that as 97 pst. Of Norway’s landowners, there are completely unfair conditions, and should then do something to change the law on landowners.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e593	I'm glad that Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide is familiar with the views of the Center Party on the Santa Claus Act. It is good that she gets involved in the view of other parties in such an important matter, a matter that has created a lot of turbulence. The practice of the Information Society's fund towards some landowners has not been a good idea to read about in newspapers. I think, to the extent that it is right and reasonable, that land anchors under the Information Service Fund should be able to have reasonable good conditions – whether they continue to attach the land or they require redemption rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e600	Everyone who has followed the debate on the Santa Claus Act knows very well what the Senter Party means. And anyone who knows that the view of the Central Party was to be reconciled with the view of the Workers' Party and Minister of Justice Storberget knows that it would be a strenuous exercise. What amazes the Left and me is how in the world you were going to make the special compromise that you were going to pick out the Enlightenment Fund when you were going to find the point of intersection to satisfy the parties. What has the Information Society's fund done to make itself specifically deserving of this? What is the reason why this was where you had to make sure that the landowners got rights while the landowners had to pay? What is the special reason why it's in this one area you decided to draw the compromise line? In fact, I have never received an answer to that question – except, I would almost say, that negotiation logic can sometimes be special – but now I am waiting for a certain amount of excitement at the representative's response here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e609	The representative Dørum heard enough that I quoted from the Soria Moria Declaration, where it says: «The government will instruct state-run funds and government properties to grant second-year redemption rights to 30 times consumer-priced original rentals.» It does not state the information service's fund in particular, but it says'state-run funds'. And if you think back to 2005 and all the turbulence that the Santa Claus Act created at that time, I think it's very good to understand the wording of the Soria Moria statement on that basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e619	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e622	I've basically been following the debate on the Santa Claus Act for a few years, and I would like to say that the Santa Claus regulation is a very special regulated property right in Norway. It's demanding juice, it's socially difficult, and it's politically demanding. In fact, the Storting managed to make a very broad compromise on this matter in 2004, which the current government has essentially chosen to maintain, with one single exception, and that is the exception which, for all practical purposes, affects the Information Society's fund. It's not possible to describe this any other way than what I'm now trying to do. This is the closest one comes in understanding a kind of trade where Per Olaf Lundtigen and Knut Storberget are going to find an intersection. Anyone who has followed a little bit of the general social debate knows how parts of the Center Party have been excited about the Information Society's fund. And then you know that the State Council of Storberget has gone high on the track. You had to do something. I understand that the point here is the Soria Moria statement, that's where the parties attach. The parties attach to what they do in such government statements in relation to the Storting, so I have to say that I am mildly surprised that it is on exactly this part of the bond of land in Norway that one chooses to make a compromise. And it became even more special because all the parties, especially the parties that put in government, were very concerned that the Norwegian Church should have predictable incomes. Fortunately, this is the basis of the broad state-church agreement that we have had to continue. But first of all, if you really thought that you should feel that way, and if you first have the insight you should have – or at least someone in those debates had about the government's budgetary processes – it's not that it comes wandering a few hundred million dollars because you have blue eyes and have a good cause in a budget debate. That's not how it happens. These are pretty tough priorities. What happens in this case is that, as a practical result of the case, one chooses to set aside income that is absolutely essential, not only to run what the fund will do after the purpose, but also what is very important for the Norwegian Church. So it's double weird. First of all, a compromise on the Law on Landfills selects this part of the landowners in Norway. And then, when you are occupied with predictable incomes for the Church, you choose to attack one of the most predictable of your incomes, a fund that is also set up in the Constitution. Now I know that the debate here has been a lot about the Constitution. I have, based on my best judgement, come to believe that at least I am in doubt. I have doubts as to whether this could be in accordance with the Constitution. But to me, the core of the matter is pure, practical policy. The government uses political power to force a serious discrimination against those who have plots to attach away. You do it with your eyes open, and you say it right out. As the representative Giske has heard me say before in the hall, and as the old-fashioned social democrats said to me when I was young and put on the city board in Trondheim: Look at you, Dørum, here we have the power! And exactly what's happening in this case – except that I'm not going to sit down until I'm done with my post – is that you use power with the same undesired directness. And I'd like to say, as I've said before, because I've actually had considerable sympathy for the Council of State guessing after what I experienced through the state-church negotiations, and I repeat it: I actually have a certain sympathy for him to govern this greed. ‘Breediness’ is what I see as a parliamentary expression when it comes not to a personality character but to a process. When you do it that way, I need to call it what it is. When the left votes against, it's because we can't vote in favour of something that's so obviously discriminatory, when you have the legal basis in the Santa Claus Act, which you've chosen to keep for all the main reasons, after the Soria Moria Declaration. Then it's also like it's politics to decide who owns the Information Society's fund. I would like to confirm what the representative Syversen said. That's the way it was under the government of Bondevik. The law department said we were politicians, ours. That should be the way it should be in the future. It should be quite clear that it is a political view that the process of state-church reconciliation should be followed – and that will help the Left, to which I believe everyone will contribute – one must make sure that the Church also has a real contribution that matters in a situation where one gets a stronger release. To sum up, for the left, this becomes a very special expression of coalition negotiations, a new shining example that has to go into textbooks, a bizarre example, in my opinion, of how to discriminate against people who have plots, and in particular choose to take on a basic statutory fund. It's very amazing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e638	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e641	The representative of Dørum was Minister of Justice under the previous government. In an article in the Evening Post on 6 April 2004, the Minister of Justice Dørum wrote, among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It’s important to me that fixtures should not be allowed to leave the house and land because they cannot afford to redeem the ceremony.’ The left – and Dørum – then tried to show a certain interest in the party situation, an interest I cannot see in this matter and could hardly see it at the time. Earlier today, examples have been cited where people have to spend more than 600,000 kroner to redeem the sum under today's laws. My question is, where is the exposure to the left of those who have attached this plot, worked up this plot? Should not they also have their best interests taken care of, or is it only the Information Society's fund to participate in the increase in capitalisation that the parties have participated in refurbishment on this site?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e653	I understand that the Central Party defends the landowners, and that the Workers' Party defends the parties, and that is a very interesting division of labour within a government coalition. If one sits in a government – and that is how the representative Kjernlis party sits there – more interests should be weighed. What happened that spring in Stortinget was that you weighed something. A golden middleway was found between the interests of the parties and the interests of the partyers. That's what the Left has to say. It was also the case in the process we had then, that it was fully possible to sit down without being forced to redeem, so that you could sit in a proper way without being forced to the misery that the representative here is talking about, and that I fully agree that you should not come into. But a broad compromise was made, and that compromise was, in fact, so broad that on all the essentials it is retained by the sitting government, with the exception of what is done with the Information Society Fund. To me, it's a significant cross of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e660	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e663	This has been an interesting debate, and it touches on many important and complex issues, not least legal considerations. But there's probably reason to remember what Odelstinget is actually invited to adopt today, and that's a change in the law of the Information Society fund. That amendment of the law is in Section 5, and it concerns the fact that without prejudice to the first paragraph of Section 5, the King can give instructions on redemption and the fixation fee. So this is a warrant, it's a warrant to give an instruction on how these solutions are going to be done. I have heard very little in this room saying that giving a basis for instruction in itself may be unconstitutional. I think, among other things, The representative, Eriksen Soreide, somehow mysteriously manages to go from a reasoning where, in her opinion, the content of the instructions is unconstitutional, that the amendment of the law becomes unconstitutional. This is, to put it mildly, unclear jus. There is a difference in the content of the amendment, namely to provide a basis for an instruction, and to have an instruction which, of course, given a certain content may be contrary to the provisions of the Basic Law. So ask the representative Eriksen Soreide quite pertinently, I would say: why do you need such a change in the law if it's not that you feel restricted by the provisions that are there? Indeed, the text of the Proposition, page 19, states that the Law Department believes that Section 5 of the OVF Act sets a stricter framework for the use of funds in the Fund and their application than that resulting from the Basic Law, Section 106. It is therefore true that we have established in the proposition that the text of the Constitution, to which reference is always made, is not identical to the text of the first paragraph of Section 5 of the OVF Act. That's why we can make a change to the OVF Act, to give this home and this instruction, without making a change to the Constitution, because these paragraphs are different. The Constitution and the OVF Act are different in design and create different constraints. So to the instruction, it's like my constitutional responsibility is the OVF Act. The instruction is under a different state council, but we still thought it appropriate to have a proper and thorough discussion of the basic legality of the instruction in the same proposition, so that Odelstinget would have an opportunity to discuss these issues. I am pleased that the majority of the population joins the same opinion as the Government, and that the Department of Law of the Ministry of Justice has, namely that the instructions that have been designed are in line with the Constitution. It's said here that majority power -- I think it was Anundsen who said it -- is used to get through his will. Yes, what would the alternative be? That we used minority power to make the big thing's will visible? So here we get a big interpretation of the basic law of the instructions, which is consistent with the Justice Department's Law Department. I also thought it was special to hear the Progress Party talk about that the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice was a political body, and then only in some sentences afterwards show that the Progress Party, on the other hand, has a completely different interpretation of the Constitution. I wonder who has the most political leadership in his constitutional interpretation of the Progress Party and the Department of Justice. In our view, it is quite obvious that it must be possible to provide sound and good rules for the management of the fund. You could, for example: the issue of giving guidance on ethical issues, which did not necessarily lead to the absolute maximum profit. Would it have been in line with the Constitution's paragraph and intention? Of course it would have been. It must be possible to manage the capital of the State in a good and fair manner. I take note that the Right Party, and in particular the Advance Party, is following its insistence that once one has a capital, one should thin it to the last ear, regardless of the consistency for those who are then affected by the management of that capital. We have a different approach. We also care about those people who are actually affected by how the capital of the Enlightenment Fund is managed, as we also care about people who are affected by the management of another part of the state's capital. Finally, I have to say that when one says on a legal basis that the ownership of the Information Service's fund is legally disputed, it is simply not correct. It's been fixed time and time again that ownership is the state's. On the other hand, it is quite correct, as the representative Dørum says, that a future ownership of the Information Society's fund on the day the Norwegian Church may become a separate legal object is a political and controversial issue. We have said that the day it happens – if it is to happen – the financial organisation of the then released church must be provided much more than just what the OVF fund can contribute to. If a freed-up, self-organised church community is to survive on the OVF Fund, it becomes a relatively short-term activity. It must be entirely different from the state and the community if that church is to be well run and the open, active people's church that we want. This is a question that will be updated on the day it becomes a distinction, and we have to take that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e680	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e683	This article bears the impression that the Council of State may not have read the setting very carefully, but I will come back to that in a later article. But I want to challenge the Council of State on the constitutional responsibility, which he himself was so far within. In the committee position on page 13, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party wrote the following: ‘These members will draw particular attention to the constitutional responsibilities of the Council of State. An order to dispose of OVF's funds in breach of the Constitution may give rise to liability under Section 11 of the Liability Act. The Council of States shall not be released from liability by the Stortinget taking a decision on a matter which it does not have the competence to take decisions in, or by claiming to have acted on the basis of decisions taken by the Grand Duchy or the Government.’;» Does the Council agree with this assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e695	First, it is that different governments are responsible for different areas. My responsibility is the OVF Act. My responsibility is also very much on the way to managing the fund, i.e. primarily to contribute to the OVF's management of the long-term lines, and of course through that board's good management of the fund. In the case of the Santa Claus directive itself, it is subject to another Council of State. It lies under the government council of Grande Røys and is designed by her, of course in partnership with the government. The constitutional responsibility of the Council of State in its field is not removed by decisions taken in the Grand Duchy, but it is clear that decisions taken in the Grand Duchy are leading the way in which the Councils of State are to manage their responsibilities. It has been said once that power should be united in this Chamber, and that state councils should follow what is decided here. I think that a government council that wants a long life makes sense to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e704	What Odelstinget is today invited to do is to adopt a legal basis in order to implement an instruction whose content is contrary to the Constitution § 106. As lawyer Frode A. Indord said during the hearing, it will be very special to remove Stortinget's responsibility to ensure that there are no laws open to unlawful interference by the administration. I strongly suspect that the councillor Trond Giste was busy on another team when I gave my introduction, because I made it quite clear that this is not about issues of profit maximisation or not. No one has said that the fund should maximize profits – not me, not anyone else. To say that there are opposition parties that don't care about the parties is mildly said to be a little absurd. What becomes the relevant question to the Council of State is why 3 pst. the parties must have different and better conditions than 97 pst. of the parties in Norway have. That's the question. Of course, we do not disagree with the fact that the parties must have reasonable conditions. But why should 3 pst? of them have even more reasonable conditions? None of the government parties have a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e711	I think the opposition's peddlery becomes very interesting when you start approaching such discussions about the percentage of the fund's maximum profit that can be remunerated before you go over the line in terms of the management of the fund. If you accept that you can base other premises on the management of the fund than just to thin every penny out of every cent you have, you have to accept that there can be disagreement about where that limit actually goes. It is not a secret that the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party wanted to go much further when it came to Santa Claus in general, that we wanted a more modest law for people who would be masters in their own house, that we wanted it to be possible to have their own house even under a party contract that you could live with. We didn't get through there, but what we're up to is how the state manages its capital, and it's going to do it in the best possible and fairest possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e720	I would like to hear from the Council of State about the consequences of the decisions we make today, which could also be the consequences of the instructions that the Government can later give, namely that the Information Society's fund is losing money. So the proposition says that the government says that the Norwegian Church should not suffer financially because of the instructions that have to come. When we asked the Arbeiderpartiet earlier today if it means to cover the loss of a crown, we got such a wretched answer as to get it back to us on a later occasion. My question is, is it also going to be the Council of State's answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e732	Of course, we have to get back to the actual appropriations in every budget. But it's clear what the government has said, that this should not go beyond the Church's economy. That is, the transfers that go to the Norwegian Church, the framework to which the Church has to deal, should not be weakened by this decision. That means, as I see it, that if, for example, this is the case. through such a fairer, more social interpretation of the management of the capital of the OVF, it would appear that the total fixed tax income of the fund will be slightly lower and thus the dividends will have to be offset by increased appropriations for the Church or compensation by other means. It's solid. The Church's economy shall not be affected by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e737	A fund is created so that when the fund is managed, it yields a return. That return gives the fund completely independent of who is the Council of State, and it is completely independent of who is in government at all times. That's the strength of having a fund. We don't use funds very often in Norway. You don't like it in the macro-economy, because then you bind. The information service fund is the historical example. The Council of State knows very well what kind of discussion you have had in recent years about the Research Fund, which was actually meant to go free to research, but when we go through the budget year after year, we see that it goes into running. My wonder is basically this: what kind of insurance is it that the Council of State has been given that he can give the same assurance to compensate for something that would come as a safe return – what to guarantee will be given by the Government in the years to come? What kind of security does the Council of State have to be able to say this?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e746	It has no security to give to this Council of States. What I can say, is what our government is adding up, whether the voters in the autumn of 2009 help us, or there will be another majority who will have a different policy in place. Then the majority and the government must take responsibility for what policy they can pursue. We can take responsibility for what we want to facilitate. The research fund does not become a relevant comparison, because the Research Fund is actually – what we should call it – a design within the budget. It's not a fund manager of your own, it's not a board of directors of your own, it's a budget line, so you have a security for the research appropriations. They are more likely to be calculated after a template than after the exchange fluctuations — fortunately in these days. I am quite sure that the representative Dørum agrees with me that not only we as a state, but also an institution such as the OVF and citizens in general have a responsibility to manage the resources that you have, not only in terms of profit, but also for general social reasons. That responsibility should also be borne by the OVF, and that is what we are helping them to do through the Santa Claus directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e753	From representatives of the government parties we have heard that this lottery prize that the government has wanted to hand out to a few homeowners by draining the Information Society's fund for funds that should have gone for church purposes, actually ends in the resistance of the Workers' Party and the SV to the law of Santa Claus, and what is popularly called the loan scheme. We heard the council say that the government parties care about the parties. I was a little uncertain as to whether it only applied to the Workers' Party and SV, and not to the Center Party, but perhaps the Council of State can clarify it. My question to the Council of State is: Why don't the government parties change the law on Santa Claus instead, or even abolish it? You have a majority to do exactly that, or you don't have it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e760	It is not a secret that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre had a different view of this in the previous growing-up period. Our warm cooperation in these three years of government and our close relationship has now contributed to, among other things. The center part has got an even bigger heart heat for the parties than we thought they had in the previous period. We did not reach goals in the last period with the Workers' Party's vision – I can say for my party. We've gotten a little bit further through the Soria Moria statement and through what we put up to here. At least as politicians, and as a state, we can take responsibility for how we manage our capital, that what we do in relation to parties is socially responsible and based on the principles on which we want our society to build, of course within the Basic Law paragraphs, of course within the legal rules that apply. I am pleased that the bulk of the population joins in the interpretation that both the Law Department and the Government have in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e767	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e770	This matter is very complicated. It is also clearly expressed in the setting we are dealing with, and it is also expressed in the annexes to the setting by the fact that there are legal interpretations from different teams. With regard to the ownership of the Information Service Fund, I refer you to what the representative Kjernli explained earlier in the debate, and what the Legal Service came up with in St.meld. No 41 for 2004–2005, ‘that it must be considered as certain that the State is the owner of the fund’. It therefore has to be amended by law in the Act of the Information Society's Fund § 5 by means of a supplement in order for instructions to be applied. This instruction will obviously weaken the economy of the Information Society's fund, because homeowners could require lower redemption amounts than those resulting from the rules of the Landfill Act, but also because more favourable conditions of fastening will be given to those who wish to continue to attach the land. It is clear that the Information Society's fund is responding with great concern to the fact that the fund's values may be reduced to DKK 1.25 billion. The Norwegian Church also expresses concern, as the loss of value in the OVF will have consequences for transfers to the Church from the Fund. It's not hard to understand these concerns. But despite that, I believe that today's decision will create greater peace in the matter than it has been for a long time. Clearly, many parties will be pleased with this. They will feel more secure for their own housing by making it easier for them to own the land they have invested in, both through refurbishment and construction. They themselves will be able to get back for the value added they've added to the plot. A little popular we can say that the parties now get sovereignty transferred from a previously shared ownership. I'm not saying that this wasn't possible before, but that it's now getting easier. With regard to the issue of the Basic Law § 106, I am of the opinion that this has been thoroughly explained both through the hearings held by the Committee, the annexes to the case and through the examination carried out by the Committee. Let me still get the quotes a little bit from St.meld. No 64 for 1984-1985: «Fixed charges are initially fixed in accordance with the general price level of real estate in the place concerned, but caution has been shown in the calculation of charges. Where the fund is the dominant or the largest owner of the land, the fixing fees are kept at a reasonable level.» To this end, the majority of the Committee: ‘The majority point to this background that it is not new that one in the management of the property of the fund has given a lot of attention. In addition to church considerations, emphasis has also been placed on broader societal concerns. The majority of my insistence is a continuation of such a practice.’ That our government would make proposals for the Storting that would benefit the parties should not come as a surprise to anyone. Long before the 2005 elections, this was signalled, and there is no doubt that this created great expectations in many. The fact that we can finally finish this treatment is likely to be good for all parties. It gives a greater predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e800	Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e803	State Council Geske considered that the amendment to the law which is being dealt with here, the amendments to Section 5 of the Law on the Fund of the Information Society, are not in themselves unconstitutional, because the instructions will first be the subject of the law which is illegal. It's kind of like reasoning so that you can justify torture, but it's not unconstitutional before you take advantage of it. It will be a completely hopeless reasoning. So we're familiar with the contents of the instruction. So Odelsting cannot close its eyes to the consequences of the change in law that is now taking place. As far as I'm concerned, there's no conflict in the legal environments about that understanding. The Council of State argued that the Progress Party used the term ‘multiple power’. So it's related to the fact that the Progress Party believes it's wrong to use a simple majority to override a change that really requires a 2/3 majority. I think the Council of State actually got it with me. I think he also came to realize that the basis for the conclusions of the Progress Party is not something we've come up with ourselves, but it's Professor Eivind Smith and lawyer Innjord who have made several thorough assessments of this, as thorough as the Law Department's assessments, which are the basis of the Ministry of Justice. So the Council of State also went in the same trap as the representative Elvik, because when you interpret the Constitution, you start to read the letter of the law. But in the case of the Basic Law, and in the case of other laws, the letter is an interpretation theme. There is no disagreement in any legal environment, nor in the Ministry of Justice's law department, that the provision also requires the sound management of the fund's capital. There has been disagreement as to what the concept of ‘responsible management’ actually contains. The representative, Kjernli, considered the conclusion of the lawyer, Indord to be a works of order, while the conclusion of the law department was obviously quite objective and without political influence. But Professor Eivind Smith was not mentioned by the representative. So Professor Eivind Smith is not a little bit of a good guy when it comes to constitutional questions. I could imagine challenging Kernli to answer why Eivind Smith's reasoning is not at all weighted, when he says that it is clear that the amendment of the law is contrary to the Basic Law § 106 – clearly. So the position today has made a big point of who owns the Information Society's fund. The ownership of the Information Service Fund has nothing to do with this case, and it will not affect whether the amendment is within or outside the Basic Law at all. And then you make such a strange reasoning that it's going to be completely clear. Yes, within today's system of a state church where the Church is not a legal entity of its own, there is not much disagreement about that. The ownership ratios have always been discussed in the context of the distinction between state and church.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e818	The debate we have had here today has reinforced my impression that the position parties, the government parties, do not fully know the consequences of the decision they are about to take. One thing is that they obviously ignore the juice. You can understand that, especially when the juxtaposition is not on their side. The ownership of the Information Service's fund has nothing to do with the matter – I stress nothing. It has also been clearly established by the Ministry of Justice's law department. They said, in consultation with the Committee, that the limitations of the Basic Law § 106 apply regardless of the ownership of the Fund of the Information Society. Secondly, as far as the question of profit maximisation is concerned, none of the lots in the room has stressed or said that the Information Society Fund has a right to profit maximisation, or to dilute all possibilities out of every ear, as the Council of State said. On the contrary, we have all felt that the fund has, of course, the possibility and should also be able to take wider social considerations, but they must be within the scope of the Constitution § 106 sets out as its purpose. So you can't take any social and broad considerations, you have to deal with the constraint of the Basic Law § 106. In the opinion of us and many others, therefore, the legal framework we are about to adopt today, which opens up an instruction that everyone knows the content of, is contrary to the purposes set out in Section 106 of the Constitution. Then the Council of State also tried to make a subtle remark that it is not a change of law that becomes unconstitutional. But the question isn't. We know exactly what instructions we're opening here, with what authority we're opening to give instructions. And then it's completely irrelevant whether it's the law or the instruction that's unconstitutional, as long as the question really is: does the Stortinget now open up so that the administration can take decisions about interference that are contrary to the Constitution? Yes or no? We believe yes, and therefore we also believe that the Storting cannot adopt this provision. I have tried several times to ask the question about why it is so that 3 pst. the parties in Norway shall have significantly better conditions than the 97 pst. others. I have not received a very good or convincing answer to that – in so far as I have received an answer at all. I also think that there has been very little blackness about how the Government intends to comply with the Council of State writes in its letter to the Council of Churches dated 2 October 2007, that the Church's economy should not be weakened as a result of the instructions. The representative of the Rune Kjällaa said that it was not common to take into account future instructions or future law decisions when making a budget. But the whole point of this matter is that this will come into force as soon as possible – 7 November is what has been set as the date of entry into force. I believe that is good within the financial year 2009, into which we are now going. Then it should also be that the government could already say something about how they intend to compensate the 200-250 million. kr as the Church now becomes ahead of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e833	In many other contexts, the concept of the Church of People is very often used, that you are happy in the Church of People, and that you want to secure the foundation of the Church of People in this country. So it's often the same representatives who use this honorary title that we can all stand behind, which undermines the work that the Church is actually supposed to do, and which anchors the people's church to the people you're supposed to serve. Just like in this case, where what is being hit, perhaps is some of the most vulnerable work, namely work for children and young people. So the council says, well, it's going to be compensated. But from the statements that have come, it is very easy to see the picture of how this compensation is going to happen. It is that a proposal for the Norwegian Church is proposed in the budget proposal, and then a sentence is added that the loss suffered by the OVF is included in the budget – sentence. I think we can safely say that is the result of the decisions taken here later today. What does that mean? Well, that means that the Church, once again, actually loses some of its own governing rights over the funds that you can dispose of through the fund. There will be a transfer to the Ministry's jurisdiction that weakens the Church's own foundation in order to ensure that those who need it most receive funds where required. The summary for me in this debate is: it doesn't cost much to be at the expense of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e845	As far as I have understood it, the Law Department in its writing has underlined the need for the Stortinget to take a position on the question of the Constitution § 106. I assume that it is because the Law Department will believe that if this case is brought before the courts, among other things. by claiming that it is unconstitutional, the Supreme Court will be able to add that the Stortinge has actually expressed an opinion on the question, a certain interest. I would like to say that, in my opinion, such an interest from the Supreme Court could only be asserted if it was a large one with a significantly larger majority, at least a two-thirds majority, who might have stated that it was within the Constitution. If there is a significant majority of more than two thirds who believe that it is within the Constitution, the Supreme Court knows that then the Stortinget would be able to change the Constitution in a normal, correct way in order to win out with its view. But when this is a small majority who believe that this is within the Constitution, and it happens to be the government parties, which obviously also have considerable control over what comes from the Department of Justice, I don't think the Supreme Court should attach any particular importance to it. That is why, on an independent basis, without giving the small majority any weight, it is the Supreme Court that has to decide on the subject of constitutional law. That's the one thing I want to express. The second is a question to the Council of State. If a case is brought before the courts, on the basis that these instructions and the law are non-constitutional, will the Council of State – in my opinion, of course, he must, but can he confirm that he will – await the final decision of the Supreme Court on the constitutional question before he does anything to initiate the sale through the OVF of these properties? There will be a hopeless situation if sales are carried out, but then, when it comes to Supreme Court proceedings, one finds that it is unconstitutional. Then you will get a real soup to try to transform the sales that have been made in the past. Then it will be those who have received the purchase, who will find themselves in a difficult situation. In other words, will the Council of State ensure that such a situation does not arise, by ensuring that no sale is made until the Supreme Court has finally ruled whether this law and this instruction is contrary to the Constitution § 106 or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e854	For the sake of order, I would like to quote what the Left says about the relationship to the Constitution, on page 14 of the setting: ‘This member further believes that there is still considerable doubt as to whether the proposed amendment can be in accordance with the Basic Law § 106. This member will therefore reject the legislative proposal.’ When I took the word now, it was to say that when even the most reasonable and mildest understanding of the relationship with the Constitution would be to say that the Government is insensitive, it would itself be prudent. After this debate, there is only reason to note that there is no such care. There is also reason to note that the Council of State says that it is perfectly right, because it was the way one compromise on Soria Moria, that one chooses to treat a group of landowners in the way one does, on the basis of the Information Society's fund. It means, in other words, that it is quite right to discriminate against the general principles of the Law on Landfills, which apply to everyone else in the country. The last relationship, which has come out of a number of lines here, is that it is not possible to get the Council of State to answer in principle, clearly and clearly what it is at least the Church is going to get back. But we can do an exersis: the majority here wins, the instructions come into force, and the requirements of the Santas are already coming into effect early in the New Year. Then we know pretty quickly what values this is about. Then we have to consider, if the words of the Council of State and the words of the Government are to be believed, that there will be a bleak amount in the revised national budget. Because it's that close. State Council Giske made it so in the early round that of course he could not answer on behalf of future governments. No, that's very cool. Then he took the small, elegant fine that, like all the other representatives, I had to be concerned that the citizens should have the best possible. Yes, I'm concerned about that, of course, just like the Council of State. I am concerned that the citizens who are attached to us having a well-funded church system and predictability in that relationship will continue to have it. It is also part of my citizen's duty to take care of it when I am a representative of the same citizens here in the Parliament's pulpit. But the very specific test of money, as far as the Council of State is concerned, is probably already taking place in the new year. Then we'll see pretty quickly in the spring how you're willing to follow up these questions. I think you should pay attention and act with much greater caution than what you do in this case. I sum up that the matter brings me unpleasantly back to almost the beginning of my political career, many, many years ago, in Trondheim: we have the power, we use it, and you others can put you! But we're not going to do that, we're going to follow. We're going to be a critical opposition, because that's how it's going to be in a case like this. The Council of State just has to assume that we, who are critical in the way we are, in this case, do not get milder vote because we sweep off with elegant rhetorical fines from the pulpit in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e874	I belong to those who are pleased that the representative Dørum does not sit down, either when he is standing on the platform or in political significance transferred, and I am absolutely convinced that he will not be sitting down for a very long time when he leaves the Stortinge next year. I am pleased with that commitment, and any government, regardless of batch color, needs an enlightened and living opposition that sharpens decision-making quality. Nevertheless, I have to say that the reasoning underlying the conclusion – we know what the instructions contain, so it is unconstitutional to give permission to give instructions – is a rather strange construction. Let me take an example to explain to the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right what I mean. Paragraph 54 of the Constitution states that elections are to be held every four years, and it is to be held before September is over. That's what Section 54 of the Constitution says. If, then, the Stortinget provides a basis for instruction to the Government, as has been done by the Election Act, so that the Ministry of Local Affairs sets a date for election, it is not in itself unconstitutional, but if the Ministry of Local Affairs decides that the date of election is 7 October, it is unconstitutional. If you then know that the Ministry of Local Affairs has planned to set the election date to 7 October, then the solution is not to declare the basis from which they have made that decision unconstitutional. In that case, the argument is that the house is completely in order, but the conclusion, 7 October, is unconstitutional. It's not worse. And that's completely parallel to this. The question is not whether the home is unconstitutional. After all, it is fully possible for the Storting to provide permission to the Government to give instructions on how to manage the fund. The representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide himself says that it should be possible to take a broader social dimension. It's not one-sided maximum profit. In other words, it must be possible to use different judgements. So I can't understand how it can be groundbreaking to provide a basis for such discretion in the OVF Act. And I haven't heard a single post here in the hall that explains it, other than: Yes, but we know what the instructions contain, and that's what we think is unconstitutional. It's not a reasoning that makes sense. All the representatives who have been to the pulpit are, of course, good logic. It shouldn't be hard to understand. Then there is disagreement about whether one has extended the home too far with that instruction as to how much percent or how much of the fund's earnings potential can be used for wider societal reasons. We accept that there is disagreement, but we are pleased that the majority of the population join the same thing as the Government and the Law Department, namely that this is not unconstitutional. I agree with Mr Hagen that if this had clearly been unconstitutional, there would not have been enough of two-thirds of the majority in the Chamber who said so either, then you would have made the constitutional amendment. It does not help to say it either then, if it is unconstitutional. We believe that it is not unconstitutional. That is what the Legal Service believes, which has not done so according to political instructions, and I note that the majority of people in this House agree with that. Finally, when ownership came up, it was because it was brought in as a legal moment, among other things. by Eriksen Soreide. There we disagree, too. Let me just get two seconds, President, then I won't go up again. To the representative, Mr Hagen, what happens in any legal case, for example: is required to suspend this Decision, we will be dealt with at the beginning of any legal proceedings. I don't want to preface any answer to that from this pulpit right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e891	This last post was extremely interesting, because I think the Council of State has understood the point, but he does not understand the consequences of it. I think he'll do that if he reads the setting one more time, a little bit more carefully, because that's the relationship between the law and the instructions that can be given as a result of the home, which is unconstitutional. There's no big discussion about it in legal environments, as far as I've understood it. Instead, the Council of State can consult with them afterwards. When the representative of the Chillaa was in the pulpit, he stated that the Council of State was to explain how to compensate for the loss of income. After all, we have heard that the Council of State has made clear that he will not be prepared for this, except that the loss of income will be compensated in so far as his party is in government. It's a bad guarantee. It is a terrible poor guarantee, for it has only one year's duration, and hardly that. The only way to ensure compensation that is in line with the intention is to compensate for the loss that OVF suffers. I think it is sad that the Council of State is not clear that this is what is in the wording that one should not lose at this stage. But the main reason why I took the floor was the relationship with the majority and hardly a majority, for this debate will probably be read carefully by the Supreme Court when they might consider this matter. Then it's worth noting that the majority formally is not necessarily the same as the majority real. We listened to the Kschlala's posts that it's not with great enthusiasm that they participate in this, although I'm not going to say that if they had been completely free, they would have done something else. But it is not certain that the scarce majority is really as strong as a scarce majority once.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e900	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e903	I explained in my post that the provision of the Basic Law § 106 does not prevent social considerations from being taken into account in the management of OVF's properties, but these considerations are secondary and extend only as far as the Constitution § 106 sets as a barrier. The point is also, as the representative Anders Anundsen explained, that when an authorisation is requested to implement any instruction, Stortinget has its own responsibility to ensure that what is then the result of the policy is not that the administration can operate with acts that are unconstitutional. That's what's at the heart of the question here, and as I see it in many ways, it's clearly left out, both from the Council of State and from others. I repeat what lawyer Frode Innjord said at the hearing of the committee: ‘Everyone understands that such a logic is wrong in its place, completely depriving the Stortinget of the responsibility of the national Parliament to ensure that there are no laws open to acts of unlawful interference by the administration.’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e913	Only cards until this last one. I think Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has a very long job in front of her if she in all the lawrooms that the Stortinget has given to the Government, she is going to put in the same restrictions that the Constitution gives. That's not how it works. After all, the government and the administration have to deal with the Constitution every day, regardless of whether the funds we've got to do our work and make decisions, contain the same restrictions as the Constitution has. That's how the legal system is built up. I heard nothing undermining my example of election day. It's quite possible for the government to break the Constitution here. It would be terribly stupid by the Government. But home doesn't take away by law, it's not home that's unconstitutional. But I made this point very clear last time, so we don't have to keep doing it. The reason I took the floor again now was that I was not able to answer the representative Dørum's question about when this compensation came into the picture. This is how – I understand that it is right – the payment from the surplus to the OVF goes one year afterwards. The transfers received by the Church in 2009 are based on the results of 2008, so that the consequences of an instruction for the Fund when it enters into force, possibly in 2009, will only be passed on to the Church’s economy in 2010, and it is when it turns out for the Church’s economy, that it will be relevant to compensate for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e920	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e936	Dag Ole Tegen will put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e939	I just want to present proposal No. 1, which is distributed, so that we can correct an incursion from a previous treatment. So we want to vote for I and II, as they stand in the vote, and vote for III and IV, as they are in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e944	The representative, Dag Ole Tegen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e947	The proposal that has now been put forward has been promoted because of the need to correct an incubation which has arisen in connection with voting in Odelstinget. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party, I would say that we will give our support to this matter, so there is reason to believe that it will be unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e952	Thank you for that. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e962	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e970	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e1015	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left will also vote against this? - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e1030	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e1038	During the debate, one proposal has been put forward, from Dag Ole Tegen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e1065	The President has understood this on the Chairman of the Committee that this proposal will be unanimously approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e1249	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e1261	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-10-23-lower.ana.ud2464e1336	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before this meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
