ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e22	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Socialist Left Party Group to the representative Karin Andersen from 16 January onwards and until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Hedmark County, Christoffer Horsfjord Nilsen, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Karin Andersen. Other alternates of the Hedmark County, Frøydis Elisabeth Sund, currently have maternity leave and are therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge during Karin Andersen's leave. The third alternate of Hedmark County, Steinar Amundsen, is proposed to meet during the leave period. - This is deemed to have been adopted. Steinar Amundsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e64	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Dag Terje Andersen State Council Manuela Ramin-Osmundsen State Council Terje Riis-Johansen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e83	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. Yesterday today's Business revealed that Entra Eiendom had sold the Postyard in Kristiansand without this being advertised for sale. This is a property of approx. One hundred million. kr. Exactly what the price of the property is, there are very few who know, since it has not been put out for sale. As this has been a closed sales process, large reactions have been made by property investors in the business community. The fact that a few have had the opportunity, while others have had to sit on the fence and watch, has created reactions. There are a lot of questions you can ask about this, and one of them is why not Entra Eiendom has used an open sales process, where everyone has been able to participate. Among other things, Realia Development has told Entra Eiendom that they are interested in buying the Post Office, without having been contacted. It's speculation that this is camaraderie, and that there's a little bit of acquaintance. It's an unyielding way Entra Eiendom has performed. Nor is it new that Entra Eiendom has acted insolently. It's been a short month since there was a case in the Stortinget about the Riksrevision's investigations that had revealed turbulence in Entra Eiendom. Part of this has also been sent to Ecokrim. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: When Entra Eiendom sells properties under hand, is the Council of State satisfied with the process that has been associated with the Post Office in Kristiansand?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e98	I registered in the morning today that I have received a written question on the same topic from the representative Korsberg, and of course it will be answered in more detail than I can do now, with the overview I now have. Based on the look-up in Today's Business yesterday, we have addressed the first questions to Entra. What we have been informed about so far is that the company that was chosen to trade the property has been in contact with nine stakeholders in connection with this sale. So it is not that there has been contact with only one buyer. Then I agree with the representative of Korsberg that it is particularly important - particularly with the background to the comments that came from the Riksrevision and the Stortinge's examination of the Riksrevision report - to be careful with the Entra proceedings. In this case, some of the things that Entra was criticised for in that report, namely the lack of traceability and the lack of evidence of property sales, have been addressed in another way here. This case has been dealt with in the board of directors regarding the choice of property company to conduct the transaction - the company that has previously been in the same property. The matter has been dealt with in the board and clearly documented. These are the answers I have received so far, but on the basis of the written question from representative Korsberg, I would of course ask for further and more exhaustive answers from Entra. It is not normal for the Ministry to enter into each transfer of property. Let me finally say that I also have to rely on asking Entra questions based on this, because a claim from Today's Business is not the same as that it is a documented whole. In the case of Entra, in order to take it as a completely concrete example, today's business has clearly written wrongs in the past, for example. an article that we would have planned to let Norwegian Property enter as owner in Entra despite the fact that Stortinget has never given such a sale. [[The President announced Øyvind Korsberg.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e111	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is assumed that the Council of State responds more from a more principled point of view, as this has just been a matter in Stortinget. What's the big problem is that this happens in a closed round. There's a few that have the opportunity to be allowed to live on this property. In other words, you really don't know if you get the right price of the property. So, according to today's business yesterday, there was an investor that was going to pay $10 million. kr higher than that for which it was sold. Based on the debate that has taken place in the past, and because this question is going to come back to Stortinget as a matter of its own, does the Council not see the need to suspend the powers that Entra Eiendom holds today? As far as I know, those powers go up to 100 million. NOK in the case of sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e120	It's right, as the representative says, that I should have a principle approach to this matter. That means that I have to ask questions about what has been said in today's business, is correct, and in that case ask for an explanation as to why you have done so. The answers I have received for a short time - which is not final and not thorough - are that there have been several stakeholders inside the picture and that the board has been inside the picture. In the case of powers, it is not the case that we can withdraw from companies powers to make the sale and purchase of property. I assume that what the representative refers to is the authority that the board has entrusted to the administration, and there goes the 50 million limit. kr. So this sale was $95 million. NOK - something about fare - and therefore the board has dealt with that matter. So this case has been dealt with correctly in that respect, but that is the basis for asking more questions, and it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e127	There will be four follow-up questions -- first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e130	This case, which has now been revealed in today's business, is in itself serious. The mess we've seen in Entra in the past builds up under the lack of and unprofessional ownership policy that we've seen in the sitting government. Unfortunately, there are many examples of unprofessional ownership management from the Government. We have the former Odfjell case, the appointment of the chairman of Statoil, the so-called Hydro case relating to options, the purchase in Aker and the last case, where the Prime Minister tried to influence Telenor in the appointment of Chief Editor in the A-press. This is part of a pattern, where we see that the state and the state council show an unprofessional management of ownership policy, and in this context: what signals and guidelines have been given to Entra. How will the Council of State regain confidence in the state co-ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e137	The President will point out that this question is a little outside of the main question, but will leave the Council of State to decide whether he will answer the question from the representative Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e141	If that's okay for the president, I'm going to start by answering the ‘nearly’ main question, because there was also in the introduction to the tirad here a comment related to the National Audit Report on Entra Eiendom, and allegedly root of this government. I have to remind you that I've been to the Entra Eiendom hearing. I prepared myself relatively thoroughly for it and answered questions about different properties around in Oslo. In common with all the questions I had to answer about the concrete critical points, they were essentially related to what had happened during the previous government. Just so there's a little bit of order here. So the main criticism of Entra was things that in time coincided with the previous government. I am not going to claim that the then state council also sat and approved the individual property transfers in Entra. We have governance models for that. I want to follow up the critical remarks that came against Entra. So in this case, it's a statement for now. It gives me reason to ask questions, but it is clear that this trade has been better documented than some of those mentioned in the previous round. So we're going to follow up on what the Storting said.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e152	Ingredient S. Sørfonn - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e155	I registered that the Council of State did not say that he was pleased with the process, but I should have wished that he had been even clearer that as Minister of Industry he could not accept closed processes in such matters. It's like an open public announcement is in line with good business practices. It creates the same opportunities for everyone, and it should be a good social democratic principle. Furthermore, this would provide a legitimate and accountable value management. So my question is, is the Minister of Industry agreeing with these three principles that I have listed? And: What will he do to make similar things not happen in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e162	It is correct, as the representative Sørfonn says, that I did not say that I was satisfied with the process. I did not say that I was dissatisfied with the process. I said I wanted to investigate what has actually happened. It is therefore too early to draw any conclusion on the basis of one claim in a medium of Entra. That's why I'm doing it the way it's supposed to be, I'm dealing with Entra and I'm asking for answers, among other things. on the basis of the written question that I have now received from the representative of Korsberg. In the hearing and in the treatment we had from the National Audit Office's report, one of the topics discussed was that sometimes it was normal to dispose of property without advertising, but after contacting several relevant developers in the environment. In the real estate business, it's relatively normal, i.e. industry, but it still gives me the basis to ask Entra critical questions, and I want to ask the questions before I give the answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e169	Leif Helge Kongshaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e172	As many people have been involved, the state property company Entra Eiendom has distinguished itself by selling properties without competition and advertising or bidding rounds. In addition, the company spends millions of dollars per year, among others. sponsoring football clubs. A private company may permit such acts, but in the opinion of the Left, it cannot do so by companies which manage the interests of the Community. The left considers that the country’s main task in the property market should be to contribute to a market of healthy competition and with as cheap premises as possible for tenants. The left also believes that the government should sell itself out of Entra through an open process, where you get the most out of the values. Do the councils agree? Or, otherwise, why is it so important that a 100 pst. state-owned companies shall operate with the rental of office premises, the purchase and sale of property and the sponsorship of top sports?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e181	Then we're more concerned with the political disagreement about ownership in Entra. I believe that in connection with the ownership message there was no request from the Government to Stortinget to obtain an authorisation to sell. There was also no majority in Stortinget that wanted to sell parts of Entra. A proposal from the Right to privatise Entra was actually voted down in the Stortinget. As the Council of State, I think it's a good idea to deal with the decision of the Storting, and it's now that the state still has to own Entra 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e186	Kåre Fostervold - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e189	It is not certain that something illegal has happened in this case. It is not certain that there is any reason to pursue Entra in that way, but the government has, after all, started -- and is well done -- a process in which one has gone through the brokerage industry and demanded greater transparency. Some regulatory restrictions have been introduced to have transparency about the sales processes. What I'm asking is whether the Council of State, without having to collect any more information, agrees that in the case of state companies and property companies, at least there should be equal openness, if not greater, around the sales processes here, so that we are sure that these happen in a proper and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e194	Now it is true that transparency in commercial matters is sometimes having discussions between the parties about transfers, etc. Generally speaking, in relation to transparency, the answer is yes. Of course, a state-owned whole-time company should be at least as good and preferably better than the corresponding other companies in the industry. In terms of transparency in terms of traceability - that it should therefore be possible to follow the decisions taken by Entra - it was one of the points strongly criticised in the Riksrevision report. I explained this in Stortinget during the examination of the report, which we have systematically followed up with the board. So, as I answered the first question, traceability is present in this case. The second question asked in connection with this matter will also be answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e203	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e207	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. Over the autumn, we have had a number of discussions related to the protection of state children about a number of difficulties in making this system work. In these discussions, it has been found that the private actors feel skewed. We also see that several of them have had to step down the business. Some have gone bankrupt, and there is great concern in the system. I got the impression that the Council of State had a sense of crisis for this in some of the debates we had, for example. in the context of the State budget. I must say that I am taken by some wonder when, in the new year, I am constantly getting new calls, from new institutions, which I had not heard of before, which are in great difficulty, and which look quite dark in the future. I also get phones from parents asking about what is going to happen to their children, at the latest yesterday from Bente Georgsen Skoglund. I do not expect the council to answer exactly her case, but she has a daughter at the Svalstuen in Hallingdal. Her situation illustrates this quite well. The daughter is in a system that works, but the Svalbard doesn't know if they exist after July 1st, and it creates great uncertainty and concern. She's not alone. There's a lot of parents in this. What will the Council of State do to ensure the security of this system? What will the Council of State do to ensure that the companies that now feel that they are operating on termination actually have a framework that will enable them to function? What will the Council of State tell the children who are now paying the price of having an uncertain life situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e218	I have a lot of attention on the situation in the child protection institutions, where there are 1 400 children today. I would also like to remind the representative Thommes that there are 30 000 children on child protection measures. I'm concerned with predictability. I have a decision from Stortinget that we should reduce the use of private institutions, and so I understand the uncertainty associated with another policy direction, the direction we want to take. It is not only private institutions that need to reduce and slow down their activities, but also public ones. We're busy getting into a system of predictability. I have said that I am willing to assess whether we are going to enter into four-year contracts, just to provide security. But then it has to be, among other things. be any assumption of quality which would have to be taken into account. We have a lot of attention. We have dialogue with both private and commercial actors and with other actors in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e227	My line to this must be: It doesn't help with "noticing" if nothing happens. It's a bad response to those who don't know if they have a place to live after 1 July, that you have attention around the matter. The question of stepping down on the private players is, of course, a question that we have in this room. I can assure you that if the Council of State had come up with a proposal that we should create greater predictability around the whole of child protection, there would be broad support in this room. What we're experiencing is that you put ideology in front of these children. You run a tight race towards wanting government institutions at the expense of the private ones. Obviously you're willing to pay a high price for that ideology. I have to remind you that these are people we're talking about. The follow-up question has to be... [[The President announces to the Council of State Manuela Ramin-Osmundsen.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e236	It's not right that we're not concerned with predictability. We are concerned that children should first of all receive a good offer. In that system, we're looking to find the best actors. We are committed to basing ourselves on a system of public and well-run institutions and non-profit institutions complemented by good private institutions. But it's going to be slowing down, because it's professionally well-founded that we don't deserve to have too many kids in institutions. We deserve to find the best offers for all children. So we don't just have attention. I have notified a number of changes. We have ongoing conversations, not only with our office, Bufetat, but also with private actors and non-profit actors in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e241	There will be four follow-up questions--first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e244	We're talking about the kids at risk. We're talking about the children who may have had insecure growth and actually cannot live at home, and who now live in private institutions that they don't know if they're going to live on. So you don't have enough foster homes. You don't have enough shelter. At the same time, private institutions are being built up. There are children on the waiting list to get to the institution. Then the Council of State builds down the private institutions despite the incredibly great need. And the competence lies in the private institutions. I just have to ask the Council of State question: is the Council of State absolutely certain that this hidden degradation - because that's what it is - by private institutions does not result in children who are on the waiting list and who should be at the institution, not coming there?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e251	Children in need of institutional space do, but not all children need institutional space. That's also why we have this twist, to give good action to children who need it. We can't have a system where we place children in institutions that don't belong there. The predictability that private actors demand, we will give, and we are in dialogue with them. But it's also true that we can't have more spaces than we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e256	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e259	Now, given the downgrading of institutions because one wants a twist, we know that today we have a lot of kids waiting to be placed in a foster home, but they won't. We know it's hard to recruit enough foster homes. We know that the follow-up of those who are foster parents is not good enough, and that the professional, economic and legal rights of those who are foster parents should be much better than what they are today, so that they can be foster parents, and that they should be able to follow up their children in a good enough way. I would like to ask the Council of State: if there is too much institution building before we have enough foster parents -- and that's the situation today -- what will the Council of State do to ensure the recruitment of enough foster parents, so that the children become sure? We shouldn't have any degradation until we've had enough foster parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e264	It is important that children who need foster homes get foster homes and not institutional places. We work actively to get enough foster homes. One child who needs a foster home and doesn't get it is a child too much. I have full attention to foster home placement and construction in that sector, but we cannot build an institutional system when it is technically justified that children are best served with completely different framework conditions. If they need foster homes, they'll have foster homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e269	Step Skei Grande - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e273	I would like to ask the Council of State what is most important: whether it is the children and the children's best that are most important, or whether it is the ideological struggle of the Government against private institutions that is most important. After all, it is not just private that operates these private institutions as defined by the Government. There are also very many non-profit institutions that are involved and run these, and that in the government's fight against private institutions are subject to the same regime as the private owned institutions become. It was an orphanage child who said it feels incredibly uncomfortable when your home goes bankrupt. The government's fight to get rid of the private institutions actually leads to some of them going bankrupt, and that leads to the child's growth feeling very insecure. So the question is very simple: what is most important -- the ideological struggle against the private or the struggle for these children to receive predictable and good treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e280	What's most important is child protection that offers good deals to all children who need it. Nor can we have private institutions that have large profits, and that when the government asks them to work under other conditions, they go bankrupt, and then we have to maintain their business. We don't want that kind of business. We also have quality requirements for public institutions, and it is worth noting that some public institutions are shutting down. We're looking to find the best institutions. We're concerned with quality, we're concerned with transparency, and in that direction we're continuing our work. I also want to say that we have no child protection in crisis. We have a reform that's going well, and we have to work with and further develop to give the best possible offer to all children who need it -- and that's 40,000, not just the 1,400 who get institutional space today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e287	Kari Lise Holmberg- to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e290	In private child protection, there are peaks of competence in a wide range of areas. For example, I can mention forced marriage and trafficking in human beings. What characterizes private child protection is that there are people who see needs and find solutions and who put these solutions into practice. Does the Council of State really believe that pure state child protection can replace the important work of considerable effort and commitment, idealism and volunteering?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e295	It must have been a misunderstanding. We have never said that we want a pure state child protection. As far as institutions are concerned, we need to have child protection with public institutions complemented by non-profit institutions and private actors. But then we have to differentiate our institutions into actual needs, and those needs are dictated not only by how many employees in private institutions wanting to continue working there. But we want good cooperation with private actors. We're in the process of doing that, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e300	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e303	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. We have children who live in Norway who have experienced human trafficking, who have experienced forced marriage, and who have experienced trauma from war and flight. It is important that these children get a special follow-up and a particularly professional, close and good job, so that they can process these things. In Farsund we have a new institution that is empty and completely unused. It has not been used, due to the interpretation of the rules around the childcare services system. The government has launched a new action plan against coerciveness, and that action plan states that child protection does not provide an institution for people who have experienced forced marriage and who would like to have it through child protection. There are professionals who have called for knowledge in this area, an institution that can provide children with a special follow-up. So in Farsund, they've opened a center called Cocoon's Children's Protection and ethnicity Center. Many people want to use it, but they don't get to use it. Then the question is, What can be done to make it work? Today, an exception may be made in respect of the supply system, through direct acquisitions, under the law on public acquisitions § 2-1. Because they have an offer that no one else has, one can have an exception to the usual supply system. This has now been applied for to the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family. My question is, what will the Council of State do to help make this unique offer used and not abandoned?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e312	I cannot stand here and answer in detail the question that has now been asked about whether this institution should have any children. The cancellation representative made me aware of this matter. What's at the heart of the question, as I experience it, is, do we have good enough offers for children who experience pregnancy, sexual mutilation and trafficking in human beings? To that it's just to say that when we get different things, we make an assessment of whether institution placement is the right thing for these kids. I can unfortunately not say anything more about why this institution is not being used, and I am asking for understanding that I have to get back to it. I cannot handle individual matters here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e319	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I want to encourage the state council to go closer to this case, because there are 20 professionals waiting to receive children. There have been notices of permits. It's a unique and good offer, and we know there's a shortage of these in Norway. We know that there are many professionals who are calling for such an offer, and we know that adding people who are working to identify trafficking in human beings does not want to continue their work, because they do not have any treatment. There is a great demand, and in fact this is directly reflected in the action plans that the Government has when it comes to what treatment supply we need. Therefore, I would like to urge the Council of State to take a closer look at this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e326	I can assure the magnification representative that I will look at the matter, but I have to place it in the entirety of what we are working on, and assess what is the best offer for the children. This institution may not be the best offer for the children concerned. But once again, I see it in a whole context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e331	There will be three follow-up questions - first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e335	In the Progress Party, we are very happy that most children who need help from child protection actually get it at home. The Progress Party is also very pleased that fewer children come to institutions. This is one thing that we've been working for for for a lot of years, and it was very happy when this turn came. So don't get me wrong when I still ask the question. What's going on is that we've been running kids in Norway. We have children who, for different reasons, cannot live at home, perhaps especially the group between the ages of 15 and 18 who are very pervasive, and who may control their parents more than their parents control them. There are some private institutions that have just this competence for children in traffic and for children with degenerate behaviour, and I want to... [[The President announces to the Council of State Manuela Ramin-Osmundsen.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e342	In all the departments that are under my constitutional responsibility, I am particularly concerned that they should have knowledge of violence, and that they should have knowledge of new phenomena that we also encounter in Norway. Whether that's the institution you're talking about, which is the best place to give those offers, is once again a special question, but the overall competence of the system related to these problems is something that we build up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e347	Olemic Thommessen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e350	State councils say that she builds up an overall competence in the system. It should be interesting to know what it is that is the whole thing. Is the whole private sector also involved? The actor that the main question was about here is an example of one, where you have a sample of people who can actually do something special. They see a special need, and they use their time, effort, and enthusiasm to put their competences into life. Does the Council of State think that, within the framework of the state, it is also possible to achieve that kind of effect? Does the Council of State mean that the state has the competence to receive the children who become homeless when we get to summer? And what action will the Council of State take to drive that kind of development of knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e357	I have not said that we shall not use the competence of the particular institution. I've just said that I can't stand here in Stortinget and say that that institution is best suited to receive these children. There is no doubt that we in the Child Protection System need more expertise on new phenomena taking place in Norway. It is, I think, not just one particular institution that should possess that competence. The remainder is part of an overall assessment of both institutional and child use for the appropriate systems needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e364	Sigmund Kroslid - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e367	In St.meld. No 15 for 2004-2005 on competition policy, presented by the Government of Bondevik II, on the procurement and purchase of health and social services for NPISHs: ‘Non-commercial non-profit institutions serving households represent a valuable complement to the public service provision. The Government will facilitate their continued role as providers of health and care services. On this basis, the Government has waived the procurement rules for the purchase of health and social services from such organisations, so that States and municipalities can choose whether to compete in ordinary competition or to negotiate directly with non-profit institutions serving households.’;» My question is whether the Council of State agrees with the Christian People's Party that one should facilitate the use for such purposes of ideal child protection institutions such as the former mentioned Cocoon in the same way as other ideal establishments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e377	The line is clear: yes, we want to supplement the institutional use of public services with institutional use by non-profit institutions serving households. But then we have had a debate on the legal basis to choose which procedure we will eventually fall into. That's where we're going. I'm waiting for an investigation from the Department of Renewal and Administration, so we'll get back to it. The line is clear: we need a good system to ensure that NPISHs can run good institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e384	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e387	I would like to ask the Minister of Industry a question. We are now in front of the introduction of a new EU directive - if the Government does nothing - namely the Data Storage Directive. It has great privacy implications, but it also has some commercial implications, for it imposes enormous storage requirements on all telecommunications companies and all suppliers of other information technology. Long-term traffic data must be stored, which imposes high storage capacity requirements. The large requirements make it largely only those players who are currently in the market, who have enough resources to build up such a large storage capacity. This makes it very difficult for new players to enter the market if this Directive is implemented as regards the provision of information technology, data communications and telecommunications. It will be very difficult for all the new IT companies and entrepreneurs who want to enter this market to be able to do so when they are subject to such high storage capacity requirements. This is probably nice and great for the big companies that are lobbying for such directives in Brussels, but it will be very difficult to develop small companies and enter as new companies in this area. My question to the Minister of Industry is: What prospects does he see for the Data Storage Directive as compared to the fact that it will allow new IT and business start-ups to grow when these obligations are actually implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e396	When assessing that Directive, I will, of course, take care to safeguard the industrial policy interest in it. It is true that capacity is such a question. However, I would like to say that some data protection issues may have the same relevance as having a thorough and critical review before concluding on how to deal with the directive from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e402	I am very pleased that the Council of State is concerned with privacy. In the ownership message, which is supposed to express the ideological basis and not just ownership structures, the government has highlighted many important indicators for our society: the environment, which is a great and important concept to have included, is included 122 times. Security is listed 44 times. Social responsibility has been raised 40 times. Ethics is mentioned 15 times in the ownership message. Similarly, human rights are mentioned six times in the ownership message. However, privacy is not mentioned at any time in this ownership message. Is the Council of State concerned with privacy in relation to ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e407	Here I can show that I believe that in a previous oral question hour I actually discussed that very question with Skei Grande's party leader, who in a good way marked it as part of his commitment when he was in the department in which I am now. I think we then concluded that this is one of the areas where we have a common interest. Privacy is clearly one of the many elements included in our strict criteria for ethics, which - as the representative himself mentioned - is mentioned several times in the ownership message.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e412	There will be two follow-up questions - first Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e415	I am pleased that the Minister of Industry also sees the importance and challenges of privacy in this matter and the comprehensive legislation that the Directive now lays down. However, I also think it should be borne in mind that it is likely to incur large financial costs either for the individual company or for the customers, which are probably the ones to pay for this at the end of the day. So this is a public order coming from the EU, and as it may also look like this government is choosing to follow up. Then I think it is time to ask the Council of State whether he believes it is okay that this could have major consequences in the telecommunications sector in that competition can be much less than it is today, because the cost of a relatively small company is so large that it is not able to implement and follow up what the directive provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e422	I believe that I answered that question already in my first answer, in the answer to the main question, namely that when we are going to assess the implementation of the directive, I will, of course, ensure that the economic considerations, including the nature of the example mentioned here, are taken care of and become part of the overall assessment of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e427	Leif Helge Kongshaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e430	Left is pleased that the Council of State is concerned with the protection of privacy in the context of the Data Storage Directive. But there are several speakers here who have also raised the issue of competition. For small operators, this becomes a huge cost, and it is actually such that it can mean the hook at the door too many, because the costs are too high in relation to the size of the company. ICT Norway has estimated that the Directive will cost at least 300 million. kr annually. In turn, costs will probably be passed on to consumers, and then, in the paradoxical situation, users will end up paying for their own monitoring. Is the Council of State comfortable with such a situation, or does the Minister of Industry see other solutions to meet these costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e435	I understand that I have also answered that part of the question through my general answer, that all the industrial implications, including the distortions of competition and competition, for which the Ministry of Renewal has the formal responsibility, will be part of the assessment to be made in the implementation of the Directive. I've already said that, and I repeat that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e440	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e443	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. Recently, the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, together with the Minister for Renewal, presented the news that attempts should now be started to moderately quota immigrants in employment in the country. This is a two-year pilot project involving the employment of immigrants in twelve state establishments. The aim is to reduce unemployment among the immigrant population, which is a place between 50 and 80 pst. in individual groups. The test implies that if two applicants have similar qualifications, the migrant shall be preferred. In practice, this means that an immigrant is preferred to a better qualified Norwegian. Someone will probably be able to claim that we nordics are going to be second-class citizens in their own country. Among the establishments to introduce quotas are several departments, Directorates and supervision, as well as State Buildings, the Husbank, parts of the Defence and Police. There is reason to ask the question: when unemployment among the immigrant population is more than three times as high as that of the population, and the country is screaming for labour, could it be that social benefits and social security are too good? Shouldn't there be clear demands and attempts to change the attitude of any of these immigrant groups? I would like to ask the Council of State: is there not a reason to ask whether it is not now time to hit the table and say that something is wrong with the attitudes of some immigrants?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e450	I would say that something is wrong with the attitudes of some employers, who are unable to see the skills of some people with a minority background. The requirement for almost equal qualifications does not mean that a non-qualified immigrant will get a job, but it will mean - yes - that NAV, who serves an entire population, can assess it so that the language skills of an immigrant are what you actually need, rather than speaking Norwegian so well that you always speak correctly. This is a very important measure. Year after year we have been shown that there is something wrong with the attitudes of some employers, and then they need a mild pressure to correct that injustice.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e456	The Progress Party believes that an individual who has received a job or a position because of his gender, and not just because of his qualifications, is downgraded by both society and himself. So you don't have to give jobs because of sex or skin color - this in addition to prefering immigrants over the North can actually be racism. Does the Council of State fear that she is now doing a service to immigrants with such a policy? Does the Council of State not think that this can help create both conflict and racism in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e461	Seeing and emphasising the competences of both women and some immigrants does not mean that they have no other competence, but that means that that competence has to be assessed as valuable. There is an ideological distinction between at least our two parties on this issue and the possibility of specializing in some groups that have been demonstrated in another position, that is. a lower position, in a number of areas of society, is actually in our human rights instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e466	There will be three follow-up questions--first Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e469	Right-wing believes that language skills and work are the keys to success in society, and I think the Council of State starts off wrong by using quotas. In immigrant settings, stigmatisation is feared, and in addition, there is a significant shortage of labour today. In the opinion of the Right, it is a major problem to get immigrant women out of home and into work, and therefore the Right has proposed to give free kindergarten to the families where both are on the introduction programme or in education. We have now proposed this in the 2008 budget. The government said no, that said the bulk of the population didn't. So what measures, other than quotas, can the Council of State plan to take to get immigrant women into the labour market in particular?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e474	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has a lot of responsibility for integrating people with a minority background into work, and there are a number of measures that he can explain. I would very much like to stress that helping women with low qualifications out of the home and into the workplace must not mean that women who are competent and who carry, for example. Skaut, is excluded from positions that they had actually been very well served to get. There are two different debates, and we start at the right end.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e481	Bjørg Tørersdal - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e484	The Christian People's Party is committed to achieving a good integration policy, and it is necessary to address the unemployment situation of the immigrant population. The Christian People's Party welcomes the attempts at quotas, and hopes and believes that there can be a good measure in terms of skilled labour. So they're going to have to have the skills, but they're going to have to be preferred. We think it'll work. The challenge is that there is a very cautious system of allowances that you have set up. We think it is necessary to take more and more extensive action to reduce unemployment and thus improve integration for the immigrant population. My question to the Council of State will be: Will the Council of State, in cooperation with the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, take more extensive action, both in terms of quotas and wage subsidies, in order to reduce unemployment rapidly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e491	I am very pleased to hear that the Christian People's Party is too moderate the quota of persons with a minority background with competence. As for taking more extensive action, I can say that we are very concerned about it. The details of what to do to lift people with a minority background out of unemployment are a big question, which I will leave to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen to answer, and he is not here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e496	Per-Willy Amundsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e499	I would like to challenge the Council of State to come up with some limitations in relation to which immigrants it is to be quotad. It is a fact that labour participation among immigrants is very complex. Some groups have relatively high participation rates, while others have very poor participation in the Norwegian community. We also know that there may be considerable differences between countries of origin that are close to each other, for example. Pakistan and India. There are very big differences. Representatives from the Government have said in the past that quotas for Swedes are not relevant, and quotas for Europeans are not relevant. Then I have to ask the question: who really is to be quotad? What should be the criteria for which immigrants are to be admitted to these jobs? Is it really the case that a quota should be allocated according to skin colour? In that case, this starts to look like a system that we don't like to identify with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e506	The criteria are very clear. There are persons from non-Western countries according to SSB statistics. Something about skin color has never been discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e512	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e515	Two out of three employees in Norway work in family and private businesses. Many are corner stone companies that help to strengthen travel life out in District Norway, where they act as carriers for value creation and well-being. We're now looking...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e520	The representative is asked to clarify which state council the issue is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e523	Sorry, the question is for the Minister of Industry. We now see that the government's lack of industrial policy and the pursuit of the so-called rich affects precisely these corner stone companies. The inheritance tax paid to the State is money that could have been used to strengthen, secure and further develop businesses and jobs. At the same time, we see that the Government in all its budget proposals proposes an increase in the wealth tax. This occurs in parallel with increased interest rates, strong dollar rates and labour shortages, which drive wages up. The most active red-green industry policy to date seems to have been increasing taxes on work, savings and private ownership. On the right, there is a need to stimulate initial investment which could increase the competitiveness of travel and family-run businesses. The inheritance tax for a generation change should be subject to a conditional tax exemption for gifts and heritage of business. In the government, the Right introduced a provision on interest-free repayment arrangements, and we proposed that it be extended to full exemption under certain conditions. Does the Council of State see the need to take similar steps as the Right here has outlined?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e530	I have to be allowed to ask myself something strange about the misery description that the representative here expresses. The reality is that there have never been as many new establishments in Norway as it was in 2007. The final figure is probably not clear, but it was due to approx. 51000 new enterprises from the third quarter of 2006 to 2007. It shows the opposite of what the representative suggests, that there is a difficult climate of establishment in Norway. It shows that there is a strong willingness to establish itself in Norway, and that there are many who do so. In addition, when employment increases by approx. 80,000 in the same year, it's a signal of successful results from the government's policy and -- let me underline it -- of course of the economic cycle that we've seen internationally. There can be absolutely no result to the black paint expressed by the representative. As for the inheritance fee, what we've said about it in the Soria Moria statement is that we're going to make it easier to pay by paying it over seven years. There it is that the government has done exactly what the government has said it should do. In the case of taxes on wealth, representatives forget - possibly by chance - to draw attention to the fact that, in the context of the changes in the taxes on wealth made in the year's budget at last autumn's reading, we are increasing significantly the deduction from inheritance tax. We are engaged in small and medium-sized enterprises. Individuals who own small and medium-sized enterprises enjoy more of the increase in the bottom line than large enterprises do. Finally, let me say that at the same time, we have an eye to the fact that it's always a cooperative between big businesses and small businesses, and that it's part of the basis of our business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e543	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We know that businesses in general, family-run enterprises and tourism industries are particularly struggling with ever-increasing restrictions, environmental taxes and other burdens. Right proposes to increase depreciation rates for machines with a proven environmental impact by 5 pst, up to 25 pst. It is, as I said, important to stimulate initial investment that can increase competitiveness, so that good times can last as long as possible, and to ensure both jobs locally and not least the environment. Does the Council see the need for such an increase, and in that case will he be in favour of an environmentally friendly solution, as proposed by the Right here?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e554	To take the journey life first, which the representative is concerned about - I know specifically that she among other things. are engaged in travel life in Geiranger, but also in travel life in general -- I am pleased with the reception given to the Government's travel life strategy, precisely based on the fact that there are concrete measures, and that it has been in close cooperation with the industry. Then I, and the Government, are concerned with equal conditions of competition. This will include, inter alia: in line with the proposal we have put forward on future shipping taxes, which I also know the representative is concerned about, in which we give the Norwegian industries the same competitive potential as the rest of Europe. I think that's understanding that I can't stand here and say that we're going to be in favour of increased depreciation rates, once we've just adopted a government budget that is in line with the Government's proposal. But in general, I can say that on the issues of industrial policy, I am caring for the interests of industry, and I am happy to see that the proposals that the Government has now submitted have been well received.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e563	There will be three follow-up questions - first Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e566	The Council of State indicated in its response to the travel strategy presented by the Government and that it has been widely welcomed. I have also registered that there are many who are critical of it. I am critical, for my part, that the tourism strategy is not being presented to the Stortinget for treatment, because the tourism industry is an industry that has tough international competition. Much of what characterises the tourism industry is that there are many small and innovative players who are also struggling with poor profitability. Does the Council of State, in this context, see the need to strengthen the profitability of the tourism industry in the form of lower taxes and taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e573	First, to the reception of the travel strategy. I can recall on the go a very critical look in relation to our submitted travel strategy in the amount of many positive receptions. That was a post from the representative of Korsberg. With regard to the tourism strategy presented, all concrete budgetary measures are discussed in the context of the State budget. In the same way as the maritime strategy, which was presented just before the state budget, all the instruments are mentioned there, and therefore there is a good basis for discussing them. What is important is more to coordinate the tourism strategy, both in industry, the many parts of industry, and in cooperation between industry and the public. In this respect, I believe that the good result we have, among other things: looking through the work that Innovation Norway is doing will be even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e582	Ingredient S. Sørfonn - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e586	Whether you like it or not, actual taxes and taxes mean a lot to business, and not least this taxes on wealth. In the context of the tax reform in the previous period, a social contract between business and authorities was in reality concluded. The business community accepted the imposition of dividend taxes against a significant reduction in and the long-term liquidation of the property tax. This social contract is not met. Dividend taxes have been introduced, but there are no major changes in property taxes. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs see this as creating a problem, even though this social contract was concluded during the previous enlargement period? And does the Minister of Industry see that a good solution to this will be to apply exemptions from property taxes to what is called working capital? I am absolutely sure that business would be happy with it. It would have been an incentive, and it would also have fulfilled a social contract that would give a whole different trust between business and authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e595	I am familiar with and appreciate the commitment of the representative Sørfonn to the business community, not least the small and medium-sized enterprises, which we have discussed in the past. The taxes on wealth are one of the themes in this respect. What I have to protest about, however, is the representative's wording that a social contract has been concluded. As a current member and active in the Financial Committee, the representative is aware that there was a majority and a minority in that case. It's like the parties that are now in government have said clear things about taxes before the elections, and we've lived up to it after the elections. In terms of taxes on wealth, there has been some redistribution, by the fact that we have increased the bottom line somewhat, and I think that the representative really seems to be a right direction to go in, although he probably doesn't think that's enough. But when it comes to the issue of taxes on wealth, at least no one can claim that we have promised something that we have not kept. We have kept exactly what we have promised, and I record that the representative Sørfonn is not satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e604	Leif Helge Kongshaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e607	The left considers that the Government, through various changes to the tax system, has made it less profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs and Norwegian enterprises. This also applies to travel businesses, which have been the topic today. Instead, it has become much more profitable to invest in property or move capital out of the country. The New Year's request from the trade union leader, Jan Davidsen, was a higher tax and changed tax model by removing the protective deduction, introducing taxes on share purchases and capping interest deductions. We all understand that this will have negative consequences for Norwegian companies. The experience with the sitting government is that when the trade union movement says hope, the government jumps. What does the Council of State think about the thoughts of Jan Davidsen? Are they good for Norwegian business? And is the government in the process of a new hope?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e616	It is true that many people are engaged in the tax debate in Norway. That's good. But what the government thinks about this question is what we've said in the Soria Moria Declaration, which we've followed up every day after the Soria Moria Declaration, and which we're going to follow up as long as this government sits -- that's true of the promises given in this period. It's not that if one person says that one could increase taxes that way, it's an expression of the Government's view. I can assure the representative Kongshaug that when Victor Norman has also been out suggesting that there should be a tax increase, it is not that it will lead to the government jumping. The government has said what we should do in terms of fiscal policy during this government period. That's exactly what we're going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e623	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e628	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 2 from the representatives Hans Olav Syversen and Svein Flätt to the Minister for Finance, respectively, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative Bjørg Tørresdal to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State to answer question 22, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e644	From the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister for Finance: ‘A common structure among persons with very high incomes is so-called ‘internal companies’. E.g. The 18 participants in the internal company in Terra Securities received 288.2 Mio. in 2005 and 2006, corresponding to a return of 1149 per cent. It seems obvious that this has been designed to reduce tax requirements. Does the Council of State believe that this, and many other similar cases, provides a basis for assessing whether the law continues to provide revenue peaks with unreasonable opportunities to achieve low taxes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e655	From the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Finance: ‘Skärvøy Municipality, by decision of the local government on 10 May 2007, has, inter alia: determined that the properties owned by two named limited liability companies which are used for residential purposes shall be exempt from property taxes. One company is owned by private companies with the municipality as a minority shareholder. The second is the whole time of the municipality. Does the Council of State consider such exemptions and discrimination on the part of owners to be in accordance with the exemption provisions of the Property Tax Act § 7?»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e666	From the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘Hafslund shall build pellet mills on Averøy and, in this context, have the possibility to build a plant capable of providing back-up power to a region where power supplies may be critical for periods of time. Power generation based on pellets will be an alternative to highly polluting power generation from mobile gas plants purchased. How can the Council of State contribute to the use of back-up power from pellets instead of from mobile gas plants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e674	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e681	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘Defense Chief Sverre Dien has regretted that Norwegian soldiers are unable to march properly, and will now leave the exersis to the War School, H M Kongens Garde and Telemark Battalion parade department. Is the Council of State concerned that the level of terminated order is too low and is she critical of the lack of competence of the command in this field?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e690	The end of order - marching and weaponxersis - is part of the basic skills we want our soldiers - crews and command - to possess. It is important for the identity and the Community feeling of each department and for a professional attitude towards the service. Moreover, the order has ceased with the reputation of the Defense to do--the manner in which the Defense acts in the public space. That's why it's taught in the final order at our recruiting schools. It is, however, that many and new demands are made on our soldiers. The formation of the individual and the preparation of international operations are among those parts of the training which require more time. In other words, the competition for the content of the term has become harder. It is therefore necessary to give careful priority to the content of soldier training. It can not be expected that all departments will have the standard necessary for parading on Karl Johan. Such special assignments require training and drills far beyond the training of the individual at the recruitment schools. In other words, parading involves specializing in the military craft. I therefore agree with the Defence Manager that such specialisation should be concentrated on certain departments. Priority should be given to departments which have the necessary and special prerequisites, competences and not least roles. By the fact that the war schools are among the departments given priority to such missions, we will ensure that the officer corps hold and maintain future development of competence in this area. The Chief of Defence has addressed this issue. I have full confidence that military departments in the future will appear as professionals in their craftsmanship. Soldiers today have sufficient basic skills in order. In the case of parades, the departments designated by the head of defence shall have the necessary professionalism and dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e706	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I did not think was a good thing. That was to the extent of an answer, but I'm sad because of the content of it, and I don't agree. In my time in Defense, the order had ended an important part--there aren't many years back. That's when the council said it gave an identity to that troop and the battalion you belonged to. It had to do with the reputation of the troops, it had to do with the weaponxersis, and it had to do with pride, this being able to march. I doubt that there is no room for soldiers to learn how to march. I remember that it was a big pole when we were allowed to get here at the Storting's opening and marching in the streets here. We trained a lot on this. We trained in working hours, and we did not least exercise in leisure time. And there was a reason we were training in our spare time -- we felt a pride and a closeness to the troops we belonged to. I'm afraid we're losing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e713	As I also said in my post, it's so that the end of order -- marching and armistice -- is part of the basic skills we want all of our soldiers -- crews and command -- to hold. I fully agree that this is an important part of the identity and Community feeling of the departments. At the same time, it's like this is a profession in itself, and when the head of defense chooses to train some departments in this area -- those that have an important role in that context -- I trust that the professional part of it is best cared for that way, while this is a basic skill that everyone should have to have at a certain level.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e720	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for the concreteness, that this should be part of the basic skills. Then I believe that the basic skills – i.e. training in marching, closing the order, weaponsexersis – should be so good that you can march anywhere within the country's borders, and even when you're in foreign service. So based on what the defense chief said, and what the defence minister now says, I think this is a weakening of the defense we have-- unfortunately. It's part of the big thing, and I think it's very bad that soldiers don't have enough skills, in this case in the final order, so they can come and march anywhere. Doesn't the Council of State think so?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e725	With all due respect, I have to say that this is an area in which I trust the head of defence's assessment, also the head of defence's assessment of the complexity required in the training of our soldiers and our command. It is also such that it has expanded – the requirement for training has increased. The training requirement has increased in several areas in recent years, and the time to meet this has not improved. That's why I trust that those who have a special role will receive special training, but that this -- as I've said two times before -- is a basic skill that everyone is also going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e733	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The Government has presented its strategy for the tourism industry in the document ‘Valid experiences’. The government here presents different areas of action to make Norway more attractive as a tourist country, including marketing. Has the strategy considered the launch of a dedicated satellite channel that will only operate with the marketing of Norway as a tourist destination to our nearest consumer markets?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e742	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e747	There was no very uplifting answer. There are already three-four channels in Europe that do this. I've actually managed to get one of them on my own satellite TV. What goes on those channels are programs without program managers, and there's no hostesses. So there's obviously low compensation of employees, but of course there can be some production costs. I wish that the government in the work had assessed this, because there is already a good deal of substance that is developed by municipalities, county municipalities, travel destinations, etc. as could be shown on such a channel in order to promote Norway as a tourist destination. The Council of State itself stated in the document ‘Valueful experiences’ that we are too little known abroad in relation to all the good response that some of our tourist destinations get. We've gotten pretty high on some crews. So I wish the government had assessed it. But to ask, has there been any input from the players in the business community about the desire for such a channel?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e756	The same question that we are discussing now has been answered by former State Council Odd Eriksen on the basis of questions in 2006. There are a number of channels, as the representative himself said, that have travel life as one of his main areas. Innovation Norway, which accounts for the professional part of the marketing of Norway abroad, and we consider that it is much more attractive to get through the surfaces that people use than possibly to use a lot of resources to establish a channel that would be difficult to get into different cable companies, etc. Around the world. Therefore, there has been no part of the assessment of the options in the last round. Innovation Norway has also not considered this as an alternative. It's better to get through the channels that the audience uses. I have met an incredible number of people in the travel industry in connection with the design of the travel strategy, nor have any of them wanted it to be the chosen form of communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e763	Now it is not that this representative is bombastic that this is the right thing to do. I know that it works via many different channels to market Norway. But I want to focus on that when we had a Document No. 8 proposals from the Progress Party on the preparation of a travel life message for discussion in Stortinget, we were informed by the representatives of the position, the majority of the committee - and I can refer to the comments in the vote - that they did not find it advisable to support Document No. The 8-proposal from the Progress Party, because the government was working on something that would be presented to the Stortinget. The Council of State also wrote in a letter to the Committee at that time: ‘I am aiming for the Stortinge to have the opportunity to discuss the matter and to come back with proposals to this effect’. My question to the Council of State will therefore be: Does the Council of State intend to present to the Stortinget a document on travel life that the Stortinget can help to deal with? And when can we possibly expect to get a case about travel life for treatment in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e770	This has recently been the case with the Stortinget in connection with the treatment of the State budget. The measures mentioned in the tourism strategy are all mentioned in the State budget. It will also be the case that, in the annual budgets and in the type of general general documents, we have the opportunity to discuss the individual measures, and the many measures that are part of the travel strategy. But those who are in the strategy as it was presented just before Christmas are point-by-point elements that were the basis for discussion in the context of the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e778	I hope for clear answers from the Council of State. ‘Refers to written question No. 1046 dated 15 June 2006 and replies from the Council of State on 22 June 2006. In the answer, the Council of State writes among others: ‘I do, however, expect Cermaq to treat individual accidents with the greatest seriousness and that the company has internal guidelines to ensure that investigations are carried out where justified. I will follow this up in dialogue with the company." How has the Council of State followed this up with Cermaq?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e787	The answer from my predecessor was given on the basis of a question from the representative of Korsberg about the safety situation in Norwegian breeding companies in Chile. The representative then also asked questions as to whether the Council of State would impose internal investigations in the event of an accident within this industry. In connection with this case, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade received a statement from Cermaq. It was found that the authorities in Chile have made an accident report, and there was no searchlight on Cermaq in that context. As with other companies in which the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade manages the ownership of the State, the Ministry has regular contact meetings with the company to discuss financial results and the development of operations. The situation in Chile has been addressed in several of these meetings. As of January 2007, there has been a change in the legislation in Chile regarding the use of subcontractors. Under the new legislation, companies are responsible for following the HMS rules when using subcontractors, for example, associated with more specialised diving operations. Furthermore, companies are now required to employ their own staff for diving missions down to 20 metres. The new legislation intends to reduce the number of accidents in industry. Cermaq has assured me, as late as one meeting last Wednesday, that they are complying with the new legal rules. It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to ensure that the companies have sufficient good practices to ensure all aspects of the management of a company, including the HMS. Cermaq has procedures for reporting major accidents and deaths. The procedures shall ensure that the group management is provided with the information necessary for the management of such cases, where appropriate, decide on a review. The ownership message shows, among other things: that the Government expects the companies in which the country is owned to be the foremost in terms of HMS work. This message was conveyed directly by me to the directors in a separate meeting in connection with the launch of the ownership message. We also sent the last summer document «Government's ownership policy» to the companies. That's where these expectations are taken in. We have pointed out the expectations of the ordinary follow-up meetings with the companies. I have assured myself that the management of Cermaq is well aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e802	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As you know, a LO fisheries committee has been in Chile and has looked at the situation. What they have discovered shows that the standards of health, environment and safety are not the same in Norway. Now I am not so concerned that Cermaq will have special provisions in Chile. What I'm more concerned about is that the farming industry in Chile is getting legislation that is more similar to the Norwegian legislation, just to prevent distortions of competition - but the most important thing is to ensure the safety of those who work in the farming industry in Chile. Now I know that the Council of State is going to visit Chile. Will the State Council address this with the Chilean authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e811	Firstly, I am busy talking to the Norwegian companies that are active in Chile about this issue. I am pleased that the report referred to shows that in terms of health, environment and safety, and insofar as pay and employment conditions are also concerned, the Norwegian-owned companies in Chile are leading. We should be happy about that, not least the expectation of companies in which the state owns it. Then aquaculture - in addition to energy and other important issues of cooperation - will be the topic of the meetings we are going to have at political level in Chile, naturally enough, because it is an area where Norway and Chile have a great deal of community. I'm not going to go to Chile and give the impression that I don't think they have a regulated labour market. I mentioned in my main response one example of a health, environmental and safety legislation that has actually been tightened up and improved, and which I believe we agree that it is a matter of course that Norwegian companies should comply - and preferably they should be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e816	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We're probably in complete agreement that security is ahead of everything, and that there should be an equal international standard in terms of security. However, one of my concerns about the report presented by LO is the use of antibiotics in Chile, which is 842 times higher than the use of antibiotics in Norway in farmed salmon. Some of the actors are calling for, and I am also concerned about, simply that this can contribute to weakening the reputation of the farming industry internationally. Because if you remember, it was a big problem in Norway a few years ago, and the industry had a bad reputation. Will the Council of State propose to the Chilean authorities that they amend the legislation so as to reduce the use of antibiotics in Chile, thereby avoiding the international impact of a whole industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e825	I think it might be a little bit precise that I'm going to propose what the Chilean authorities are going to adopt. As regards the health situation, it is known that there have been examples of ILA in Chile. And of course, when the marine sector is part of the themes, this part of the issues will also be discussed in the meetings we have over there -- it could be one of the positive elements by Norwegian owners with Norwegian experience actually getting involved in the farming sector in Chile. It is a well-known fact that in Norway, together with the research communities, breeding companies have a clear 97 pst reduction in antibiotic use. in a few years. That exchange of experience will, of course, be important for the further development of Chile, not least in the companies in which we have Norwegian owners, with the knowledge they take with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e832	The biggest problem is that the Minister for Transport, who will answer the next question, from the representative Arne Sortevik, is not present. The President is somewhat uncertain as to whether there are some transport or traffic problems between the government quarter and the landfill, or whether there are some communication problems between the Stortinget and the Government. The President has been given clear assurance that the state councils have been informed of the changes that are taking place in the Storting's Question Time, so that the councils should be aware that they are likely to be here somewhat earlier. The President can see that we have no other option than to wait, because we have been told that the Council of State is on its way to the collapse building. As the next Council of State to answer questions is not present, and as a representative to ask the next Council of State, we are faced with two possibilities: either to cancel the meeting or to wait until the Minister of Transport is in place. The President will propose that we follow the last method - and wait until the Council of State is in place. No objections have been raised against the president's proposal. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e843	It is reasonable that the Government is represented, in case there should be further comments about the Government's presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e848	The President appreciates the representation of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e859	The President would like to welcome the Council of State to the Great Hall and express her understanding that she may have difficulties in seeing things go faster than planned - since the President is from Westfold. We will then continue the examination of case No. 1 on today's map -- the regular questioning process where we've come to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e867	‘The Council of State replied in the Questionnaire on 9 January 2008 that the basic material of the subject matter for the new NTP 2010-2019 is within an estimation technical framework of 10 times the 2007 budget proposal. In a 30-year perspective, the Stock Road Survey and the calculation for other national roads indicate a need for investment of nearly 500 billion. kr. The 10-year share of the 30-year perspective provides a wide gap between the professional recommendation of a trade union in terms of road investment and the calculation technical framework. How does the Council of State think the gap should be covered?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e874	I am very sorry that the Storting had to wait for me. I was informed that I would meet at 0 p.m. 11.45, and I didn't know that there were any changes. I'm sorry about that. In reply I gave the representative Sortevik in question on 9 January, I took care of the status of the core network distributions, which have been published for the first time. Such distributions are important for the direction of long-term planning and are at the same time part of the basis for the next NTP. I would like to stress that the distributions show a long-term need, but that no concrete economic priorities have been made within an economic framework. In the Stamnet distribution of the State Road Service, there is a need of at least NOK 230 billion. The potential for tolls is estimated to be $80 billion. that, if all needs are to be met during the 30-year period, the State investment on the tribal roads must be DKK 5 billion per year. Varieties are concerned with the coverage of the gap ‘between professional recommendation from the profession in the case of road investment and the calculation technical framework’. What kind of a gap we're talking about, it's too early to tell us. I will be handed over the plan proposal from the budgets and from Avinor tomorrow, January 17. The proposal for priorities from the etats and analyses carried out in the planning process will be accompanied by a statement from among others. major cities and county municipalities form the basis for the political priorities to be made in the Government - and later in the Grand Duchy. This applies both to the level and alignment of resource efforts over the years to come. In other words, it's not mine, but the trade unions and Avinor's priorities that are being published tomorrow. The NTP 2010-2019 frame and its disposal are first identified in the Storing Message. What I can say now is that I am busy that the transport sector is being allocated resources that allow a safe and efficient closure of traffic with the least possible disadvantage for the environment. Improvements in infrastructure will include: be important to reduce the competitive disadvantages of businesses with large transport distances to the markets. The level of investment in the transport sector must be balanced against other needs in the sector and other needs in the rest of society. This is precisely what we are going to do in the national transport plan. At the same time, realistic frameworks are important. Realistic frameworks must be vanquished for business and people for their adaptation. Follow-up to NTP takes place through the annual budgets. Through its management, the final framework for the transport sector will be established. There are many and important needs to be balanced towards each other. I look forward to a constructive change of words with Mr Sortevik and others on how to facilitate, through the national transport plan and later budgetary follow-up, a better transport sector in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e889	Thanks for the answer. I feel that we have come a little further than a week ago, when we now get a clarification that there is actually professional advice from the trade union -- and I keep going in this round. There is a long-term perspective from the responsible professional authority, which points out that expanding or improving to standard road standards will cost not only NOK 230 billion for the main road network, but a corresponding amount for the national road network - from a 30-year perspective, i.e. NOK 500 billion. Anyone who can do a simple sharing operation realizes that we're talking about 160-1970 billion dollars in a decade's perspective. A week ago, the Council of State said in its answer to questions about this that the framework laid down is the 2007 budget level plus/minus 20 pst. So it's going to be between 60 and 70 billion dollars. There's the gap.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e896	Yeah, that's perfectly clear. In the core network services, where one has created a free distribution without the mathematical frameworks as a set of national transport plans, there is a need to have an adequate standard at all levels up to 2040, i.e. within a 30-year perspective. I underlined this also in my answer last week. Unlike previous government councils, I've made the core network deals public, just to be able to create a debate in society about where we're going in 30 years, what we're going to be about, and what level of ambition you're going to have. National transport plan follows what the Government, both in this round and in the past, has laid as a framework, namely that it is the last year, the known budget, that underlies a projection - plus/minus 20 pst. Then we'll discuss further what will become the final frames.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e903	It is very good that the long-term prospects of the trade unions have been made publicly available. But it's also clear that they're professionally thought out -- they're professionally thought about what it takes to get a full build-up to road standard over a thirty-year period. It's a gap, and the question that now comes up in advance of the presentation of the proposal that comes tomorrow is how to cover the gap -- whether we're going to get full expansion over the last 20 of the next 30 years, whether we're going to get less expansion than what's professionally needed to get a satisfactory road standard, whether we're going to get more tolls to get to this, whether we're going to get more restrictions, whether it's going to be more expensive to use a car, or whether there's going to be a reduced opportunity to use a car.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e908	I believe that the issues raised by the representative Sortevik are precisely the kind of problem options that we are going to discuss in the coming year. First, the drafts that now come from the etats should be heard in counties and big cities. We're going to meet them, and I'm going to assume that we also get a debate in the public space-- I hope so. Then the Government shall have its management and the Storting shall receive a document from the Government to be debated in this Chamber. It is precisely the kind of question that Sortevik is raising, which is now being debated. I look forward to having a good debate, both in the formal forums and in the public space, on the level of ambition that one will have for transportation in this country in the next decade.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e916	My question to the Council of State is as follows: ‘The continental finance municipalities have applied to the Ministry of Transport for the necessary improvement of the Freifjord tunnel to be carried out by the Ministry of Transport. For nine years salt water has been clean in, stone, luminaires and now a fan has recently fallen down. At the same time, traffic growth has been high, and many road users experience insecurity when running through the tunnel. When will the necessary restoration of the Freifjord tunnel be able to begin, and will the Council of State take action to ensure the start of recovery?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e925	As I answered in Question Time on Wednesday 21 November 2007 to the question from the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug, it is a priority task to start rehabilitating the Freifjord tunnel. The decisive reason why work has not yet started is the lack of clarification from the Labour Inspectorate on a work plan that ensures a satisfactory working environment for those who are to carry out the rehabilitation work. The State Road Service has submitted a work plan to enable the rehabilitation of the Freifjord Tunnel to be carried out in parallel with the closure of the traffic. In a letter dated 14 December 2007, the Labour Inspectorate decided that they would not permit work in the Freifjord Tunnel combined with the closure of traffic. On a principle basis, the Swedish Road Administration will appeal against the Labour Inspectorate's decision. The rehabilitation of the Freifjord tunnel is funded by means of the central tunnel protection programme. It may be possible to start the project with accelerated funds in 2008 against later government reimbursement, if it is allowed to start work. The State Road Service will assess this possibility as soon as there is a clarification in relation to the Labour Inspectorate and a new estimate of the cost of the Freifjord Tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e932	I thank the Council of State for the answer and ask the following follow-up questions: When the Hanekeliv tunnel needed to be repaired, the work was started immediately - and without demand for toll payment from the road users. In the Freifjord tunnel, road users have to pay tolls, and nine years have passed without the necessary remedial action being taken. Does the Council of State see that this can be seen as an unfair discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e939	It is important to bear in mind that the reason why the Freifjord tunnel has not been rehabilitated is not about economics today. It is about the fact that the Labour Inspectorate has taken a decision that denies the State Road Administration to do work while the tunnel is running. In Westfold, a tunnel could be shut down and have simple bypasses - quite burdensome for the community - but it is still a much more demanding task to find such solutions in the Freifjord tunnel. There is also a fundamental question as to whether there should be a ban on traffic in tunnels while one has rehabilitation. Most of the tunnels that have been undergoing rehabilitation have been rehabilitated while traffic has been closed in safe forms. The fact that one of these has made such a decision in the Labour Inspectorate is therefore necessary to clarify more clearly. That's why the state road authority is anchoring, because it's also a case of principle, which applies to the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e946	I conclude with the following additional questions to the Council of State: There is an application from mainland Finance to extend the period of toll collection at the Freifjord Tunnel. Will the Ministry of Transport respond yes or no to the application that has now been made for a very long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e951	I can neither answer yes nor no here. It's one thing that goes as usual - through the Directorate of Road to the Department. Once the matter has been resolved, we will of course forward it. Then the answer to that also has to come. Only one additional information in relation to my previous answer: it is also clear that the decision taken by the Labour Inspectorate is very much costing both Ålesundstunnelen and Freifjordtunnelen. It is so important to look at this – and I may have to do so in cooperation with State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – the Labour Inspectorate's Code and how they enforce it. This also has an economic side, which can in the long run be important in relation to the closure of rehabilitation work in tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e958	Question 9 will be answered at the end of the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e964	‘The ‘Capital project’ shall propose a forward-looking division of tasks, land needs and capacity in the hospitals in the Oslo area. Health South-East now covers over 50 pst. on the basis of the country’s patient base, but what is the reason why only the planned hospitals in Buskerud and Eastfold now need to be adapted and/or further reduced in relation to the mentioned overcapacity in the Oslo area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e971	The representative of Giltun provides a comprehensive description of a central element of the capital process: working on forward-looking task-sharing, land needs and capacity of hospitals in the Oslo area. But the framework in which the case is put in is not right - that it is the hospitals in Buskerud and Eastfold that need to be adapted and/or further reduced in relation to the mentioned overcapacity in the Oslo area. One important reason why the Government decided to merge the two regional health companies was that the new Health South-East would use the overall responsibility and management position to coordinate resource use in the capital area better than has been the case up to now. It was a prerequisite for better resource use to be a good thing for all parties, i.e. for the patients in the metropolitan area, but also for the patients in the region – and I would also say in the country too. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has given the follow-up responsibility to Health South-East, which is in the process of this follow-up. At the same time, it is imperative that this work cannot be isolated from the planning of the other healthcare provision to the population of the region and to the rest of the country. Health South-East is responsible, on the basis of its responsibility, for planning for the whole region in a holistic way - that is. that offers and investments in different areas have to be assessed in relation to each other. I'm glad that the board of Health South-East is now working from this perspective. The Management Board adopted the process of investment projects in Buskerud and Østfold just before Christmas. The unanimous decision of the Management Board states that capacity, areas of uptake and structure/dissemination of tasks in the region as a whole need to be assessed. It is also said that the capital process is a central element of this assessment. This process, which is currently taking place in the capital and in the rest of the region, shall include, inter alia: ensure continued decentralised provision of specialist health services and ensure plans for new hospitals in Buskerud and Østfold. The decision also indicates that the other projects planned must be seen as part of this whole. If we are to succeed in the development of the specialist health service in the future, we need to put great emphasis on overall planning -- and, I say, greater emphasis, in the future. It is therefore a clear expectation and a governance requirement that the planning of investments in Health South-East should take place in a comprehensive perspective. It is also essential to meet the overall objectives of health policy on equal access to healthcare for the whole population.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e982	I would like to thank the Council of States so much for a clarifying answer. I myself was present at the board meeting before Christmas and understood it quite clearly that it was only the two hospitals mentioned that were to be included in the capital project that it is now working on. But in relation to the Kalnes hospital, which many are now concerned about being reduced, I would like to inform you that since the model choice in 1999, Kalnes has already been reduced four times - from 1,066 beds to 674 beds. That's about what the hospital has today. We also see a population increase from 265,000 to 290,000, so the Kalnes project should actually be increased by another 100 beds. When one also sees that the government is phased out privately, I could imagine hearing the Council of State assess whether it would not make sense to build Kalnes as it is today, without further postponement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e989	The process that the Health South-East Governing Board has now initiated following a mandate from the Government will, in the first place, run until October of this year. There will be broad processes in the planning and decisions that are likely to be taken gradually. What should not be questioned is that there is going to be a new hospital in Eastfold - and in Buskerud, for that matter. Health South-East is now engaged in a process, with which the representative is well-known, in relation to overall planning. What's important for me to emphasize again is that when the government decided to merge the two regions of Health South-East, it was in order for us to offer a better offer to the people of this area, but not least to the region otherwise-- I would also say to the country otherwise. This is why the overall approach here is important, and it is of course important that everything is seen as a whole even when investment plans are to be made in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e994	I thank you for your response. It actually made me a little more concerned, because now, like many others, I fear that the needs of the Easternfold population for health care may be sacrificed in relation to the overall assessment. This is 300,000 people. At the same time, when the Council of State says that there should be decentralised specialist services, it should mean that capacity should be increased in Eastfold, not shrink it. The current project does not have more capacity than what meets today's needs, and I think it sounds a little strange to use the overcapacity in the Oslo area by looking at the Østfold project. What we fear then is that one will see if it is possible to reduce and not increase, as the need really suggests. What does the Council of State think of that? Could there be a need to increase the number of places in Eastfold instead of shrinking it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1001	I am asking for an understanding that I cannot answer in detail the question of sizes and number of places. It is now in the first place the board of Health South-East that is responsible for thinking something about. I would also like to ask you to have some ice in your stomach in relation to the fact that it's now a process - and it's going to be a broad process. What is the clear governance message from the Government is that there will be a new hospital in Eastfold. Then you have to have time to look at it in the context of the capital area and the rest of the region. What is crucial is that the population in Eastfold or in Buskerud, or where you talk about, should have good health care and that it should be equivalent to healthcare. It is from the point of view of quality, the specialists, but also of the buildings to be built hereafter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1009	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘More than one person and several people are opting out of Down syndrome fetuses. When a family faces such a choice, it often has to be done quickly and without particular knowledge of what awaits them if they choose to keep the child. Parents often receive little information despite the requirements of the authorities for such information to be provided. What will the Council of State do to ensure that parents in such a situation acquire real knowledge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1018	Like the representative Laila Davøy, I'm concerned that women -- and families -- are going to get good information about what it means to have a child with Down's syndrome or other disabilities in the family. As a known woman, the Abortion Act gives her the right to information and guidance on the assistance society can offer if pregnancy causes serious difficulties. The woman is entitled to advice, in order to be able to make the final choice in relation to Section 2 of the Abortion Act. A woman who has requested an abortion shall be informed of the nature of the abortion and of its medical effects. Such information shall be provided by a doctor or, if an application for termination of pregnancy is made against a name, it shall be given by the name. If the woman so requests, she shall also receive information and guidance on the assistance society can provide. It also follows from the abortion law that we have. In the case of foetal diagnostics, the woman or the couple shall be informed that the study is voluntary, the risk associated with the conduct of the study, what the study can reveal, and what consequences this may have for the child, for the woman, for the couple and for the family. That information shall be provided before the study is conducted - it is important. If a genetic disease is suspected, genetic guidance shall also be provided for the woman and/or the couple. This also follows from the Biotechnology Act § 4-4. If the study shows that the foetus may have a disease or developmental abnormality, the woman or the couple shall be provided with information and genetic guidance on the disease or disability. They shall also be provided with information on the rights and related ancillary measures. I am very concerned, and I also understand that the representative is, that the woman will receive good and neutral information before, during and after the investigation. That's also one of the reasons why we've now started our own master program in Bergen, which the representative probably knows about -- just to train genetic guides. In addition, the Action Plan for the Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancy and Abortion 2004-2008 contains a number of measures to strengthen the information and guidance provision of women assessing abortion: e.g. information brochures on abortion and the abortion law, on the ultrasonic offer around 18 weeks of pregnancy and on genetic guidance. The Norwegian Association for Developmentally Impaired Workers has produced the brochure «The Difficult Choice» for women who assess abortion due to developmental abnormalities in the foetus. In the year we are now in, this action plan will be further followed up with more measures to strengthen the information and guidance provision of women assessing abortion. For a number of years, the Stortinge has granted funds to the Amathea Foundation, a former alternative to abortion in Norway, which the representative of Davøy knows very well. By this year at the latest, they've had 16 million. kr, and the Foundation offers free guidance to women and couples assessing abortions. I am concerned that information and guidance on the assistance that society can provide must be easily accessible and transparent - information to enhance the competence of local and specialist health professionals, information to strengthen interaction with parents and to strengthen parental knowledge. The information is available per year. Today, both in paper version and on the Internet, such as downloadable data files and as training programmes. I would also like to refer to the website www.familienett.no, for families with children with disabilities and/or chronic illness. The website provides an overview of the rights, offers and activities and user organisations that can be contacted. Here parents can participate and share experiences with others, which is very useful. Another important measure I would like to mention is the Service Phone in the direction of the Social and Health Directorate, which is well-known in maternity wards, in most health centres - as far as I know - and in doctors. The service telephone is an offer to people with rare diseases, to their relatives and to the auxiliaries. In addition, we are continuing the training programme TaKT in 2008. This programme will facilitate the better provision of municipal services to disabled children and their families. There's a good deal of excitement about this program, and I think it's a pleasure. User organisations also report that they consider this to be a good measure. You can't include everything, but I'm finally going to bring out the National Competence Environment on developmental disability, i.e. NACU, which is especially targeted at municipalities. NACU disseminates knowledge in different areas of life to people with developmental disabilities, and we have also received good feedback on it. There is good work to ensure families information about living with disabled children. In addition, we are now implementing new measures during this year under the Action Plan for the Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancy and Abortion. In good time before the plan expires in 2008, we will assess how this work will continue, for example: by improving existing measures or implementing new ones, because we will not end with them when this year is over. That's where I'm open for good recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1041	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is very positive that the action plan will be implemented, that there will be actions that may not yet be implemented. I have had contact with many families, and the Council of State has also recently received a letter from a family that was almost just referred to the Internet. Of course it won't last. You're often in a shock phase, and you need a completely different kind of information than just being referred to having to look for yourself on the Internet. We know that lack of information can lead to more people choosing abortion, especially when you don't have or get knowledge of what's waiting for. We see that parents with children who have Down syndrome are very concerned about the increase in the number of abortions that we see today. They have also started an action called 'Gi voice to different children!'. It's Astrid Alvim who's behind this. She's had a baby with Down's syndrome. Like me, the Council of State is concerned that some of the increase in abortions due to Down's syndrome is actually due to per. Is there too little information today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1050	It's important for me to say on behalf of the Government that all people are as much worth, whether they have Down's syndrome or have disabilities in other ways, in the same way that it's very important for the Government to stand upright with regard to the woman's right to sea to decide and make the difficult choices that women sometimes have to make. This must, of course, be done according to good information and guidance, as I believe the representative is concerned about, because when, after a number of studies, things that one is not prepared for - the representative refers to it as a shocking phase for some - it is of course important that a person get good information about both the alternatives that apply, who can set up and help, where one can seek help, etc., so that one has the opportunity to make real choices based on the real opportunities that actually lie there. That being said, I will defend women's right to abortion when they think it's right. I don't want to be a judge over people's choices, because people are in such different situations. But I want to underline again: People with Down's syndrome are as valuable as everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1059	My follow-up question was whether the Council of State was concerned that the lack of information that we are actually seeing today may contribute to an increase in the number of abortions. So we know that in a letter to the Council of State last October, the NFU, the Norwegian Association for Developmentally Disabled, has recorded this increase in the number of abortions caused by Down's syndrome. In fact, they have specifically asked for a review and tightening of the practice of the abortion law in the case of senaborts. I would like to ask the Council of State whether there is a possibility that the Council of State will simply assess this. This is a very serious recommendation from families who, of course, share the view of the Council of State that everyone is equivalent. They don't want these children to be sorted out because of Down's syndrome, which is not a disease at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1068	The government has no plans to change the abortion law itself. It's clear. However, in terms of information, how to continue the action plan, strengthening measures, etc., we are very open about whether things can be done differently and better. Let me just do three examples of what we're doing now that I haven't mentioned. One is that we are now embarking on concrete measures to increase the competence of permanent doctors and hospital staff in information and guidance, because there we have seen that it has not always been good enough. A new manual is now being developed, for example: The second concerns the information itself, where the Directorate for Social and Health has been commissioned, together with the Medical Association, to make different arrangements for empowerment among decision-makers. The third thing I want to mention is that we're going to try out peer-to-peer work for parents who are waiting for a disabled child, because I think getting in touch with others who are in similar situations can be helpful when you're having such a difficult time. So my prediction is that these issues are not going to get any less in the future, as technology evolves. That is why these are important debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1080	‘BankID’s integrity and the question of whether BankID should be accepted as a national identity system have been debated in the Evening Post following a chronicle of experts Hole and Gjästeen, from UiB and NTNU, respectively, on 17.11. The chronicle was followed by a response from the financial industry Arne Hyttnes and Arne Skauge on 21.11 and the Post and Telecommunications Authority Director Willy Jensen on 26.11. On 29.11., the experts maintain their criticism. How does the Council of State assess these serious objections relating to verification and digital signing with BankID?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1087	I'm very pleased with the question. In order to get more electronic solutions in the private sector, and not least in the public sector, we are totally dependent on being able to rely on e-IDs that are necessary in some cases in connection with electronic services. It must be the goal of the suppliers, and it must also be the goal of the government. BankID is a common solution for electronic ID and electronic signature for the banking industry in Norway. The solution is built in such a way that it provides a secure electronic signature, while ensuring that roll-out and maintenance are not unduly expensive and difficult. The postal and telecommunications authorities have made an assessment of the BankID solution with central storage of secret keys. The postal and telecommunications authorities believe that the solution meets the requirements of electronic signatures in the e-signature law with regulations. The assessment of postal and telecommunications supervision gives BankID is a type of quality stamp valid throughout the EEA territory. It is up to them to make a new assessment if they find it necessary. I am aware that in the context of the media criticism to which the representative refers, they carry out additional investigations to double-check the basis for their previous assessments. We have also been in contact with the Banking Authority, which says that they follow the banks closely to ensure that measures are taken to eliminate possible weak aspects of the banking login mechanisms. As we know, it should have done an effective correction per. 11 January of this year. The credit supervision has opened a supervisory case in December last year, and they are now awaiting formal confirmation from the banks in January that the error has been corrected. In addition, the credit supervision maintains that the banks are safe to use as part of the online banking login. It is important to point out that not only Norwegians, but the Nordics as a whole, are at the forefront when it comes to using network solutions. This is precisely why it is so important that we still have a focus on choosing safe solutions. The various supervisory authorities dealing with BankID - the Post and Telecommunications Authority, the Credit Authority and the Data Protection Authority - follow up the criticism of each of their work areas, but they have also had coordinating meetings between themselves. This is not least important in relation to the supplier. I thought it was a good follow-up, and I expect that the faults that might have been will be corrected in line with what I have said, but one of them obviously has a focus on security.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1102	According to the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation, BankID is safe, and after what the Council of State now says in its answer – which I otherwise appreciated – it is clear that it is being seized to ensure that BankID is safe. I am very positive about that, because I believe that BankID is the means of verification, or the electronic signature, which is obviously the most widely used, which obviously most have a relationship with, and which, in my opinion, the state should strive to take proper action, so that this can become the electronic signature that the state now needs to get ahead in the modernisation of public services online. The follow-up question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State wish to contribute to the further development of BankID in cooperation with the banking industry to become the national electronic signature system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1109	The last thing we don't have to do is take the position. We've been listening to what using the market players -- as the representative of Greece was at the moment -- will actually mean. We see that these e-IDs that are on the market have had a very flowering and rollout. Only since 2005, there has been a great deal of progress in this area. What's important to us when we're going to make decisions is, of course, to ensure security, to secure personal issues around it, and of course, it's an economic issue at all. Should it be, for example, does the individual entity cost something to use e-ID, or should there be a framework funding that makes use of e-IDs free of charge? Unfortunately, the model that we had to complete in 2006 had the effect that the expenses had to be paid per person. postponing. It's going to be the inverse incentive for the etats. The Tax Directorate would then pay for both me and the representative of Greece when we deliver our self-messages electronically, and it will be a hopelessly opposed incentive to introduce electronic services. [[The President clubs.]] So we need to find an electronic finance model. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1116	The President will remind you that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1119	At least I see the Council of State there that she does not refuse to use BankID or to build on the BankID platform to get a functioning public electronic signature that is widely used, that people know, that people are familiar with, and that can work. I have no problem saying that it would be nice if the Council of State and the Department could develop their own solution, but I have no faith that it will happen. We see that, among other things: in Finland, testing using a public e-ID system. It was expensive to develop, it got little spread -- it was really a failure. On the basis of some state data projects, I have little faith that the Council of State will have the resources needed to develop this system. So my call is: use the functioning system, engage in a positive and constructive dialogue with the banking industry and the financial industry, and find a system that works!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1128	I think that the representative of Greece would be as busy as I am that if we were to choose to use the market, we had to let a competition decide who might have such an offer, not go to a direct illegal purchase. But it's clear that the market is on the road with up to several e-IDs, is of interest to us in connection with the decision we're going to make. If the public should make an e-ID that then zeros out a market, I think is an absolutely interesting point of view. But then I think it has to be mandatory, otherwise you wouldn't get the rollout and the spread of the use that we need for it to be successful. These are things that the government hasn't agreed yet, we're going to come back to it. Most importantly -- what I understand is that both the representative of Greece and I are busy with -- is that no matter what e-ID we're going to use, whether it's their market or a public one, it has to be safe to use. Our residents and businesses must trust that the relationship where they use e-IDs will be between them and the service provider involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1136	‘An important key to success in society lies in good language skills. Good schooling and successful schooling depend on children mastering the language. Therefore, the Right introduced funds into the 2008 State budget to extend the important language mapping to all four-year-olds in the country. The government has announced a municipal obligation to provide language stimulation to pre-school children, as well as an assessment of special pedagogical assistance. When will the Council of State ensure that the Government goes from word to action and implements the measures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1143	The government is very busy giving all children equal opportunities to develop themselves and their abilities. We agree that language is an important key to happiness in society. All children in need of language stimulation shall be provided with it, either in kindergarten or by other means. The government believes that good kindergartens are important in providing a good language environment and language stimulation to preschool children. So we're happy that we're now approaching full coverage. We are concerned that children without children's playground will also receive the necessary support. Local authorities therefore need a system to detect and facilitate the provision of outside childcare facilities for children. We know that several municipalities have already established language incentives for children who do not go to kindergarten, for example. Oslo, Kristiansand and Fredrikstad. We need to get a comprehensive overview of such offers. As the representative has been informed, the government has launched a decision on the municipal obligation to provide language stimulation. The distribution has so far revealed the need for more knowledge. We need an overview of how municipalities are currently following up pre-school children with late language development or children who need language stimulation in Norwegian. We're in the process of such a mapping. When the results of the survey are available, we will consider a municipal obligation to stimulate language.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1150	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that the Council of State says that all children should have equal opportunities. That is entirely in agreement with the Right. But we note with regret that the government so far does not give all children in our country the same chance because it is in terms of early language development and aid rates in certain areas of the country - it has been the Groruddalen, and now in the budget it has become the Drammen. And that's good. There are large concentrations of immigrant children there, so measures here are completely in place. But it is equally important for children in other parts of the country to be taken care of, to be language-stimulated, to be monitored and given the help and support they need. It is equally important for all children, whether they live in town or built. I still think there is a lot of talking and unnecessary with a municipal duty. Can't the government just tell us to do this, and leave it to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1157	At an early stage, the most important measure for children to have a language-based meeting through educational assistance and support is the provision of childcare facilities. Now we have had a massive expansion of kindergartens. For 3-5 year olds, we now have a coverage in Norway of 93 pst. We have greatly reduced the price, which has been an important reason why we have come this far. We must continue to do that. Then it's completely wrong to go in -- as some people now suggest -- to increase the price of a nursery place, which will mean that many children won't have kindergarten space, because parents won't demand it, with the weakening of the possibility of language stimulation that it will mean. In addition, provision is being made in many urban areas - Drammen and Groruddalen are mentioned by the representative, I call others. Then we consider whether we should also introduce a municipal obligation, but I must be allowed to come back to that when we have completed the monitoring we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1164	I'm recording that the state council here is constantly talking about the kindergarten offer. Does not the Council of State feel that it is equally important to capture children who do not have children's playgrounds, and also to provide these children with an equally good language offer where they live daily, whether they are in kindergarten, at home or under the care of others?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1169	All children in Norway have equal opportunities to develop a language in time, with the benefits it will bring them to school. What I'm pointing at is that 93 pst. of all children in their 3-5 years of age go to kindergarten, with the enormous advantage of meeting them with such an offer. This is thanks to the Government's systematic effort to build up kindergartens and to reduce the price, so that many people get there. In addition, many of the largest cities in Norway, where we know that there are particularly many with a minority background, have a language supply. Then everyone senses language stimulation. That's why we also consider whether to introduce a municipal obligation here. There we are now in the process of a mapping, which must be grounded before we take the final decision about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1177	‘One reason why people drop out of work is that they have not benefited well from learning at school. In the treatment of Doc. No 8:10) to strengthen the basic skills of adults, it was from a unanimous committee: «The Committee asks the Ministry to come back to the Stortinget with a separate case with proposals for measures to ensure the right of adults to primary school education.» Almost two years have passed since treatment without any action being taken. [[2005-2006]] What will the Council of State do to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1184	Adults were entitled to initial schooling in 2002. This right is designed in such a way that it applies to all those who need such training. The Training Act also requires training to adapt to the needs of the adult, both in terms of scale, duration and time of instruction. The right to basic education also includes the right to training in basic skills such as reading and accounting. When the right to basic education was introduced, participation in such training did not increase as much as one might have believed in advance. There are several things that can come out of it, among other things. that we have had a tight labour market, so that it has been easier to get a job, or that adults do not know their rights, or that some are not motivated by such training. I would like to stress that there is no doubt that adults are entitled to basic schooling to adapt their needs. In order to follow up on the Committee's comments, I will nevertheless review the practice of the law, see how the information work can be strengthened so that more adults are aware of the courts, and assess whether cooperation between different actors can be strengthened so that the quality of the supply can be improved. I will come back to Stortinget with this in connection with St.prp. No 1 for 2008-2009. I believe that having adequate basic skills is a prerequisite for other learning and skills development, and the government has seen more action - both for more adults to be trained and for the quality of training to be improved. In spring 2007, the Government and KS signed a cooperation agreement with the aim of facilitating stronger and more systematic cooperation at local level between NAV and the education authorities. Better cooperation shall contribute to the creation of more people in work or training. I would also like to mention that in 2006, the Government established the ‘Programme for Basic Skills in the Labour Market’, which is an action to strengthen the provision of training in basic skills for adults. For too many adults, the organisation and quality of the services will be decisive for their ability or willingness to participate. In order to help make training easier to adapt to the needs of adults, a new framework has been developed, consisting of skills objectives and guidance for, among others. basic reading and writing skills and arithmetical skills. The objectives of competence in the framework are based on the objectives of competence in the curricula of the Knowledge Lift, but are adapted to the life and work situation of adults. Finally, I would like to mention that the Spring Government will make a proposal to extend the right to further training for adults. The proposal will mean that all adults over 25 years of age will be entitled to further training if they have not completed such training in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1203	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think is too marked by the fact that he seems to assume that only a legal right is adopted, and the job is done. This whole issue, I guess, shows that it's not that simple. Very many of those at risk of being excluded from the labour market lack basic knowledge in reading and writing. The same applies at least equally to many of the hundreds of thousands who are already out of work and who have a single big dream and one hope, namely to get a new chance and get back to work. That's why this is actually the best social policy you can pursue, and the best thing you can do to combat poverty -- which I thought was important for SV. What will the Council of State actually do in the short term to lift these people out of a hopeless situation and give them a new chance?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1212	The answer was to clarify that I don't think it's enough just to adopt a right - even if I think it's important to say that that right is present - but on the contrary to say a little about what I'm going to go through and consider to see if we're following that right well enough. Just to repeat it briefly: I think we need to look at how the information work can be strengthened, so that more people are aware of their rights, because there may be enough signs that the rights are not well known. In addition, we need to consider whether the cooperation between all the actors inside the image to fulfill the rights is good enough. I would like to present it to Stortinget in conjunction with the next St.prp. No 1st@item:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1219	In a letter sent by Højre’s head, Erna Solberg, to the predecessor of the Council of State, Øystein Djupedal, in June 2007, and which she received only at the end of September 2007, the Røjres leader invited to cooperate in this important matter. Then the predecessors of the Black Councils, Djupedal: ‘We are now in the process of following up on the notified measures.’ Since then it has been quite quiet. It might be because it's been a government change. But I hope and ask for the Council of State to take note of Right's strong commitment to this matter and am prepared to cooperate well with the opposition in order to get action here that works for groups that are totally dependent on basic knowledge in order to get a new chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1228	That's what I'm configured to do. But I probably mean that the label that nothing happened in the period of my predecessor is untimely. On the contrary, important things happened in this area during that period. The ‘basic competence programme for the labour market’ was established. This is an important programme, through which many companies participate and have received support for training. We entered into an agreement with the KS to facilitate better cooperation, and now, as we know, is a proposal for further training in nursing. But I am still prepared to review whether the practice of this right is good enough, and come back to the Storting with my conclusions on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1238	‘The left-hand side of Norwegian policy has tried to eliminate or water down the grades in school at regular intervals, for sharp protests from students and parents. I assume that the Council of State acknowledges that proposals that weaken the grades will further weaken the learning pressure in the school. The government has opened the door to test various assessment tools. Will the Council of State, with its new recognition of the situation in Norwegian school, open up to attempts at grades from the fifth grade where this is desired locally and by the individual school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1245	In order to strengthen the learning of students and their benefits from learning, they must meet with clear professional expectations. I know that a lot of the elephants don't get enough information about where they compare with the curriculum goals. Professionally relevant teacher feedback is an important part of the learning process. Each and every passenger is entitled to such feedback. This school year we have therefore seen in the works a national test of the characteristics of the target achievement. These characteristics describe mastery in relation to the objectives of the curriculum and will be important tools for teachers to give students an assessment that they can learn from. The test started includes a written assessment at the stage of the childhood, but without the use of characters. All pupils, including the pupils at the nursery, should be assured of a professional and motivating assessment in the form of clear descriptions of what they master and what they must continue to work with. The aim of all assessments must be for students to learn from the feedback. A rating argument is that grades provide a basis for comparing performances, e.g. in the case of admission to further education or profession, but this is not a relevant theme for the pupil at the stage of childhood. Feedback through a number character tells each student is on a scale from one to six. A number does not describe to the student what he or she masters in relation to the requirements of the curriculum. Nor does a number itself provide information about what the student needs to work on to improve his or her career. Introducing childhood grades will be the introduction of a feedback system that has both a low information value and a low learning value for the student to whom it is applicable. I therefore believe that there is no need for trials on the use of characters at the nursery. We need to work for a better and more thorough system of evaluation, and also better feedback. We've started a series of trials. I have great faith that more systematic, written feedback at the child’s stage can strengthen the school, but I am not prepared to open up attempts to use the grades at the child’s stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1254	Let me first say that it delights me that the Socialist Left Party and the Left Party of the Workers' Party now, after 25 years of fighting against the characters, manages today's character system and has put away attempts to water down the characters of high school and high school. Let me first say that I'm happy. It is not the case that the relevance of the characteristics relates exclusively to information to the employer and higher education institutions. I do not see that the Council of State has any professional or research evidence to claim that the characteristics do not also contribute to increasing the learning pressure in the school and are an important source of information for the students. Nor can I see that there is a big difference between a student getting feedback that 18 of 20 tasks are correct, or whether he gets a numerical character. My question is: why is it that the Council of State is not willing to initiate trials, when he places so much emphasis on the need for research evidence for the assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1261	We probably have a lot more ambitions for how good feedback we're going to be able to give students at the nursery than just a number character or a percentage right or wrong. The point of the tests we're now working on when it comes to assessment is that we have to be able to give nuanced, good feedback that actually says something about what is required to work on, what is good, and also how to work on it. It will require extensive use of systematic oral and written feedback and assessments. I think it'll give us a strong sense if we close it to the assessments we give the pupils at the nursery, and it'll be important for students both to be aware of what they need to learn, and to have a clear feeling that they're mastering what they actually get.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1266	Let me first say that there is no disagreement about the importance of a thorough feedback. This consensus has been established for many years, without necessarily establishing a proper system of written and oral more complete feedback. I still don't understand this announcement against opening up to trials. I am pleased that the social democrats in Sweden have now opened up to introduce grades at a lower level in school. It is precisely from the recognition that this can be one of several tools to increase school learning pressure and better feedback to students, parents and society around it. I still lack a justification from the Council of State as to why he would not open up an experiment with a professional assessment of such a scheme where it is desirable from the school's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1275	If there's so much agreement about it, it's amazing that not the Right, which was set for four years, was a driver to just create and try out a more nuanced and thorough system of feedback to the elephants at the pediatric stage. And it's amazing that the representative, Sanner, does not pick up figures and how it goes about the work of giving good and systematic written and oral feedback that tells you what you're getting, how you can get things better, etc. - that is not what the representative Sanner addresses in his question and shows that he is busy. It's a very good reason that we've now started the kind of research that we're doing. There are also a number of other aspects of the assessment system in the projects that are currently being worked on in the Education Directorate, and the goal is precisely better learning for the individual and clear and good feedback on the work being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1286	‘The OECD Deputy Secretary-General came to the NHO Annual Conference with three clear recommendations to improve the Norwegian school. One of these was greater transparency about school outcomes. Will the Government follow up on this recommendation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1293	All the elephants of the 5th and 8th years carried out national tests in reading, accounting and reading in English in September last year. The balls got access to their own results immediately. The Public Service Act regulates the conditions for publishing the results of national tests. It is mandatory to provide information on the individual student’s results in the national tests. You cannot publish the results of a school or municipality so that you can identify the results of a single student. Last December, the results of the national tests were published at the School Gate together with other data on learning outcomes, resources, the learning environment and the implementation of the training. Here, schools and municipalities can collect and compile data for their own schools and municipalities or municipalities and also make comparisons with others. In addition, of course, the results are available to the parents and supervisors of each student. Results at school level are only available at the closed, password protected part of the School Port. Every municipality has a password, so that they and the schools in the municipality can see their own data. The reason why the government doesn't publish the results at school level is that we don't want to facilitate the ranking of schools, even if it's not possible to make sure it happens in the media. It is the schools and municipalities that should use the results of the school-level tests as a starting point for a discussion of the quality of training and what needs to be done to improve the results of the pupils. The results at municipal level are publicly available at the School Gate and have been part of the basis of the public debate we've had on the school lately. The Bondevik government published the results of national trials at school level. This was a contributing cause for conflict over the tests and boycotts from many elephants in further training. Many teachers were also skeptical and perceived the tests as a control mechanism rather than as a hub for quality development for each school. The national tests have now been calmed down, and implementation has been successful. There has been a great deal of agreement that the national tests are useful guides for schools and municipalities and that there is a need for a better knowledge of the benefits of training. Andreas Schleicher, who runs the PISA project in the OECD, was in Oslo in December in connection with the submission of the PISA results. He pointed out that the differences between Norwegian schools are very small compared to other OECD countries, and that the publication and ranking of the results at the schools can give a misleading picture of losers and winners. What's the biggest challenge for Norway is the huge differences we have within each school. It is a challenge for schools, municipalities and national authorities to take seriously. Then we don't just have to be concerned with differences between the schools. The OECD 2005 OECD Expert Report on Equivalence and Justice in the Education System also did not provide any clear advice on the publication of data at school level. On the contrary, OECD experts advised Norway to proceed cautiously, and they pointed out, among other things. the risk that the publication of the results of schools could lead to an increase in differences between schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1314	It is quite alarming that the red-green government has chosen to keep the results at school secret to the public and only made them available to the school itself and the municipality as owner. The question is, who is the municipality that owns? Isn't it actually the parents, the voters, those who live in the municipality, and shouldn't they be able to see the results at school level for their school, just to get an open discussion about school policy and school performance locally? Although there is a small difference relative to other countries between schools in Norway, it is still true that a local person feels ownership of his school, and by knowing the results of his school, one could have a discussion of the results of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1319	The results are public, but the Government has not published or facilitated their publication at school level. So that's three more reasons. The first is that we -- unlike the Right -- are concerned that these samples should be used to improve, not rank, school. Reason number two, which I've been through, is that there are strong professional arguments that we in Norway shouldn't do that, and here we support ourselves, among other things. on those who have conducted the PISA investigation and on the OECD’s nuanced assessments of it in different contexts. So the most important difference is that the previous time national tests were conducted, by the Bondevik government, there were boycottings, highly professional criticism and great dissatisfaction, with the result that there was a bad implementation. Now we have a good implementation, with wide opening, among other things. because of the government's policy in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1326	When there was a dispute about the national tests the first time they were carried out, it was precisely because there was a new system. One chose to conduct the tests to get started, and it created a discussion, and it is precisely the discussion that is positive in focusing on the school’s results. By allowing access to information on results at school level to be as limited as what the Government is now proposing, and by holding it back from the communities, it avoids discussion. It is very strange that the Minister of Knowledge, who should be concerned that knowledge leads to discussion, is so inclined to hold back knowledge about the school. Is it not the case that having a discussion between school owners, local residents, parents and students about the individual school will help drive the school forward and point in areas where the school has an improvement potential?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1333	The results are public. And one must wonder if the representative Höie thinks that there has been little discussion about the school lately, based on the national tests. My impression is quite the opposite: I think we should look for a long time after finding a municipality in Norway that has not discussed how the school is - which is very positive - and the successful implementation of national tests is a contributing reason for that. One central reason is that we now avoided that eleven boikotta, and that teachers were not satisfied. So we need to have a list of those who are going to do the tests, and those who are going to take them, so that results and attendance can be used to get that debate. Now they can be used for improvement, and we get debate. So we have successful national tests with the red-green government, unlike with the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1341	‘The lack of qualified personnel in Norwegian kindergartens is a major challenge. The shortage of preschool teachers is great, especially in Oslo and Akershus. In 2006, 1523 exemptions were granted on a national basis. In the primary school it worked in 2005 approx. 7,200 pre-school teachers. What will the Council of State do to get pre-school teachers working at school back to kindergarten to ensure that kindergartens have the quality they are required to have?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1348	Today, some 20,000 preschool teachers work in Norwegian kindergartens, but we need more. About 3000 positions as pedagogical leaders and pedagogical directors are covered by people without pre-school education. That problem is very unevenly distributed across the country. It's a very big challenge in Oslo and Akershus, but in many parts of the country otherwise, the part that works on dispensation, fortunately significantly less. The government has developed a strategy to recruit more preschool teachers to the kindergarten for the period 2007-2011. Getting preschool teachers working in other sectors back to kindergarten is one of the main objectives of the strategy. Until now, the focus has been to increase the study capacity of pre-school teachers and on the guidance and follow-up of newly-trained pre-school teachers. We have set up a working group of key actors in the sector to be involved in measures to increase recruitment of preschool teachers to kindergarten. One of the main challenges they're going to face is how to get preschool teachers working in other sectors back to kindergarten. About 40 pst. by all pre-school teachers, in fact, work in other occupations. The training law opens up so that pre-school teachers can work from 1 to 4 steps in the ground floor. In the last few years, there has been a decline in the proportion of pre-school teachers working in school. In 2000, 26 p.m. worked. by the vocational pre-school teachers in the primary school, while in 2005 the part was reduced to 19 pst. Preschool teachers today make up about a quarter of the annual work done in the first four steps of the base ball. Most of these have continued training in the field of childhood education and are an important complement to the skills of the primary school. I believe that the most important measure to get more pre-school teachers back to kindergarten is that the kindergarten profession is produced positively. In addition, it is important that kindergarten offers a good and inspiring working environment and good working and pay conditions, but this is a matter between the social partners. The government's strong focus on kindergarten in the last few years has helped many people to become preschool teachers. In recent years, there has been a strong increase in the search for preschool teachers, and several of the newcomers are starting to work in kindergarten. Qualified kindergarten staff is an important factor in ensuring good quality in Norwegian kindergartens. I have great faith that our efforts at recruiting preschool teachers to the kindergarten will bear fruit, and that in a few years we will have good coverage of preschool teachers in Norwegian kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1365	Recruitment or having a competent staff is a very important part of the quality of kindergartens. Now, the main focus of kindergarten policy has been to expand capacity. The next series of challenges should be how we strengthen competence and how we strengthen the quality of content. The Council of State mentioned instead of approx. 3 000 of the kindergarten staff today are not trained. Would it have been a good idea to look at strengthening the possibilities of continuing training or having adapted training opportunities for those in a professional situation in this group? It is, after all, a group that is working in kindergartens, and that should be able to continue to be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1372	I would say that for SV and the Government it has been important to focus very strongly on quality while building more places and seeing the price down. It is clear that it is demanding with the very expansion rate we have had, but then we should note that the part of those who are pre-school teachers and who work in kindergartens has actually been stable in a very high growth rate in the last few years. In a flare-up of the rate of expansion, we have a good hope that that part of the path - not least because the search is strong, the lack of education has fallen, and more people who finish the education are going to work. An important measure here is that the representative Thommessen mentions, and there are many today who focus on it around the country: how should a few assistants and others who are in the nursery - in different parallel courses while working or having leave - take educational education so as to continue? This will be an important source of recruitment for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1377	Now, at least there were 7,200 pre-school teachers in high school -- and still there's a significant number. Does the Council of State see a link between the strategy that I expect the Ministry to have for teachers in Norwegian school, and the fact that some of these pre-school teachers who are in primary school might benefit from a return to kindergartens, where their special skills would be fully counted out? Is there any correlation in how the Council of States deals with these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1385	The preschool teachers who work in the elementary school do an important and brilliant job, and we are totally dependent on them to have as many competent teachers as we have. In all cases, it is a question of persons with further education who are in a position to pursue education at the level of the child. They are thus an important complement to the competence we have in the first few years. So this part has gone down a good bit, as mentioned earlier, while we've kept up the part of pre-school teachers among those added to kindergarten. It is necessary for us to look at how several of the preschool teachers go to the kindergarten and work there, but it is important to note that very many people with preschool education work neither in kindergarten nor in school. It is also a major challenge to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1395	‘Globalisation results in an increasing internationalisation of both business and labour markets. This means that both Norwegian workers and Norwegian competence are increasingly interacting with other countries and language areas. Norwegian school needs to meet this challenge and preferably succeed so well that the level of Norwegian education will be a challenge for those with whom we cooperate. Does the Council of State agree that the list is so high, and what does the Government do to ensure that the demands of internationalisation characterise the goal of Norwegian school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1402	It is a goal of the Government that Norwegian education should be good, and it is also a goal of the nation to assert itself in international cooperation. Internationalisation in schools is largely about giving young people the skills they need to close up in society today and tomorrow. Internationalisation could lead students and teachers to develop solidarity with elephants and teachers in areas with weaker demands to be closed down in global competition. The goal of internationalisation, which includes international understanding among Norwegian pupils and apprentices, is based on training laws and the general part of the curriculum. In several adult learning messages and in the Norwegian elementary education curriculums, we find an indication of the importance of internationalisation. We look at the internationalisation of Norwegian education as an integral part of Norwegian education policy. It shall stimulate the professional development of pupils and learners. Competence in language and knowledge of emerging cultures is important for society and, in particular, industry, which report that only English is not enough, to function in an open world economy. In order for new technologies to be qualified for an increasingly international social and business life, there is a need for even more competence than one today. We are concerned about good language training and that more and more students will choose to deepen themselves in the forward language of the further training. Because we're busy with internationalisation and good language training, we've now combined the linguistic, social and economic areas of higher education in order to get more people to choose languages. Other measures will be discussed in the coming language message. Luckily, more and more languages are emerging in the youth sphere. Norway participates in its Lifelong Learning Programme, LLP. There is a programs that turn around to children and young people in initial training, including kindergartens. Teachers and elephants who have participated in this programme or in previous programmes in one way or another, e.g. through exchanges, reporting on increased motivation for learning and knowledge about other cultures and people. Finally, I would like to mention once again that an own big message about language will soon be made, and that at a later stage a message will be presented that deals with internationalisation in education. We believe that internationalisation and global dimensions in training help to ensure that the list is high, and that this could lead to greater respect, openness, tolerance and democratic mindsets among the students, along with a strengthening of intercultural dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1423	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was interesting to hear about the upcoming messages, which we look forward to. The quality of education is reasonably determined by many factors. An essential component is the content of the individual subject and the level to which the student or student wishes to go. The question is: how does the Council of State think that this level of individual subjects should be affected by the educational standard in other countries, and what do you do to get to that link?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1432	We use considerable resources to follow developments in the individual subject in other countries, just to assess what we can learn from how the school works in other countries. In addition, we take part in a series of international studies - which I believe the representative is also aware of after the recent debate - which in itself serve as a basis for comparison and thus inspires us to learn from how to do so in other countries. And I'll also show that some subjects themselves have an international element. In particular, the strengthening of language skills that we need in the future will be very important for internationalisation both at school and not least in business and otherwise in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1439	I thank you again for the answer. Perhaps I should have asked the last question in English or French, but I assume that it is outside the Rules of Procedure. However, I would like to come back to the language training. There's no doubt that another major factor is how general education provides us with a foundation for learning languages as a basis for communicating with the outside world, whether they are those we're going to cooperate with, or those we're competing with. Language skills should, of course, be functional so that they can be used and further developed for practical use. Now I noticed in particular that we can look forward to a coming language message, but it might be interesting to drill a little deeper into this and ask: What are the Government's ambitions for the language skills of those who have gone to Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1448	The language message will probably allow us to drill a little deeper on that question than the next minute allowed, but I'll say briefly: we know that we have a significant forward-looking language challenge in Norway. The business community reports that many lack good enough English skills, but also competence in other languages. In particular, German is a language one has a great need in Norwegian business, where there are not enough people with good enough skills. That's why I'm busy with other pronouns at the nursery, and I'm very happy with the increase you're seeing at the youth stage. It's very worrying what we now see in continuing training, where we almost have a halve of the number of those who choose languages. That is why I am busy with measures that could improve the situation. Then we also have to be occupied with the same within higher education, not least that we are able to develop skilled teachers within the central language disciplines of the youth school and further education in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1458	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Extensive school day and early retirement of many teachers give rise to major challenges in teacher recruitment. This is an area that occupies many, but the government is completely passive. The right has proposed recruitment plans for teachers both in primary and secondary schools. Why can't the government parties and the state council support this?'
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1467	There is a broad consensus that the teacher is the most important single factor for good learning in students. Recruitment of many enough and good enough teachers to elementary school and further education is one of the things I am most occupied with in the further work for a good initial training. The only thing that is equally important is the development and care of the 90,000 teachers we have in school. I am pleased that the representative Halleraker is busy with teacher recruitment, but I want to strongly refute the claim that I and the Government are passive in this matter. On the other hand, it is important for me that the measures we have taken should be knowledge-based and well-considered, and that there are several different factors that affect the recruitment of the teaching profession. The Central Statistical Office has models for the preparation of developments before several occupations, including: the profession of teacher. In 2005, they carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Education the so-called ‘LEARARMOD’, in which they assessed the need for teachers in the light of certain variables on the supply and demand side. Their findings did not give rise to serious concerns about the number of teachers in school. But because we know that the situation is changing, we have now ordered a new version of LEARNING ARMOD, based on an up-to-date knowledge base. Results are expected soon. On the basis of what we will then know, I will assess whether it is necessary to put in place specific measures. In order for young people to want to become teachers, the school must be attractive as a workplace and teacher training must be good training. As Stortinget knows, we are now going through general teacher training with a view to changing the structure and content, so that health and quality characterise the supply. We want to put the framework for a new teacher education before the Stortinget to the cottage. Further quality development in schools is a key challenge, both at national and local level. Instead of compromising the situation and blaming the teachers, we should facilitate better skills development and a good framework for training. I'm glad the school is being described a lot for the time being. We don't get much instigation into the teaching profession if the school in all contexts is produced as miserable, or a talk about a crisis, which I have noticed that some people do. It is not. And we're going to build on the qualities that we have in the school. I do not consider recruitment plans to be a good measure. I also mean that holistic and targeted bets on a good school and good teacher training is a long-term way of recruiting teachers. I want to look carefully at what measures are needed, both the long-term, targeted and systematic and the more short-term, targeting the situation in the near future, when we get an up-to-date knowledge base from the Statistical Central Bureau.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1486	I thank you for your answer. I record that the Council of State agrees with the Right that we want quality in school, and that we are concerned about the teaching situation. But I have to return the claim - as I understood it was to us - that it is we who raise the question of crisis. That is what the Council of State itself did in its New Year's speech to the Norwegian people. I also want to point out that while the Council of State makes all these assessments, things happen. We have 17 pst. lower admissions to the study this year, falling from 27 pst. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether a national recruitment plan for teachers could not contain strategies that could make the teaching profession more attractive, so that a greater search for the profession was made.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1495	I've read the Prime Minister's New Year speech in detail. There's nothing about crisis. The speech says on the contrary that there is a lot of good in Norwegian school, but that we have great challenges and need improvements. I also read in Dagbladet that the leader of the education committee, from Right, writes that there is a crisis. So I don't think that representations of the type of ‘crisis’ and ‘game sphere’ or spreading myths about the school and hence the people who work there today are the opposite. As responsible leaders, we need to build up a desire for a commitment among young people to become teachers, and we need to build up and motivate those who work in school, the teachers who are actually going to meet the challenges we are now facing. So I just repeat that I think it's interesting proposals that have come about a recruitment plan, and that I'm going to look into both short-term and long-term measures, especially after the updated knowledge base from the Statistical Central Bureau is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1507	I thank you again for the answer. If I'm positive in my interpretation, I'm recording a movement towards the fact that the proposal for recruitment plans is about to come forward. I have to say that this attitude has been in the past, it is a paradox that the members of the Government have been concerned about the lack of teachers when they have spoken to the media, so we in Stortinget have not met with an understanding of the proposal. On the other hand, a recruitment plan for pre-school teachers has been established. I would like to challenge the Council of State very specifically whether we can expect that in the message presented to the Stortinget, there will also be a separate recruitment plan for teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1516	The representative may expect that there will still be an engagement to recruit enough skilled and motivated teachers for the school in the future. I'm going to get involved and spend time on what the situation is like when we have an up-to-date knowledge base. Based on this, we will consider good measures to recruit teachers for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1526	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘It is beyond doubt that the competence of teachers is essential to ensure a high level of education. This is also the background to the inclusion of significant means of empowerment in the implementation of the Knowledge Lift, so that teachers can be offered appropriate skills enhancement. How will the Council of State ensure that teachers in the country are actually trained in this way and that means of competence are not disposed of across the new needs of competence arising directly from the promise of knowledge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1535	The allocation of competence development resources to municipalities and county councils in connection with the Knowledge Lift is within the framework of «Competence for Development». Strategy for the development of competence in initial training 2005-2008’. The strategy has been developed in cooperation with the parties to meet skills needs related to the Knowledge Lift. The allocation of funds follows a series of leadership, guidance and follow-up actions to ensure that the funds are used within the framework of the strategy. The elements of the strategy itself are: the individual school and apprenticeship system shall assess the priorities for the implementation of the reform and the co-decision shall cooperate with the parties in seeking technical support from the relevant professional environment to report to the county on the implementation of the use of resources; Then to the Chair of the Politically Administered Strategy and Annual Plan. To get the funds paid, it is an obligation for municipalities and counties to take care of their responsibilities for the development of competences through politically agreed plans. It includes a strategy for the period 2005-2008 and an annual plan for each budget year, with concrete actions and self-financing for municipalities and counties. Then it's a premise that local anchoring should be secured before payment. An additional commitment has been made to ensure that municipalities and counties are informed of how they have ensured that local participation and anchoring in the individual learning area are taken care of. The information letter on the allocation is available in January. Every year of the training period, the Directorate of Education sends out an information letter to the county councillors who copy to all municipalities and county councils in connection with the allocation of funds. In the letter, the directorate makes note of the statements contained in the strategy paper, which are linked to politically agreed plans for local anchoring. Then there is a requirement for annual reporting on the use of funds and the implementation of measures. There is a follow-up evaluation in relation to the strategy. It is Fafo who implements annual reports. Regional cooperation forums are established in most counties between the parties at state level. So I feel reasonably confident that the leaders in the strategy will lead to a good assurance and improvement of their skills for the introduction of the Knowledge Lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1572	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but despite the significant outline of plans and strategies, I am not convinced that what happens in school everyday life is entirely in line with what the Storting has thought and intended. The very essence of the promise of knowledge is the emphasis on basic skills in reading, writing, billing and digital skills. There is also a great deal of focus on the fact that more than just the Norwegian teacher and the math teacher will be responsible for giving students this kind of knowledge on the road, which is the platform you have to stand on to be able to acquire all the other subjects as well. The reports that come back from school show that there are still many short, superficial courses, which create a lot of frustration, and it seems that there is still a little bit of no goal and meaning what is actually being done. So I ask what the Council of State will do to avoid such important means of empowerment being wasted in a superficial course that the teachers think is pointless.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1579	The representative of Aspaker is quite right in saying that implementing a comprehensive plan of competence and a strategy like this, and using government resources well, where we know at the same time that there are significant local resources from municipalities and county municipalities inside the image, is very demanding to get good at all schools in the country. I know that many places work well, but I also know, of course, that it's imperative to make it look just as good in other places. That's why there's a continuous work where we depend on all the terms in the chain to get it done. We have a comprehensive plan and system to ensure quality nationally. We know that municipalities and county councils do. All the way down to the individual school has a note on it. But we know, of course, that one doesn't get to everything just as well everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1584	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State admits that it is not easy to get it anywhere. I think it is very important to focus on it, that the municipalities are aware that the Storting has adopted a reform with some premises that will not be fulfilled if we do not get this enhancement of competence, and that we are also being created the enthusiasm of the teachers to succeed in this reform. SEK 2.5 to 3 billion for continuing education and training under the promise of the Knowledge Trust is the promise of the times for continuing education and training. It's also shown the cooperation with the KS, which I think is very important. Does the cooperation with KS now involve a systematic evaluation along the way? Does this mean that the Department and the KS can take even closer action in cooperation to ensure that the continuing training to be provided? And will Stortinget get a status report on how this works?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1593	As I said, it's a follow-up evaluation of this, which we're very concerned about should be very thorough and good. It will be necessary to report back on how the implementation of the lift of competence has progressed. So I want to say about the challenges that, in addition to ensuring that there is a clear strategy that is anchored in and that takes place at the individual school, we also face challenges related to the follow-up to the skills that are acquired through post-graduate education: that in the single school there is time to develop him further, that he is anchored in the traineeship at the school, that one gets interns for teachers who are going to spend working time on this, and other things. I am working on how to implement the last part of the lift. A thorough evaluation of how it has been done will be necessary, and the main responsibility for this will be the Fafo.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1605	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘In secondary education, it is a major and growing problem that many students choose to discontinue training before schooling is completed. What measures will the Government take to stop the dropout in high school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1614	As both my predecessor and I have pointed out several times, failure in continuing training is a problem Government is particularly remarkable. This was one of the main areas of St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, and it has been a budget area. When we know that one in four doesn't complete in normal time, this is not just a school problem, but also a problem for the whole community. To do something about the problem, more concrete measures have been taken, and let me mention a few. First of all, early effort in the base ball. We know that a large part of those who don't complete further training have gone out of basic school without acquiring enough knowledge. All those who are required to commence further training must have sufficient competence to complete the training. So we have to increase the number of hours in the children's ball -- as we do now -- by 5 hours this year -- and focus on the basic skills, such as reading, writing and accounting. We also work with better advice. We know that many of those who cancel their education say they were selected incorrectly and were unmotivated. Many people do not know what they are doing when they start further training. Good educational choices depend on qualified guidance. In order to strengthen consultation, we want to divide it into a social educational part and a professional and educational part by regulation. We want to make guidance skills requirements and start testing individual development plans. In addition, in 2008 we have raised 27.5 million. for advisers in secondary school to assist advisers in the youth school, and 10 million. kr to bet on partnership in the county. Many call for shorter and more practical courses that provide a competence for the labour market. In the fall, therefore, we have started a development project in which the social partners work together with three municipalities. They provide a two-year training course where most of the training goes on in the company, i.e. a letter of practice. Then it's the program "Knowledge Lift - From Word to Action". There is a commitment to enable more schools to create a better learning environment and good professional and social development for students. For 2007, enhanced implementation of further training was one of three themes of the programme. Finally, I want to point to the number of classrooms. It's a big challenge that some of the elephants don't have a place to learn when they're learning. Through the continuing emphasis on cooperation with industry and the Cooperation Council for Vocational Training, SRY, promotions and governmental sector directives, we have received a significant increase this year in the dissemination figures. But there are still a lot of people who don't get what they need, so that work has to go on for years to come. So yes, I can confirm that we are continuously working on getting more students and elephants to complete their training, and that actions related to this are high on my priority list.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1633	I would like to thank the Council of State for a comprehensive and good response. The right is concerned about giving all young people a good start in life, and we are also talking here about the important labour force for the future. Therefore, as the Council of State knows, the right has proposed to launch a series of measures to reduce high school dropout. I am very pleased that the Council of State here indicates that projects have already been started, and that he is taking this seriously with qualified advice and cooperation between high school and high school, as it is one of the proposals that Right before has promoted. I believe that the Council of State here mentioned that there were three municipalities that had started this. I wonder if it is possible that the rest of the country can start testing projects in this particular area. I know there's a great need for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1642	Yes, we have a lot of important questions when it comes to consulting. So one of them is collaboration between the continuing school and the base ball. There, of course, we'll see where we're going with the test scheme that is. So I'm going to show that, in general, raising the skills of basic counselling is also a major and important challenge for the years to come. We know that many of those who have a disability, but also many of those who are working later, say that it is because of little motivation and wrong choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1649	Thanks for the answer. The right is concerned that young people who have already dropped out of school will have a new chance. The Councils of State had much to do with the problem. The right has proposed to launch training programmes for young people who have already quit high school, and I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: How will the Council of State facilitate and contribute to the rapid return of young people who have already dropped out to a training programme where, for example: are also considering the use of student establishments?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1656	It's an important issue. Prevention of non-response is the most important thing, but as long as the rate of non-response is so high, we also need to look closely at how we can help many of those who have fallen from further training. There I am interested in good performances and ideas, but not least in assessing how we can find the opportunity for the transition between learning and practice that hits many of the people who have fallen from it, has not been able to function with their schooling. I think that all the initiatives and proposals in this direction are positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1664	My question also goes to the Minister of Knowledge. ‘Before the summer of 2007, the Education Directorate sent out, at the hearing, inter alia, a proposal that pre-school teachers should be able to teach students up to 7th grade. The matter was raised by the class struggle on 4 December 2007. In view of the challenges faced by the school, the overall school authority today should send clear signals that teachers need to have education and professional competence adapted to the level and subject matter in which they are to teach. Has the Council taken any initiative in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1673	Following consultation with the Ministry, on 13 July 2007 the Directorate for Education will be hearing two proposals to strengthen the skills requirements for the addition of teachers to the basic school. The one proposal was to strengthen the requirement for the addition of pre-school teachers in the first year of primary school, the second was to strengthen the professional requirements for teachers to be appointed to teach in the three subjects of Norwegian, mathematics and English at the youth level. In the hearing, it was well done that the department and the directorate wanted changes as soon as possible. It was also briefed that a work was to be started in the department with a view to a fundamental assessment of the entire chapter of competence of the regulation. The work is in progress and is closely linked to the assessment we are going to make of teacher training. The proposal in the hearing was that the pre-school teachers to be appointed in the first year must have at least one year of further education geared towards education. This means that the requirement will be the same as the current requirement for the addition of pre-school teachers at year 2-4. In addition, the hearing bodies were asked if further-education pre-school teachers should be able to attend the entire childhood and not only in the 1-4th year. The background to this question was that in the introduction of the Knowledge Lift, a distinction was previously made between the small step and the intermediate step lifted. I am aware that the results of the hearing are now in the Directorate of Education. As soon as the recommendation from the Education Directorate is transmitted to the Ministry, I will take a position on what will be put into practice by the proposals and questions that have been being heard. I can assure the representative, Gundersen, that I am engaged in giving a clear signal to those who are added as teachers that they have competence in accordance with the educational tasks to which the addition applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1686	I really appreciate that insurance. I noticed that the consultation proposals included tightening the requirements. We're discussing how to raise the status of the teacher now. That's a missing question. A lot of people talk about it, but there are questions about what measures are actually taken. I noticed that the minister of knowledge told the representative Thommess earlier today that pre-school teachers are doing an excellent job in school. That's what they do, based on their assumptions. But they also have a completely different educational platform to work from. I think, as the Minister of Knowledge concluded, that teachers have education and competence for the level at which they are going to teach is one of the most important things to be able to raise the status of the teacher. Then we don't have to go in the opposite direction all the time. So even though the Council of State did not give a clear and unambiguous answer, that it is not relevant today, I hope he follows up what he says in words.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1697	So it's going to be something like that. one of four teachers working in the school at 1-4, has a background as a pre-school teacher. But in general, they have continued training specifically directed to the school and the subjects and tasks you have in those years. They do an important job for the first few years of school. We're very dependent on them. As I said, it is a significant part. I think that increasing the status of teachers is also related to how we politicians talk about the skilled and committed teachers we have in school today. Then I thought we should take advantage of as many opportunities as possible to tell about the important work they are doing, with different backgrounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1704	I agree with that, too. But talking doesn't help, we also have to create results. That's what builds the status of the whole school. I want to draw the knowledge minister's attention to a certain problem here. In the right, we have already proposed raising the admission requirement to the teacher's school. In the pre-school study there is no recording requirement at all. There is no doubt that many people enter the pre-school study, who would not have been involved in general schooling. It will thus be possible to experience that pre-school teacher training, with additions, could become a type of kitchen road into the teaching profession. It's a problem that I think you should take seriously when you focus on the status of the teaching profession. It's not supposed to happen. I hope the Minister of Knowledge will take that into account in the assessments he is about to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1711	I didn't think we should suggest in any way that many of those who do this important job have come across a kitchen road, on the other hand. But it is absolutely necessary to look at how we can ensure that there is competence among the teachers for the tasks and the subjects they have. There is a background to this proposal - to look at both the competence requirements to teach at the first stage of the childhood school and the competence requirements to teach at the youth level in very central subjects. Then we also have a major challenge with teacher training in the future. As I have notified, we are now going to start a work to look at the device, structure and content in it. One of the questions we have to consider, of course, is the admission requirements for teacher training, just as we have to assess the requirements for the competence of those who come out of the teacher's education to teach in the individual subjects of the primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1718	The size is then addressed to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1724	‘The new provision of the Foreign Affairs Act on the strengthening of child ties with the Reich has resulted in a large number of families with children living in the country following a new UN treatment. The policy that UNE appears to be imposing, however, does not allow families of children to stay if they are under school age. UNE then considers that the child’s main relationship is with his or her parents, and that the relationship with Norway does not mean that much when the child is in the nursery or at home with his or her parents. Do the Council of State agree with this practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1731	The purpose of the new provision of the Foreign Regulation is to facilitate the granting of a residence permit to children who have received a special relationship with Norway as a result of long periods of residence. However, children who have lived for a few years in Norway will not have a strong relationship with the country. The link has to be assessed in concrete terms in each case. The age of the child is one of several elements discussed in the letter of consultation of the regulation, where, for example: It is assumed that a school-age child will develop links with Norway more easily than a child who lives here in his or her very first year of life. In a circular on the entry into force of the regulation, the Ministry also said that emphasis should be placed on whether the child is going to kindergarten or school, on whether the child is speaking Norwegian, and on the situation otherwise suggests that the child is specifically linked to Norwegian society. As I know, UNE has followed up this in practice. UNE emphasises the age of the child, whether the child attends Norwegian school, and whether it can otherwise be considered to be integrated into Norwegian society. There is some emphasis on whether the child is in kindergarten. However, very young children are considered to have their primary relationship with their parents, even though they have gone to kindergarten in Norway. This is a practice I believe is in accordance with the regulation and its purpose. Finally, let me make it clear that there will always be an overall assessment where many aspects are assessed. It is then also granted a residence permit under this regulation to families with children under school age.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1740	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased that he says that it should be an overall assessment, because there are many aspects that matter in terms of connection to the kingdom. One of those conditions is language training. We use as a argument to have primary language training in primary school language development in the first years of life, when the child forms his or her concrete understanding of concepts, in the first two years of life, and many children who live in Norway will learn Norwegian faster than their parents. In my view, it is part of the connection to the kingdom if one makes his first experience linguistically in Norwegian. Does the Council agree that language and linguistic development should also be considered?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1745	As I said: In a circular on the entry into force of the regulation, the Department, i.e. the AID, said that ‘there should also be an emphasis on whether the child is going to kindergarten or school, on whether the child is speaking Norwegian, and on the situation otherwise indicates that the child is particularly related to Norwegian society’. So yes, language is one of the elements to consider in an overall assessment. But at the same time, I also believe it is important and right to stress that what we are talking about is children who have established a connection with the Kingdom of Norway, and it is clear that if we are talking about a child aged 1 1/2 to 3 years, it must be relevant to ask questions about whether this child has established a relationship with the Kingdom of Norway, or whether it has first and foremost established a relationship with their parents and their caregivers. So building a connection with the kingdom, a connection with Norway, is related to the child’s age.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1752	One could be tempted to ask the State Council the question: When do children become children? When the Storting discussed this matter, a ‘child’ said without reservation, one did not say ‘except for the smallest children’, and it is important that the intentions of the Stortingen that children are allowed to be children from their very young age are kept. But my question is more about the following: In the case of a five-year-old, the Christian People's Party is very concerned that not age is to be used against him, that not that he has not yet gone to school, is to be used against him when assessing whether his connection to the kingdom is enough for a residence permit to be granted. When we look at children's relationship with their own rights, for a five-year-old, there will be many points that may be linked to the rich - there may be playmates, there may be connection in the community, and there may be connection to kindergarten. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State ensure that not young age, e.g. five years, used against a child when assessing connection with the kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1759	I do feel that I am in a phase where I repeat myself, and then I get to quote again what we have said to the foreign authorities in the form of regulations. It is stated in the regulation that ‘the child’s presence in kindergarten or school should be stressed, whether the child is Norwegian speaking, and whether the situation indicates that the child is specifically linked to Norwegian society’. It's not, unlike what many have suggested as a possible suggestion here, to set very clear year limits, age limits, and say so and so long for it and that age. This is more of an overall assessment. It is important, as I said in my main response, to stress that there will always be an overall assessment, where many aspects are assessed. And so far, after this regulation came into force and all the cases that have been dealt with, the vast majority of people have been granted residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-01-16.ana.ud2209e1764	Then the ordinary question mark is over. Does anyone ask for the floor in accordance with Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
