ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e22	The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will present a proposal for a representative. She's not here. The representative, Mr Giltun, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e27	I have the pleasure of promoting a proposal to improve diabetes care. On behalf of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Harald Valved and myself, I propose a standard for diabetes teams in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e32	The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e35	On behalf of the representatives of Ulf Leirstein, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Jørund Rytman and myself, I am delighted to propose raising the duty-free import limit to NOK 1000.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e40	The representative, Ulf Erik Knudsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e43	On behalf of Karin S. Woldseth and myself, I would like to make suggestions to reduce the video/DVD fee and to ensure the possibility for Norwegian online distributors of films.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e73	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen Sylvia Brustad Terje Riis-Johansen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. AscendingSort order for mail groups We'll start with the first main questions from Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e92	I have a question for the Minister of Defense, not unexpectedly. In the context of future long-term defence proposals, there have been a number of indications as to which conversions will be proposed. Then I have to ask the Council of State: how is Stortinget going to be able to make the right decisions when we do not know the cost of the proposals? And when will the Stortinge be presented with the full cost calculations carried out in connection with the FS07 and the forthcoming long-term proposal? In FS07 it is also proposed to move FOHK from Jåttå to Bodø. There is no doubt that the cost of such a move will be very large. Several media have found that NATO has approached Norway and explained that such a move would result in NATO having to assess its presence in Norway. Can the Council of State guarantee Norway's relationship with NATO, and that NATO's presence has been clarified and will not result in a changed status by a possible move from Jåttå to Bodø?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e101	As regards the long-term proposal for the defence, we have informed Stortinget that it will be presented in March. With regard to the cost calculations of the proposals that will be made in the context of the proposal, all of them will be duly mentioned, with the quality assurance carried out, in the proposal. The figures and calculations currently known through the Defence Manager’s defence study are now out of external quality assurance. All of this will be thoroughly reviewed and presented to the representatives, as usual when making a long-term proposition. With regard to NATO's presence in Norway, I would also like to say that NATO is concerned that Norway has an effective command structure, an effective management structure and gets the most operational activity out of the money spent on defence. It's in NATO's interest. It works with NATO in many countries, and it is in Norway's interest. NATO has a training centre in Stavanger, and we have had a good dialogue with NATO about the training centre and have said and assured that if it is time to move FOHK from Stavanger, Norway will still support NATO with the host country support and the host country obligations we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e110	On 12 February this year, the Progress Party sent a letter to the Council of State asking for the FS07, as we, like the other opposition parties, feel quite wrong and do not know what this will cost. I also think it is a bit striking that the government parties were actually early out and talked about and made decisions in relation to which base they would concentrate on or not. Is it true, then, that government parties have access to the background material? And likewise, what does the government think about the long-term proposition, which the opposition does not have, and which we have repeatedly called for? We feel that this is a very bad basis for the agreement that the Government hopes and claims that we should join as opposition, when we do not get any insight at all, and are not allowed to join in and make any input.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e117	Working towards the long-term proposition, the Chief of Defence's study has been used. The numbers that are there are known for the government parties on the Stortinget, and they are known for the opposition. In the case of others who have recorded the long-term proposition, there is in particular a Defence Policy sample, where also the Progress Party and the other opposition parties had a representative present. They were around all over Norway, on many bases, even abroad, and were made familiar with the defence activity in a very thorough way. Everyone was treated the same way. I would like to believe that the representative who had the Advance Party in the Defence Policy Committee also had a good dialogue with his representatives on the Stortinget. The knowledge that emerged was given to everyone in the sample, whether politicians or other experts were present.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e124	There'll be four follow-up questions--first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e127	Lieutenant Colonel Tore Idsøe, who until recently worked at NATO headquarters in Norfolk, USA, confirms in Stavanger Aftenblad on 1 March that they received with disbelief the information that Norway had planned to break up the co-location between the Joint Warfare Centre and the FOHK on Jåttå. He clearly says that this is a very dangerous signal to send into the alliance in connection with the future work on NATO's structure in Europe. How does the Minister of Defence assess the importance of NATO’s permanent presence in Norway through the Joint Warfare Centre? Does the Secretary of Defense share the clear concern of Colonel Tore Idsøe in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e134	Of course, it is important for Norway that NATO is present in Norway. NATO had a command headquarters in Bodø, which has recently moved away. The training centre in Stavanger has both the head of defense in his talks with NATO and I in conversations with both the management of the ACT - those responsible for the training centre - and with the head of staff there now, assured us that we will support the host country support to which we are obliged. I maintain the support we're going to give to NATO as a host country. We're going to give it either we stay in Stavanger with everything that's there today, or there will be suggestions to move.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e140	Dagfinn Højbråten - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e143	The Minister of Defence rules with a party that wants Norway out of NATO. It may seem that they can succeed in getting NATO out of Norway, for the plans currently under way put NATO’s presence in Norway at risk. Defence spokesperson in the Workers' Party, Signe Øye, has told Stavanger Aftenblad that she seems wise to carry out an impact assessment of the issue of NATO's presence in Norway with regard to the possible relocation of operational headquarters. My question to the Minister of Defence is: does she agree that it would be wise to make such an impact assessment before the matter is brought before the Stortinget? I also record that the Minister of Defence here informs me that the figures in the defence study are now out for external quality assurance. It is interesting to note, then, that while the figures are out for quality assurance, the size groups in the government parties take their stand on the basis of the figures that existed before.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e154	Of course, when it comes to impact assessment or investigation of any proposals that come into the long-term proposition, they will be presented to the Stortinget, as I have said. I have said many times in Stortinget that this matter is being brought forward in March, and I am sure of that. All aspects of the proposals that will be proposed there will be presented. This applies to policy assessments, where appropriate, and will also apply to cost estimates, so that this is a thorough work. In terms of other costs and other matters, I refer again to the Defence Policy Selection, where also the Christian People's Party had its representative, which I assume had a good dialogue with their people on the Stortinget. [[The President clubs.]] I would also like to stress that, in this process, I have also had meetings with rapporteurs from all the municipalities that have intended to be affected by the defence study, which was then known. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e163	The President recommends both asking and answering questions to have an eye with the clock. That's 60 seconds, not 63. Odd Einar Doorroom - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e168	Minister of Finance Halvorsen, SV's leader, has created a serious backbone for the debate we have here in Stortinget today, with his suggestion that veto should be put down in NATO. With that curtain, we have the following situation: Defence Policy Selection, where all the parties have been involved, does not take a position on base structures, but they make it clear that we need to look closely at NATO's membership and operational NATO's membership. It is with that backstop, which is unanimous from the Defence Policy Committee, that the debate on both NATO's activity on Jåttå and, for that matter, NATO's broad activity on the Ørland Air Station with half of the allied exercise activities in Norway, with operational AWACS activities, draws a landscape that is formulated on my part as follows: When we see the Chief of Defense's study, it may seem as if the head of defence, despite everything one should believe about a head of defence, will have NATO out of Norway. But the interesting political question is whether it's also the government line? Here we know that NATO is polite, but it's our actual actions that count. Yes, and the Eagleland is counting. Where's the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e173	It is important for Norway, and it is important for our government that we base our security on our membership in NATO. That is why, as a NATO member, we are committed to following up our membership obligations and also being an active member of NATO, in the alliance, both in defence ministers' meetings and in foreign ministers' meetings. There should be no doubt that NATO is important to Norway. Of course, with regard to proposals in the defence study to the head of defence, and which of these proposals we will promote in the long-term proposition, they will be duly mentioned, both in terms of political assessments, possible NATO assessments and the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e180	Per Roar Bredvold - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e183	In connection with the plans to establish a new combat aircraft base in Bodø, claims have been made that there are also huge additional costs in this project, due to noise and other investment needs, which are not identified in the Defence Study 07. The costs are said to be incurred in approx. DKK 4.5 billion. When you set this amount up against the Defence Manager's wish, for example. parking our new MTBs, which has an annual cost of 200 million. kr, precisely because of the lack of money, this is very objectionable to the Progress Party. Can the Council of State guarantee that the economic aspects of the possible establishment of a new flight base in Bodø will be presented to the Stortinget prior to the treatment of such an establishment?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e192	I record that there are many numbers and many articles in different media about different suggestions that may be in the Chief of Defence's study. I repeat that I have not presented the long-term proposition yet. It's coming in March. We haven't concluded, and as long as we haven't concluded, there's no relationship in which it can be speculated. What I repeat once again is that when the long-term proposition is put forward, all the assessments of the proposals that are being promoted there should be known to the Stortinget - it should be economic or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e199	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e202	I allow myself to ask questions to the Minister of Health. We carried out a health reform in 2001, with effect from 2002. One of the aims of the health reform was to clear governance structures and to have a health minister who took responsibility for the major priorities, while at the same time leaving responsibility for the minor adaptations and changes at the lower end of the decision-making system. Another important purpose was to put an end to the inter-government blackmail, the attempts to play politicians against each other. From the first day it was a challenge, among other things. because the previous government had an opposition that the representative Sylvia Brustad was then a member of, who chose to attack very many of the measures where we went in order to manage better. In the spring of 2005, the newly-baked mother, his own child, born in the Rikshospitalet, rolled forward in the fight against the closure and alterations of the Rikshospitalet Women's Department. Today, the health minister is so lucky that she has an opposition that last week supported her against the game. On the contrary, we have asked the Council of State within six months to give us confidence that we can now have a health management system where we can prioritise the weakest groups and the most important tasks, a management system that enables us to build up instead of experiencing chaotic conditions. We have given the Council of State six months to put forward a clear governance for this, so that we can have faith in the reform that was a performance project for the Workers' Party under the previous government, but is now drowning due to a lack of action by the current Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e216	First of all, I want to distance myself from words that are ‘drinking’ and that there are ‘caotic states’, and that the representative Erna Solberg is trying to beat political coins using that kind of word. I think it's been a long time since there's been such strong governance in this sector as it is now. I am very pleased with the excitement I got from most parties when I had a statement on behalf of the Government here in Stortinget, that the main response now is not to give more money, but that there must be some other governance. I would also like to remind the representative Solberg of something that the Stortinget agreed to, namely that this government has now for the first time prioritised activity growth for the current year. It didn't happen as long as Erna Solberg was in government. It is also this government that has solved what has been an unresolved problem since 2002 and is one of the reasons why many hospitals have deficit problems: having money for investment, new construction, maintenance and purchase of new equipment. I think Erna Solberg and Right have made more constructive contributions to how we can make this model even better, and that's something we'd like to talk more about. When it comes to how we're going to do it, I'm going to say that we've already presented a national health plan. I see that the Right is calling for us to do that, but we have, as I said, already put forward such a plan. It must be further developed all the way, and we must not least grasp - and we have done so - what is involved in the interaction between the different levels. I think some of what people experience as one of the biggest problems is that there is not enough cooperation between primary health services and specialist health services. That's also one of the reasons why we've given 50 million. kr to various interaction measures in this area, entered into agreements with the Local Governments' Central Association, and is strongly guided by the mission documents and business meetings we have every year. I also fully agree that we should have the boards do their job as far as possible. There is an important foundation in the whole reform, but I also want to remind you that when we try to let them do that, there are many, including from the Erna Solberg Party, who come with questions and are in the torch to do something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e229	The fact that local politicians are fighting, I think it's okay, but government councils, former bigots representatives, undermine, like the Brustad State Council did when she was a bigot, I think it's something quite different. I want to say one thing. From 2002 to 2008, the appropriations for Health Norway have increased by DKK 35 billion - from 50 to DKK 85 billion. 17 billion of this increase was granted under the previous government. There was a strong commitment then, and I agree that there is a strong commitment to the health sector now. This is the sector we focus most on. At the same time, the Council of State has given instructions to purchase fewer services from private individuals. It contributes to the current growth of health cows. The Wisløff Committee has not been followed up on the interaction between the first- and second-line services, and has been cut for rehabilitation days, so that there are more people coming in again and again in the hospitals. I think it is in these areas that we now need to clarify whether the Council of State has a different attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e236	Firstly, it is not right that we have cut money for rehabilitation. We're using more, but it's been a clean-up with regard to the quality of some training institutions. There are several people who are now being rehabilitated in hospitals, and it is also that very many of the training institutions are fortunately filled up now. Most of them are private, ideal, and it's the government for, not least through the new system of active health services, which the representative knows well. So to the question of cows. The last waiting list numbers we got showed a slight increase of three days. There's someone going up, and someone going down. That's what I would call fairly normal fluctuations. But when it comes to the question of cows, the queues are also an expression that today we can treat a lot more than what we did just a few years ago. Let me use an example: a few years ago, people who were deaf remained deaf. Today, you can operate and get something called cochlea implants in your head, behind your ear, which makes you hear. Of course it'll be cows. So much of the explanation that we get cows is that we can process more. That's why it's not so very negative, I think, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e243	There will be four follow-up questions - first Jan-Henrik Fredriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e246	In Oslo, the situation is so traumatic for hospital operations that measures have to be cut because too many have been operated on. At the same time, the Council of State says that these cuts should not affect patients. We also see that doctors end up protesting that the experts are disappearing because of economic chaos. Who is it that you have operated too much? Is it the case that hospitals are losing money to operate those in need with the transfer regime we have today? What is the primary task of hospitals, is to deal with faulty economic governance, or is it treating people who need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e251	I think it is very interesting that a member of the Stortinget says that a relationship is with faulty economic governance. It is the Stortinge that has adopted the financial framework for our health sector as well. In fact, I believe that it is my duty as Minister of Health to ensure that all those for whom I am responsible follow up the decisions that the Stortinge decides at all times. It also applies in relation to the economy. I also notice that the Progress Party, as I see it, is the only party that says that the only answer now is to give more money. No, I mean it's wrong. We have to make sure that everyone is concerned with the decision of the Storting. It is fully possible within the framework of this sector, with an increase of over DKK 7 billion for the current year, to provide good health services throughout the country. The situation in parts of hospitals is that several of them spent more money last year than the Stortinget gave. It is clear that there will be some extra changes for the current year, but all hospitals in this country have received more money from last year to this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e258	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e261	There is no doubt that there are currently inequalities and management problems in health businesses. Last week we heard about patients who are not being taken care of at the hospital emergency room. The Health Director went so far as to say that there was a lack of management. This characterises everyday life, and this leads to irresponsible patient treatment. My concern is that this is not only the case at the emergency wards, but also at other parts of the hospitals. How does the Council of State assess the governance and management functions of other departments in hospitals today? And: How will the Council of State ensure the provision of leadership functions at all levels, so that you actually get better control in the hospital sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e268	I fully agree with the representative from Davøy on the supervisory report we received on the emergency receptions. That report is serious, and it is not, of course, acceptable that it shows that there have been, in several of our emergency receptions, and in part, a situation where there is not good enough operation. The State Health Authority, as the representative also points out correctly, clearly states that there is a lack of management and organisation at several of these emergency receptions. It must be that all people, especially in critical phases, are confident that they will receive good treatment. I have already dealt with this with the directors and the managing directors of the regional health companies, and I am going to have a corporate meeting with all the boards of the regions about this on 14 March, as far as I now remember, just to emphasize the seriousness of it. I expect it to be cleaned up in this immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e275	Gunvald Ludvigsen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e278	The big question is, can health reform be feared? One of the major architects behind the hospital reform was Paul Hellandsvik, and he has said that if we are to manage to get the hospital reform on our legs in the short term, we need a permit of $2 billion in order to get motivation and clarification about the reform. He calls it "biting in the sour apple". My question to the Council of State is simple: Is a sour apple worth $2 billion enough to save the health reform, or does the Council of State have better and healthier fruit in the sleeve?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e286	If I had 2 billion kroner at my disposal here and now, I'm not sure I would have put this money into the specialist health service. On the contrary, I believe that this money should have been spent on strengthening primary health care, for some of what we see is that a good part of the patients coming to hospitals should have been treated at a lower level. This may particularly apply to some elderly patients. We also see it in relation to some of our emergency receptions; many of them should have been treated at a lower level. In addition, I believe that we have a great potential to do a much more active prevention work, that is, to prevent people from becoming ill. When 200,000 people in Norway have COLS, much because of smoking, and over 150,000 have diabetes 2, a good deal because of our lifestyle, that's where we have to put in a blow to prevent people from getting sick. I think rather, if I had 2 billion kroner, I'd spend more money on that activity than in hospitals, because there we have to sort out that they have to deal with the limits they've been given, and they've got the best framework in history for the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e293	Sonja Irene Sjøli - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e296	I perceived Brustad's response to the representative, Solberg, so that it was half-way to meet the demands of the Right that one would have to submit a plan within six months on how to solve health problems. I would like her to answer that question. As she now had in reply to the representative Ludvigsen, it is a problem that there has been too little investment in health services in the municipalities where people live. There has been a large increase in doctors in hospitals, but not in hospitals. For the patient, this distorted distribution of resources means that they have to go into shuttle traffic between hospitals and hospitals. I think it could save patients for unnecessary travel and at the same time also eased the pressure on the hospitals. The right will focus more on health services in hospitals where people live, and we have also proposed a stepping-up plan for care services and a better allocation of resources. What does the Council of State really want to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e305	First, let me confirm that I'm very interested in having dialogue with both the Right and the other parties about how we can make this reform even better. There is no doubt that we have gained more quality into the service. We treat more than ever and many other good things. But it's probably also that there are things that can be done even better. I'd like to invite you to dialogue about that, and I don't think we're so much in disagreement about a good part of those points. We have already presented a plan, a national health plan, but it needs to be further developed. I am also seaworthy in that context open to good suggestions. Then I fully agree with the representative, Sjøli, that the commitment to primary health care and medical care in hospital homes needs to be much stronger. It is such that some older people, like today, for example. due to pneumonia being sent to a hospital, could have been treated in a nursing home in their home municipality. In particular, the hospital of the representative, Sjølis, is a good example of how this can be done. They have established a contact phone in their hospital that all hospitals can call when a patient needs help. Many of these patients remain in the hospital. That's good for the patients, and that's good for the health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e312	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e315	The most helpful patients are those who have lost their lives in the hospital reform. In the supervisory notice of the State Health Authority, there will be, among other things: provide basic weaknesses in the provision of services to drug users. These include lack of accessibility of services, geographical differences, lack of competence and quality, non-compliance with legal requirements, lack of overallity and coherence in the provision of services. The supervisory findings are in line with the feedback I get by day, namely a trend in the opposite direction of what is the goal of the Government in the escalating plan for the drug field. Services are becoming more and more inaccessible in many places. One example is detoxification in Oslo. Now the waiting time is 14 weeks to get to detoxification. In 2006, the M3 detoxification facility in Oslo closed, and in October 2007, Storgata closed the doors for drug addicts who go on illicit drugs. During the period after 1 October last year, the number of enquiries, for example: in the detoxification department of P22, almost doubled and very, very many had to be rejected. As the supervisory notice points out, there are major shortcomings in the interaction between specialist health services and municipalities. This is one of the biggest challenges that I think we are facing in healthcare today. The funding system for hospitals with a focus on earnings has no element in itself to give priority to interaction between municipalities and hospitals, rather on the contrary. Will the Council of State take the initiative to review the funding system in order to have a system to improve interaction between municipalities and hospitals, from prevention to treatment and rehabilitation, for the benefit of patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e328	We're going through the financial system for a lot of reasons. I fully agree with the representative, Ms. Davøy, that we have to be able to get to a patient process that makes patients not dependent on whether they belong to it or that level and possibly have to start over again, but that they can get what we call a seamless treatment, no matter where they need treatment. So to the situation in Oslo with regard to drugs. Because the situation has been quite challenging in this city, I have had several meetings with the management of the Municipality of Oslo and with Health South-East and asked that they together find a better arrangement, not least in the case of detoxification in this city, because it is obviously not good enough. I have great confidence that it is possible to find good solutions to that. So I also believe that the escalation plan presented by the Government for this field shows a direction in an area where we have to go further, and where we are not in the goal. This applies on the prevention page. When some municipalities have a bulwark policy that I believe is under any criticism, but that belongs to the local maritime administration, it is also such that the municipalities must have a responsibility for what they do with those who have problems due to, for example, a very liberal polity policy. It is about several treatment sites, and it is about treatment facilities that work. I visited last week's Fredheim treatment centre at Ringsaker in Hedmark, which has an offer for some of the most worn-out who have been driving for very many years, and that gives good results. So we have to make sure that we also have within this field both enough spaces on all levels, and that there are places of good quality that make people actually get the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e337	My question about the financing system and review has been raised repeatedly both to the Prime Minister in this Chamber and to the Minister of Health in the past. Now it's probably the first time I get a positive feedback directly that you're doing this. I think it's very positive. Does this mean that the Minister of Health is now going through the whole price system? Does she look at the funding system as a whole, both in relation to priorities, to bias, to miscoding, etc., all these weaknesses that we have now seen, and not least in relation to my previous question of interaction? Does she see whether there can be incentives in the funding system that could actually help to prioritize interaction between municipalities and hospitals, i.e. simply a comprehensive review of the system and the imbalances we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e342	I believe that we need a continuous review of everything we do, and that also applies to funding systems. It is clear that in the case of input-driven funding, where many have opinions about the level of funding to be provided, this is, for example, the case. a statement that someone has used it down to the hospital ward level. This should not happen because it is a governance against regional health enterprises. So it's obviously a mistake. I have told you about it, but some people practice it incorrectly, and we have to sort that out. There's one example of things that have to change. Then it is clear that anything that can help us achieve better interaction for the benefit of the patient is positive. This is why we also look at possible testing schemes e.g. which can stimulate more interaction. As I see it, it's one of the biggest challenges in the health sector right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e349	There'll be three follow-up questions-- first Vigdis Giltun.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e352	It was nice to hear that Sylvia Brustad will look at the economic side of this matter, because it is perhaps the most important side. There are now very many drug users waiting for a drug-assisted rehabilitation offer, but also for the provision of drug-free treatment. Has the Council considered how to bring down the queues and how to have a variety of options for drug users in the future, so that those who choose a drug-free treatment offer can get it, and those who choose a medical assistant can get it? Rehabilitation is very neglected, and this applies to both groups, and in the case of the tender papers which are now sent from health care establishments, there is cause for concern when the rehabilitation period appears to be reduced and there is not enough individual assessment of each patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e362	First, let me refer again to the place I was last week, Fredheim. They say that the arrangements you have with regard to the bids in Health South-East are very good. They say that they're involved in increasing the quality of the offer, and that it's very important that you have systematics in this, which is actually quite complicated. Then it is also that the time set for one year -- I expect the representative Giltun to talk about Health South-East in the first row -- is not absolute. That means that it's going to be an individual if someone needs a longer race than that. I agree that more needs to be done in this field. We've been searingly thinking about the offer and doing something about it both to those who are in medically assisted rehabilitation, and to those who are in other types of rehabilitation. That's why we've put in more money and more places for the current year. But this is an area that we have to go further. So I hope that all parties think that it's important to prevent people from getting into drug abuse, and that you also think through whether you want a liberal or non-liberal tipping policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e373	Sonja Irene Sjøli - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e376	We, as well as the trade unions, had great expectations when it came to appropriations for both the drug field and the rehabilitation field. It was supposed to be missing, too. The Stoltenberg government had NOK 130 billion more to go with in its budget than the Bondevik government had in 2005. But despite this, the government can't really give anything up to either the drug field or the rehabilitation of those who need it the most. Especially serious is it within the drug field. According to the trade union community, it is the second worst budget in ten years. The worst was last year. In addition, the Government makes it very difficult for private offerings and for patients who need a more complex offer over time. How does the government actually tackle the challenge in the drug sector in terms of capacity, quality and diversity of treatment provision, when several of the private services are closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e383	I do not agree with that description of reality, that it is worse now than it has been for a long time, or worse, as the representative Sjøli said. There is evidence that more money has been given, not least to hospitals, where part of those who are struggling with alcohol get help, and also to care outside hospitals. But we have to move on. I fully agree that in this area we are not in the target. It's about prevention. It's about treatment, and it's about after-protection. I meet a lot of people who say that yes, we've been lucky to have been in, for example. The Tyre Collective or somewhere else, but what's it going to be like when we get home, where there's very few that follow up? One of the concrete measures proposed by the Government, which we have been able to join here in the house, and which the representative knows, is that we want to set up a pilot scheme with trustees to follow up each one after they have been in a treatment offer, in terms of how they should proceed in order to prevent them from going on again. To move on, I believe that this is an area where dialogue is important, because more treatment is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e390	Dagrun Eriksen - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e393	To the last council of states said, I can point out that in Kristiansand there is a very good job in this matter with trustees, and I can tip more about it. But I also want to say that it's a paradox. We have great challenges. We have many drug users who need help, and there are people who need help when they are motivated to get it. Nevertheless, we can see that the private individuals involved in community ownership are running with vacancies, while drug users who are motivated are waiting to receive the offer, among other things. are available in hospitals. This is also about the funding system, how we can see all the levels in the context, and how we can manage to provide the most help. We know that it's when people are motivated, that they need a place. It is not useful to say that they must come back in three months. How can we achieve a better funding system to protect vulnerable users?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e402	As I said earlier to the representative Davøy, I believe there is a reason to look at this as well. I agree with Eriksen's representative that one must try to give the offer when people are motivated, but one must also make sure to try to motivate those who are not motivated. Then it is said that we have to be able to see the municipal services together with those we have in the specialist health service, in an even greater and better context than what we do per. today. Then there's probably a lot of roads to Rome, and probably a lot of opinions about it, but I think it's about making the best use of some of the offers made by non-governmental organizations, which I know the Christian People's Party is very busy, along with what we give in the municipalities and hospitals. I think a lot is also about coordinating even better, because we really have a lot of good deals. It's a little pointless if there's a good offer of good quality spaces that are empty, and there's someone outside that door who really needs that help, but who doesn't get it. Then we have a way to go to connect those who need help, and those who can offer help.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e409	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e412	$85 billion is a lot of money. It's such an amount that we barely understand what it's about, but it's as much money as we spend on hospitals. We've heard that many times. But I'm not going to talk about those who have a lot of money. On the other hand, I'll talk a little bit about those who get the least of the health billions, about the poor in our country. It is the poor, drug addicts, mentally ill, homeless and people who need social assistance, who have the worst health. We're a few of them about that. They're the sickest, and they live as short as possible. There are major health differences between the rich and the poor, and the health gap seems to be increasing. It worries us in the left. My question to the Minister of Health is: Is the Minister of Health satisfied that the health gap has increased also during this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e419	I'm not satisfied that there are so many social differences in our country, which is one of the richest in the world. It must also be clear that everyone should have equivalent treatment in our healthcare system, regardless of background, gender, culture, residence and wallet. So, as the representative Ludvigsen says, it's a big challenge that it's proven to be, for example. between two cities in this city is a great difference - many years - in life. It is linked to education, background and growing-up conditions, but it is also linked to health. I was at a very interesting meeting last night at the Rikshospitalet, where this was also the theme in relation to our healthcare service. The government has also, as you know, provided a big message to reduce social inequalities. It's both about being able to continue the way we are now, with one of the very lowest levels of unemployment we've had, getting more people into work and activity, reducing the rate of social security, and giving all good growing-up conditions through kindergartens and schools. That's why we've been so clear that we want everyone who wants to get a nursery place at an age-old price, strengthen the public school that makes kids of parents who are either directors or washes in offices go to the same school. It's also about reducing social inequalities, and we also have to make sure that everyone is treated in an equivalent way in health care. There is reason to believe that it does not happen anywhere, and that is something I am discussing with those who are responsible for our hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e428	Poverty is at least the basis for major health inequalities, and poverty leads to health inequalities. It is also the case that the government went very high on the path to eradicating poverty. We in the left don't think it's as simple, barely possible, but we want to reduce health differences as much as possible. To do that, it has to be re-prioritized. We in the Left are some of those who have said here earlier today that we need to invest more in primary education. It's in the area we need to get a reinforcement to reduce the pressure on hospitals. We also believe that inequalities in health can best be mitigated in this way. It must be tough priorities and tough rounds. Is the Council of State in agreement with the Left in that priority, and is the Council of State forbidden to take these tough re-priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e438	Yes, the government is very clear that we want to do what we can, interacting with all the good forces, to reduce inequalities in our country. That was one of the main reasons why we also wanted to get so much excitement that we could take over the government power, that we would end up giving tax relief to the richest people in this country, and that we had to have more community solutions in the care of the elderly, at school, in the workplace - wherever it might be. Here there has been a tremendous improvement in the years we have been responsible for. We're not supposed to be on target, because it's not done in two and a half years. One of the things that I think are very important also to reduce social inequalities and try to prevent social heritage from being inherited all the time is not least preventive work. If we go in and look at some of the diseases that are now in strong growth, there are also social inequalities about who gets which diseases -- to some degree. Then we have to grab those kids when they're young, and then it's all about kindergarten and school.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e445	There will be three follow-up questions - first Harald Valved.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e448	It is gratifying to experience that there is a cross-political consensus that we should focus on prevention and rehabilitation and perhaps reduce treatment in the middle, so that we get the best possible use of our health crowns. As regards the weakest in society, health services often vary from municipality to municipality. This is about how we locally prioritise and care for patients in the different areas. Would it not be that if we were given a different funding system and a greater common responsibility, i.e. a state responsibility and a rights-based system, that would give a greater guarantee that all the weaker people in our society would receive equal and fair treatment in the healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e457	I mean what I've said many times, that I believe the mind is somewhat equally distributed. There are many sensible local politicians from many parties around our municipalities. I think they are well able to assess better - at least better than us who are in government, so the staging representatives get to assess themselves maritime - what is best in each municipality. That is why this government has no faith in the proposal that the Progress Party has for a new financing mechanism, which I understand should be followed more closely by patients. We believe in transferring money, as we do now, to the municipalities, and then there is a meeting between the employees, for example. in the care of the elderly, and those in need of help, that a good thing is to get the best possible help. I have no faith that we will have an order/execution model that will make this much more bureaucratic. I also believe that this way you will get poorer quality in the offer for those who need help. I think that's the opposite way we should go.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e464	Bent Höie - to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e467	The Minister of Health fully supports the fact that more money is not the answer to the general management challenges in the hospital sector, but that does not apply to the need to prioritise drug users, chroniclers and the mentally ill. There is a need for a significant capacity increase. One of the reasons why the supply of drugs to drug users is too poor is that there is a systematic different assessment of drug users in specialist healthcare than of other patients. This does not reveal the real need for an increase in treatment capacity for this group, e.g. as regards the number of breaches of the waiting list guarantee. The size has said that these patients should have the same rights as all other patients. Will the Minister of Health take action to ensure that this is now done in the specialist health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e474	This government, like the previous one in this area, has clearly informed regional health firms that people with drug problems and/or mental disorders should be given a higher priority than those with somatic disorders. It's followed up. It is absolutely necessary, given what the representative Höie also says, that people with drug problems should have the same rights to help and treatment when they need it. So we know that it doesn't work as well over everything-- I totally agree with that. That's why it's important to keep going that way. I think one of the most important things we should then be doing is getting quality into all stages of the offer we offer through voluntary organisations, municipalities and hospitals, and that we get the interaction between the different levels to work. There's a way to go. I'm completely open to that. We're not in the goal when it comes to it, but I'm optimistic. I'm sure we'll do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e479	Left - and I would also like to stress it for my own part - has seen it as a big, important political task to give voice to those who have little or no voice, not because they cannot speak, but because they do not have strong special interests in their back. Some of these are shown in statistics, but in statistics, there are people. In 2006, and in the first half of 2007, it was in the then Health East, approx. half of Health-Norway, about 20-25 pst. treatment for people with drug problems. Then they can walk to an office in Eastfold and get help. Very few walk there, because they labor so much with their lives. All of these people get away quickly in the big numbers, but their dignity is a task that becomes a test of humanity throughout our help system. My question to the Council of State is: What practical measures will she take to ensure that all these people are given a strengthened voice, so that they escape these migrations, and so that the deadlines are not reduced enough, but that they get the help they require under Norwegian health law?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e486	I fully agree with the representative Dørum that part of these people absolutely need our outstretched hand and our dignity, if you're going to use that expression. This is a sector where there are no very simple solutions. Had it been, this would probably have been solved at an earlier time, even under previous governments. I am concerned that we - and I, as the person responsible for the hospitals - must continue to say clearly that these people should be given higher priority than people within the somatic environment. Then I have to make sure that it is actually being followed up. I must also ensure, together with other good forces, the local authorities and the local authorities' Central Association, that the interaction between the different levels is improved. I recently visited the Gate Hospital in Oslo, as the representative of Dørum probably knows, and for which the government has now given more money. We also want to help them build up their own women's department there. Some of the users there said to me, that we are now finally being seen! We also need more lowthreshold services in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e495	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e498	I also want to ask a question to the Council of State Sylvia Brustad. The government promised full child care coverage and followed up with earmarked funds, and they follow developments closely. The working party promised a shiny old-age care that was followed up with many non-binding messages, but without any earmarked means. After a lot of last year's announcements about unworthy matters in the care of the elderly, the government got a Christian People's Party and the Left on an older settlement, and they gave the elderly a guarantee of dignity. The party considered this to be a worthless guarantee, completely free of financial obligations. Many municipalities are struggling financially, and we still hear and read about hospital residents locked in their rooms all night, who get a shower every 14 days, and an increasing number of mentally healthy people live with heavy psychiatric patients in hospitals. Highly nursing 90 and 100-year-olds are sent home from short-term stay in a hospital or hospital with a refusal to apply for hospital accommodation. There is widespread use of double rooms in many municipalities. Older people are caste balls between hospitals, homes and hospitals, and employees in the sector end up in frustration. We have also heard of cases of police reports of unworthy circumstances that are not followed up by management. Genderism rules the care of the elderly. Broken promises are about to become a norm. The words and promises continue to replace good care for the elderly. Norway has reached a new target of cynical policy. Older people’s policies are being devalued to a ‘value guarantee’. When a politician promises something that will cost a lot, but does not intend to do so, he or she resorts to the word ‘guarantee’. These are serious allegations, and they come from Professor Halvard Vike at the University of Oslo. I dare say that, unfortunately, very much is true in what he says. Does the Council of State believe that the quality regulation and the guarantee of dignity are being fulfilled today? And: What has the government done to improve the situation after the agreement was signed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e510	When we took over the government after the previous government, which was supported by the Progress Party, it was very crowded in many Norwegian municipalities. This did not least go beyond the offer made to the elderly. Not least, for some of the very sickest, those with dementia, an innumerable number of activities had been cut down, because the local economy was too tight. We said, "We want another way!" Instead of giving tax relief to the richest, we want to make sure that some of those who need our outstretched hand, for example. sick and elderly people who are demented get more money, better quality and more employees. That is why we promised 10,000 new annual works in this sector. Everything suggests that we're going to fulfill it, maybe overfill it. We promised a lot more money. We've invested a lot more money in this sector, so we're going to rust up the quality, and it's going to give room to spend the time that's needed for each user who needs help. We have put forward a care plan. We have submitted a health report. We have our own plan to do something about the situation with regard to demente, which I think is a neglected group, which it has been for some years. We've also made an older settlement with several parties here in Stortinget, which I'm very pleased with, and it's seaworthy that when several parties have signed it, we mean it. This will further improve the supply of older people who actually need it. I distance myself from the fact that there was going to be a cynicism going on in relation to the offer to the elderly. Everything's not perfect. No, it's not. That's why you have to step up this effort, but you also have to have a responsibility not to make scares that make people live to get old and come to hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e519	I understand very well that the Council of State is most concerned about talking about a couple of conciliations that the Advance Party had with the previous government. But now it is that the elderly care has evolved over very many years and ended up where it is today. Now we're concerned about what's going to happen in the future. My question was, in fact, what the government has done after the famous agreement, which happened three-four months ago. The Council of State said instead that the wit is equally distributed in the municipalities. In other words, you should be able to get the same amount out of completely different sums of money. It turns out that the counties, among others. Eastfold and Westfold, which receive at least transfers, which have at least free resources per year. the population has the lowest health care coverage in the country. There they don't have the same opportunity, even though they have absolutely the same knowledge, to be able to fulfill all the promises made by the Government. The government makes a lot of promises. I do not doubt that the agreement was a result of many thinking that it should be, but this is not the case without transferring the money. What has the government done after the conciliation? I could imagine knowing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e528	It's true that this government is making promises, but we're fulfilling them as well. We do that on this sector, gradually, step by step, every year. There has been a significant improvement in the last two years, not least in the annual work sector, which was among the biggest challenges I had when I traveled around the country and met users who said they would want someone to have more time for them. I met frustrated employees who said they would want them to have more time. Then I understand that the representative asked the question: What happened after the agreement with the parties in this house, except the Advance Party, was concluded in December last year? What has happened since then? The government is following up on what's in the deal. We'll get back to where we're going to come back with how we follow it up. But it's given more money for the current year. There'll be more people employed all the time. We constantly rust up the quality. We're gradually working on this. We have also introduced a new investment grant to enable municipalities to apply for it in order to build even more hospitals, including in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e535	To reach the last main question, there will be one follow-up question -- Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e538	I'm not so sure if people living in the municipalities experience it just as Sylvia Brustad describes it. The Labour Party Vice-President at Eidsvoll has launched a nationwide action against the Government because of the poor community economy - but enough about it. The right considers that increased competence is a key response to the quality challenges we face in the care sector. That is why we have proposed a promise of knowledge in the care sector. The number of unskilled workers needs to be reduced and the recruitment of nurses and doctors needs to be increased. We have also proposed an economic escalation plan to strengthen care provision, but the government parties voted down. They wouldn't commit financially. Will the Government of the Municipal Proposition present a escalation plan as a follow-up to the agreement on the elderly? It has to do if it's going to have any kind of credibility at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e547	I would just like to stress: I have not said that everything is perfect in Norwegian care for the elderly. We've seen more examples over the last year that it's not. I think we all know that personally. But I say that there has been a major improvement in relation to what was the starting point when we took over the government two years ago. Then we're going to move on that way. Then I am glad that there are several parties in this house that want to be part of it. I agree with Mr Sjöli that competence is a major challenge. That is why I also agree that we need to reduce the number of unskilled workers. We have a plan of our own to train more, to train more, and to train more, as well as in relation to apprentices. Then we have to get more doctors into the hospitals. It is one of the reasons why the government will change the tour code, which means that doctors who are in the tour must also be in the hospital. We believe that there may be one of several contributions to the fact that more people may find it interesting to work in these important positions. There is no doubt that for so sick people who are in a nursing home, more skills are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e556	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e559	After listening to this questionnaire, I have a certain understanding for most people, as it is called, who in a poll today express a record-low trust in the sitting government. It's only 16 pst. which is satisfied or quite satisfied with this government. I will relieve the Minister of Health of answering my question to this fact - I will address a question to the Minister of Defence. Now we see that security and foreign policy too is increasingly becoming an arena of strong disparity between government parties, strongly expressed in the newspapers, in a way that I believe weakens Norway's position, not least in NATO. We experience an SV leader and finance minister saying that she will go into full confrontation with NATO to stop American plans about a so-called rocket shield. On the other hand, we experience the Central Party's defence-political spokesman who says that a Norwegian veto in NATO is the same as a discharge, and we also experience dissenting views between the Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs. Now the time is approaching for NATO's summit, and my question is: Will the Government collectively add to the domestic policy-related attitudes to this issue and gather around an attitude that is in line with other NATO countries? I'm talking about the attitude to the American reason for the so-called rocket defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e568	With regard to the matter on which there has been a lot of focus in the last time from the SV manager, this is about missile defence. There is no one in this room who should be amazed at what the Government initially thinks about it. There we agree that we are skeptical of the kind of missile defense to which it is now being added on the part of the Americans. At the same time, it is also the case that the Americans are in the process of concluding bilateral agreements with Poland and the Czech Republic on this point. All questions relating to the NATO Summit or the NATO Minister for Defence or Foreign Affairs meeting shall be discussed with the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. It will also happen, of course, before the next summit. I think, with all due respect, that it must be possible to express one's disagreement when one is in a process. Similarly, in the NATO meetings, we have said that we are following the investigations that are taking place there. Then we have to take a final position when you get to that point. We're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e577	It is also fully possible, when the State Council is now standing in the Grand Duchy, to express an opinion on this issue. Foreign and security policy issues are not reserved for closed forums. My question is: is it that the Minister of Defence agrees with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who says that Russia's resistance to the missile defence does not concern the matter, or is it such that she agrees with the Minister of Finance, who believes it is important to listen to Russia in this matter? My final - and other - questions are about the Council of State now can guarantee that the Norwegian Government will not become alone and as a new footnote in NATO on this issue. After all, the Council of State stood alone with skepticism at the last meeting of the Minister of Defence in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e586	It is true that there were no other countries, no defence ministers other than me, expressing scepticism. Similarly, we know that there is skepticism in several NATO countries, but it was not reflected in the Minister of Defence meeting. With regard to Russia’s position and Russia’s argument, however, we believe that with these bilateral relations that exist, there is no reason for Russia to fear the possible isolated action that might come between the United States and Poland or the Czech Republic. But at the same time, I would say that we still stand by the attitude that we are sceptical about missile defence. We believe that what the world needs now is disarmament, a really big measure of disarmament, a common commitment to disarmament and not further upgrading, which you can easily get if you get a missile defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e594	The President will accept three follow-up questions - even if there is little time - first Per Ove Wide.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e597	For the second time today, we have experienced that the government sends a good application to NATO to get it out. This decision for which the Government has obviously intended to go in is a follow-up to what was said in connection with Yåttå earlier today; there is a letter from NATO in which they express their great scepticism that we move out of Yåttå. But to this question. The council says the government is skeptical of a rocket shield. Yeah, it's not just skeptical, it's actually mentioned in the Soria Moria statement that the government is going to work to scrape today's rocket defense plans. And that's pretty strong. So the Council of State has also done what she should have done in Vilnius. She has stated that Norway is in a special position in NATO and would like to avoid being involved in supporting a rocket defence. That's a good application to get out of NATO. Then I have to ask the Council of State: is it once again SV who is going to dictate the Government on foreign affairs and defence issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e604	I will once again reject the fact that Norway is trying to withdraw from NATO. It is a complete derailment of the debate. The debate on missile defence is a serious debate that is taking place in many countries. There are many around that are concerned about the upgrading that it can lead to. When it comes to our membership in NATO, it can't be that we're going to sit as a member and not express our view when you're in a process in a case. Then it is my duty to express the view of the Norwegian Government, which is also shared by many around, but which has not necessarily been expressed in the same way at the NATO meetings. We are not yet at the decision-making point in NATO that we have to decide whether to link NATO's missile defence to the US proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e611	Dagfinn Højbråten - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e614	There are many who have understood that there is a concern about the upgrading effect of a rocket shield in an assessment phase. However, what is the starting point of the Foss question’s question is the statements of the Prime Minister’s deputy, who says in Bergen’s Official Journal that a Norwegian veto is not excluded from these plans. It is in stark contrast to statements by the Secretary of State Espen Barth Eide, who said in an interview with NTB in December: ‘We are past the yes or no phase. The theme rocket shield is not something you can be for or against." This statement indicates that the process of which the Council of State is talking is actually being pursued. My question is: isn't it soon that Norway realizes that we are alone in protesting in NATO, and that we now need to focus our influence on the challenges in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e624	In a month's time, it's the top meeting in NATO. How far you want to go in that meeting when it comes to missile defense is not yet clear. We are still in a process towards the summit, and it must - with all due respect - be the law of a government to express the scepticism that is also expressed in our government statement. The government has not discussed veto - neither in the Government nor with the extended Foreign Affairs Committee. I want to repeat that we have been in a process. I believe that as an active and responsible member of NATO, it is also our duty to notify when we disagree, even though it is a majority view we disagree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e631	The left and I share the concerns about the missile defense plans. I have to say it. As an American politician has said, it seems to be an immature project facing an immature threat. But you have to take care of that interest and have it as, among other things, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has called a constructive dialogue, it is not a good contribution when the Minister of Finance of the Government has gone out in the Official Journal of Bergen and, at all events, has used the word ‘veto’ in the context of NATO. It's asking to be marginalised - and you don't want to be in a position to have a constructive dialogue. Now the Minister of Defense says that this has not been discussed in the Government at all, nor with the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. In my opinion, there is a sharp criticism that the Minister of Finance has chosen to use such a word, and that is a legitimate reason. Is it the case that the Minister of Defence here would like to see the word'veto' not used? And can the Minister of Defense answer the main question from Per-Christian Foss, if the Government in any way plans a footnote at the Ministerial Meeting in April on this issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e638	I experience that the Storting is trying to anticipate the events on many questions. In fact, we're still in a process, and we're in the process of an investigation, which in fact Norway has also agreed that we should carry out. At the same time, it must be right for Norway, when we also express it in our government statement, to express the scepticism of Norway in relation to the rocket shield. I think that's actually our duty when this is a view that the Government has. When it comes to how we're going to act in relation to what had to come up at the NATO summit, we have to decide on it when we see the case that lies there, and when we see what positions are. There will also, of course, be consultation in DUUK before the NATO Summit takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e647	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e652	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. - It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy. Question 4, from the representative Hanne Dyveke Sweets to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been withdrawn. Question No 8, by Mr Bård Hoksrud to the Minister for the Environment and Development, lapses because the questioner is not present. Questions 14 and 15 from the representatives of Gunnar Gunnarsen and Arne Sortevik, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 20, from the representative for the Minister of Health and Welfare, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e674	My question to the Minister of Finance is this: «Jusprofessor Bråthen claims that the regulation of the property brokerage law § 7-2 on writing the specified bill with an hourly record over time does not result from the legal proceedings of Ot.prp. No 16 was claimed to be based on a misunderstanding of the trade union service law § 36. [[2006-2007]] Will the Council of State consider changes to the regulation on this basis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e683	The Ministry of Finance has received a similar question from the Norwegian Federal Property Agency about this. The third paragraph of Section 7-2 of the Real Estate Act is as follows: ‘Depending on the agreed remuneration, the contractor shall write an invoice. The account must enable the contracting entity to assess the nature and extent of the work carried out.» Thus, it is clear from the Real Estate Act that providers of real estate brokerage services are required to write a bill irrespective of the form of remuneration agreed - commission, fixed price or hourly rate. The provisions of the real estate regulation are based, inter alia, on: Section 7-2, fifth paragraph of the Law on Real Estate. Section 7-2 of the Real Estate Code requires the bill to contain a specification of the time spent by the contractor on different phases of the contract. The requirement to write bills must also be seen in conjunction with the obligation to draw up an offer based on hourly rates - Section 7-2, second paragraph of the Act, cf. Ot. pp. No 16 for 2006-2007. In the context of the law and regulation, the bill for real estate agents services shall provide the customer with a basis for assessing the nature and extent of the work done, irrespective of whether it is agreed on an hourly or other form of remuneration. The purpose of the requirements is, inter alia, to: to contribute to increasing competition between providers of real estate brokering services. Section 36, first paragraph, first to third sentences, reads as follows: ‘The consumer may require the service provider to write an invoice. The bill shall enable the consumer to assess the nature and extent of the work and materials used. To the extent that the service has not been provided at a fixed price, the price shall also be determined.’;» Therefore, in the case of fixed-price contracts, only exemptions from the requirement to show how the price has been calculated - no derogation from the requirement to provide the consumer with a basis for assessing the nature and extent of the work done. In Ot.prp. No 16 for the 2006-2007 Ministry wrote about this, page 137: « brokers shall provide the contracting entity with an accounting report after the performance of the mission, giving a specified list of the hours and hours for which the contract has been carried out. [[...]] Such a requirement shall apply irrespective of the form of remuneration, i.e. whether the consumer chooses commission or hourly rates. Reference is made to the fact that such a rule follows from Section 36 of the Crafts Services Act, even in cases where a fixed price has been agreed.’ The majority of the financial committee joined the Ministry's proposal to the Property Law § 7-2, third paragraph. The minority, members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, opposed the proposal and considered that: ‘It is unnecessary for the trader to write the specified invoice after completion of the contract also in cases where a commission payment has been agreed’, as stated. Inner. O. No 50 for 2006-2007, pages 39-40. In my opinion, it follows the provision in the property brokerage regulation up the content and intention of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e717	I thank the Council of State for a thorough and complementary response. I perceive her answer so that the tradesman service law § 36-1, which is part of the lawmakers and a substantial part of the references in the new property brokerage law in this particular area, is central, because the Minister of Finance has referred to it on a few occasions. I also understand from the answer that the Council of State and the Department disagree with Jusprofessor Bråthen and signed in the interpretation of the Trade Unions Act and what is actually in it. Then my question about it is that the Council of State believes that the tradesman service law § 36-1 is absolutely central to the understanding of what is to be contained in the provisions resulting from the new property brokerage law in relation to this particular area.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e728	What is central to the real estate law is what the Storting has actually adopted and dealt with, and which was thoroughly explained when the matter was being dealt with both in the committee and in the Stortinget, namely that we want a stronger competition between real estate agents, and we want customers to have the opportunity to understand what they are actually paying for. We therefore want a specified bill to be given, where it also shows the time spent. That's what's central. The Stortinget had a full overview of this when the law was passed. The regulations are made in line with that. That the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left were of a different opinion, may be so. But it does not help to use the Trade Services Act as proof that in the discussion -- which was completely open, the intentions were on the table -- it was concluded as it did by the majority of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e735	Nor is it in my question that something new material has come up, but it is the understanding of the tradesman service law. I have now understood from the previous answer that one believes this was important. So there's one thing: the Real Estate Act is now well-accepted in the industry in many areas. But it is quite obvious that this very thing that a specified bill has to be made at a price that is actually agreed, contributes, I think -- at least it can do so in some situations -- to satisfy the relationship between brokers and customers. If, for a moment, we ignore the very legal thing here, doesn't the Council of State also believe that this gives an unfortunate outcome to the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e742	No, I don't mean that. If it is true that the relationship between a real estate agent and a customer is acidifying that it must actually show how many hours the real estate agent has worked on a matter, then it must be because the customer is baffling about how few hours have gone by and how much he has actually agreed to pay. We believe that this is very important consumer guidance for all customers in this market, because there has been far too little competition between real estate agents. I understand that the Norwegian Real Estate Agency wants to deal with this matter via the representative Fleet. But I would think that the representative Fleet was better served to be concerned that customers have a good overview of the market and what they actually pay for, and that it is healthy with competition, as the good Right-Man he is.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e752	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Finance: ‘SSB’s evaluation of the TAX FUNN scheme was submitted on 17 January 2008 and the evaluation report confirms that the scheme has been very successful. stimulating increased R & D in business. A krone in SkattenFUNN grants has triggered two kronor in R & D efforts from the companies. The Council of State will contribute to the continuation and extension of the TAX FUNN scheme, including: in line with the recommendations of business?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e761	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has committed itself to continuing and evaluating the tax FUNN. As the representative of Dørum points out, the evaluation work of the SSB was recently completed. The SSB’s evaluation shows that the tax FUNN operates mainly as intended. It triggers more R & D in business. Nevertheless, the growth in total R & D expenditure in industry has been modest since 2002, and industrial R & D expenditure as a proportion of GDP has actually fallen. Furthermore, the tax FUNN does not appear to contribute to innovations in terms of patenting or new products for the market. The SSB considers that the main features of the FUNN should be continued, but nevertheless proposes some amendments, including the conversion of the scheme into a grant scheme. The assessment by the SSB of the TaxFUNN consists of a number of interim reports. Now we're going to take the time to go through this material properly before any changes to the system are proposed. In the follow-up work, we will also assess the perceptions of business. I intend to return to Stortinget on this matter in connection with the 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e772	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We agree that it is important to increase research and development efforts in business. The tax FUNN scheme does not target the large industrial locomotives, it targets the many small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway. The left believes that there is not one instrument that will lead to business increasing its research and development efforts, but many instruments. We are also of the opinion that it is very important that the instruments are good for them. If the Council of State is open in the evaluation to be carried out, the tax FUNN scheme, which is currently built on a tax incentive rather than a purely grant scheme, may continue to be so, inter alia. in order for it to operate as low a bureaucratic function as possible for this type of enterprise that is just being reached by this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e786	I am, of course, open to the idea that, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, the tax FUNN scheme should be continued and evaluated. But there's interesting information about the reports that SSB has now delivered, which it's important to bring with it. For our goal - and I expect that to be Dørum's and my common goal - is that we get the greatest possible research and development effect out of the public finances we use. Then is our discussion on how to address this through the TaxFUNN scheme, possibly other schemes, and possibly through improvements or changes to the TaxFUNN scheme, so that the overall effort is as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e791	Of course, the Council of State and I agree that we're going to try to get more out of business, and here there's a difference between, for example. the centres we have for research-driven innovation, and e.g. what we have seen in Oslo at the meeting place between advanced scientific research and business, as we have seen in particular. in Oslo Cancer Cluster, which is top research, basic research, applied research, and which results in advanced business. Of course, it is also important what happens in the major locomotives in Norway, whether it is StatoilHydro or what activity it is. But the great undergrowth of Norwegian industry is a series of small and medium-sized enterprises, and they are not in the usual meeting places where the others are. They don't have the capacity to do that, but they can just get the energy out by making the arrangements as good as possible. And since I have a Council of State background, as the Minister of Finance now firmly acquires his own, we know very well the Department of Finance's aversion to all tax incentives. But I would strongly encourage the Council of State to think about it just in order to reach the many small and medium-sized enterprises, because their reality is not drawn in the way that the big ones can draw and that can be achieved through the other instruments. That's why I'm arguing about it. Then I expect the Minister of Finance to take care of the proceeds at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e796	I'm fully aware that the reality of R & D looks different for small businesses than for large companies. Nor do I have any special aversion to any tools. My allegiance is primarily to the goal: to have tools that encourage business, whether small or large, to invest in research and development. If a tax regime is best suited for that purpose, it is a good instrument. If, instead - as a supplement, or as perhaps the most important part, but where a tax regime can also be introduced - grant schemes are the main instruments, it makes sense. But I think it's very wise in politics that you don't marry the tools, but the goals, and that's why I have a pragmatic relationship with how to design these best.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e804	This question, from the representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e807	The question is: ‘Norway has chosen to be outside Euratom through the EEA Agreement. This means that Norway is outside EU programmes dealing with, inter alia, nuclear safety, radiation protection, the dissemination of radioactive material and natural radioactivity. Several researchers are now recommending Norwegian membership of Euratom and believe that this should be done independently of politicians' position on nuclear power. The Thorium Committee has also recommended that Norway engage more in nuclear research. Will the Government initiate Norwegian membership of Euratom?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e816	It is true that the Thorium Selection in its report, which the Minister for Oil and Energy got out of hand on 15 February, has advised Norway to engage more in nuclear research. The Thorium selection was commissioned to develop a knowledge base on possibilities and risks associated with the use of thorium for energy production in the long term. One of the recommendations for the selection was that Norway should report to Euratom. Norway is already participating in activities within Euratom known as third countries. There we participated in research activities that cover radiation protection and waste management. This means that Norway took part in Euratom's activities - those that are most relevant to us in the context of nuclear power. Any more formal participation in Euratom must be seen in the light of our nuclear energy policy. Participation will also be expensive and must be seen in conjunction with our research efforts otherwise. The government has its clear priorities before the deployment of new renewable energy such as bioenergy, wind and marine wind turbines, as well as that we will focus on energy efficiency improvement. It's also here that we want to put the pressure in for energy research. We also allow significant resources to realise technology associated with carbon capture and storage. So now the Thorium Selection has delivered its report, among other things. the issue of Euratom registration is raised. This report has been sent on a hearing on 31 May. The government will then decide on the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e831	I thank you for your answer. Although Norway is currently able to participate in some of Euratom's research areas, almost all the environments in Norway that are involved in this, both the Institute of Energy Engineering, the University of Oslo, the University of Bergen, etc., say that Norway is still outside many of the important areas because we are not a member. Switzerland is also not a member of the EU, but is an associated member of Euratom. This gives them a foot in terms of what is happening, even if it is not planned to build nuclear power plants in Switzerland. So this isn't necessarily a nuclear question, but it's about being involved and taking responsibility for the developments that happen. The work in Euratom includes both the development of generation 4 of nuclear power plants, where one has no waste problems, and one has taken care of safety, one has taken care of very many of the challenges, as well as a look at fusion technology. The question will then be: Will the Government at least ensure that the report of the Thorium Committee is the subject of debate in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e836	When the hearing period is over, and when the hearing announcements have been processed, the Government will consider how the selection will be followed. But let me stress: although Norway today is not a formal participant in Euratom, Norway participates as a third country. This means that Norwegian researchers have the possibility to participate on project-based projects. However, the fact that Norwegian institutions do not receive financial support from the EU also means that there are six departments with funds, one million. kr each, to finance Norwegian participation in the project that we have thought is relevant to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e841	Thanks for the answer again. The same researchers say that the commitment we have today is not enough, and that the Norwegian environment is going to suffer. One does not have a competence in Norway to give us the knowledge we need, considering that all our neighbouring countries, except Denmark, have nuclear power plants, and that many neighbouring countries want to build new or to increase the capacity of existing nuclear power plants. Then we have a self-interest in being part of and contributing to research and development at nuclear power plants, and issues related to it, being the best possible, so that we do not get hurt if accidents happen elsewhere, as a result of the fact that they don't like to have the technology they could have had if more people were involved and contributing. The report of the Thorium Committee is out for consultation, and everyone is happy that it is at the hearing. I think that is also good, but I should like the Government to be a little clearer that it also wants a political debate. Why does a sample drop if one does not also want to have a public debate on this afterwards? So I ask the Council of State to take another round on it. Will there be a debate on this at the end of the day at Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e850	Questions related to nuclear power were addressed in depth in the 1970s. The construction of nuclear power was not supported by the Stortinget treatment, and nuclear power has not been a real alternative in the Norwegian energy supply since then. The two nuclear reactors in Halden and Kjeller are only research reactors that are used to increase the safety of nuclear power in general and to further develop research competence in the field. The government's policy is firm. This means that there are no plans to allow the construction of nuclear power plants in Norway. At the same time, the selection setting is on the right, and the Government will then consider how the recommendations will be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e869	This question is drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e875	‘There is now evidence that Hamas is systematically agitating for violence, terror and killing, and for peace processes, through its child TV organisation in Gaza. The government has been in contact with Hamas at a high political level. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs now respond strongly to Hamas’ abuse of child TV to spread hatred against Jews, Israel and the West, to encourage suicide campaigns, to counter peace negotiations, and now last but not least to call for the killing of Danish citizens?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e882	Let me first stress that the government is taking a great deal of distance from this television program that spreads hatred and encourages violence. I find it particularly outrageous that the program is primarily directed at children. Norway is not currently in regular political contact with Hamas. We are dealing with the Palestinian government in Ramallah, and it does not have the opportunity to intervene against these shipments in Gaza. Hamas, which is responsible for this programme, has its political focus in Gaza after the takeover of power with violence there last year. Parts of the management are elsewhere in Damascus. Norway maintains the view that Hamas must comply with the international community’s demand for recognition of Israel’s right to exist and refrain from the use of violence. At the same time, it is Norwegian policy to be in dialogue with all parties in the Middle East. That's how it's been for many years. Therefore, Norway maintains the link with Hamas at the level of office, if necessary, in the region. We have in this dialogue, for example: made it clear what international society expects of Hamas. We have made a public statement about this TV programme. We have reason to believe that this has come to Hamas' attention. Norwegian representatives will, on the next natural occasion, without me saying when it comes to it, address this mentioned television programme and encourage Hamas to stop it and corresponding hateful messages. Norway will also continue to encourage Hamas to leave the power of Gaza to the Palestinian Authority, to declare violence against Israel and to join the political process.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e891	I thank the Council of State for your answer. What has shocked so many is that children, and children's programs, are used in such a raw and cynical way. Children's programmes should be a free zone. Now I'm asking that the Council of State might be a little bit more precise. Is it so that one has protested against Palestinian regimes, so that they can pass this on to Hamas? It was a little unclear to me what was actually done here. I mean that Norway has to be crystal clear that this is something that we don't accept. Then it's not enough that we just say that we're responding to this, but that we're doing something special, but that we're using every means to figure out that this isn't a civilised society worthy of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e900	Both my State Secretary and I have spoken publicly about this. That's why I'm saying there's reason to think it's Hamas for ear. It is otherwise paradoxical that the representative Sørfonn, who is very sceptical of any contact with Hamas, is now concerned about how we are in contact with Hamas to communicate this. I have then said that I think they follow what we say, and that they have noticed what we have said. On the next natural occasion, which I cannot say when is, because we do not have political contact with this organization, our representatives will address this. Palestinian self-government authorities are aware of what we think about this. I think we have noticed that there is now a drama in the Middle East between Palestinian groups, which actually overshadows even this occasion, even though it is serious, and where the contact between the self-government authorities and Hamas, between Fatah and Hamas and the various Palestinian groups, is in a dramatic situation. But as I said, I don't think there's any doubt about what the Norwegian view is, and it's communicated to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e907	I think we're some people who think that the dialogue line, that people talk to each other, is one of the most important premises for resolving conflicts. Even when we had - we should say - a little bit of a discussion a year ago, when the Norwegian government approved the assembly government, it was a question of what one meant that the government parties were talking to representatives of Hamas. If I don't think completely wrong, we said that it's always wise that people talk, we don't put ourselves in who's talking to who. But what's important here is that this Norwegian protest is so clear that he comes to Hamas in an extravagant way, because we know that Norway has had and has great respect in the Middle East and the Middle East conflict. So the vote to Norway is being listened to, perhaps in front of many other voices, and that's why we're so busy that the Norwegian voice, the Norwegian birthright, is going to be crystal clear, and that she's going to reach Hamas.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e912	I can only say that I think Norway's voice is largely clear, and that is what we put into the foreign policy. As I said, I have voiced myself for an open microphone about this, and most organisations that Norway is in contact with also follow what is happening in this debate. On a natural occasion for conversation with that organisation - it is not a regular contact - we will ensure that this view is communicated in a clear and unambiguous manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e920	"According to Stavanger Aftenblad, February 27th, a figure of 80 million has been presented. crowns as annual savings on moving the Joint Operational Headquarters from Jåttå to Retan, in an internal note to the Workers' Group. Is this figure derived from the external quality assurance of the defence study and will the outcome of the external quality assurance calculations in FS07 be made available to the entire Size at the same time?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e927	The Government has not yet reached any final conclusions on the future arrangement of the defence structure. This means that key assumptions, including economic calculations and bases, remain to be assessed. In this context, there is also an external quality assurance of key economic calculations. The result of this quality assurance will, of course, be made available to Storting when the proposition is presented. Particular attention will be paid to ensuring that the recommendations to be made to the Storting are comprehensive and robust. In such a context, it will be necessary to assess both security and defence policy, operational, economic and a number of other considerations. This will also include a regional and regional impact assessment. The government is concerned that the size should have a good and correct basis for its treatment of the long-term proposition. First, however, the Government must complete its work on the proposition and on the basis of the recommendations to be actually promoted by the Storting. Before this, I do not think it appropriate to go out and decide on specific items piece by piece and piece, or to comment on individual numbers that are reproduced in the press or in other contexts. For the Government, it is important that the basic structure of the defence is structured in such a way that the defence can best perform its tasks. The Government will strive for solutions that meet the necessary needs of the defence as far as possible, including both the need to ensure robust and sustainable professional environments and the ability to be able to be present quickly with the right capabilities where they are needed. Once the Government has submitted the long-term proposal to the Stortinget, the Ministry of Defence will, of course, be prepared to answer all the questions that the Stortinget may have in relation to the proposals that are then presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e940	The Minister of Defence said that the Storting should be presented with these figures when the proposition is presented. Through the media, we have been informed that the government parties’ large-scale groups are now dealing with these issues on an ongoing basis. Does it mean that none of the major groups of government parties, including the Workers' Party's grouping, would have had access to the quality-assured background figures when they gave the Government their position on these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e945	In this work, there are many proposals, and the representative Höie will also have seen from the Chief of Defence's study. There are many proposals that need to be considered. But I also want to stress that in this case nothing is decided until everything is decided – until the whole structure is in place. As regards external quality assurance of figures relating to proposals that may be promoted, it is now in progress and will, of course, be made available when the proposal is submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e952	The Minister of Defence was not close to answering my question. We are all aware that the large groups of the government parties are taking their stand on this matter on an ongoing basis. The Minister of Defence has now confirmed that quality assurance figures will be provided for an overall increase when the proposition is presented. It must mean that the large groups of government parties have not had access to the quality guaranteed figures when making their decisions leading to the Government’s decision. If it is that they have the quality-assured figures available, it means that the Minister of Defence provides some of the Stortinget information that the rest of the Stortinget does not have access to. I don't expect the Minister of Defense to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e960	I said everything was for external quality assurance. This means that the numbers are not yet available, either for me or for anyone in the Stortinget. The figures that have been available in the past have been figures based on the head of defense's input, the Chief of Defense's study. I would like to stress that no matter what may come from leakages in the media, or whatever it may be, this matter is presented by the Government, and only then can we see what proposal we finally put into focus. All aspects of this, as I said in my reply, will then come before the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e970	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The defence does not seem to have an overview of Norwegian ordered damage and soldiers who have been in international service. Will the Council of State ensure that such an overview exists and thus contribute to reducing the number of sensitivities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e979	The defense has an overview of orders and soldiers injured in foreign service. Like the civil health service, defence medical personnel are obliged to document any treatment provided. Information from the electronic medical records shall be transferred to the Defence Health Register. Older paper records have been made more easily accessible by now scanning them electronically. In this way, the Defense has recorded the relevant health information for the individual soldier - and command - who has served abroad. Furthermore, we have statistical information available through the Defence Health Register at an aggregated level on a range of health and service-related issues. In addition, the health record provides for the possibility to document relationships between service relationships, exposure to incidents and consequences for future health. I am sure that today there is a thorough record of all the relevant health information for soldiers and officers who have carried out foreign service. However, we must recognise that registration in the defence electronic patient records has previously had some weaknesses. For individuals, the Defender has information about the treatment provided by the Defense Medical Staff. Paper records and scanned documents in the electronic patient records are not immediately available for statistical processing. This means that, in terms of time-reduction conditions, it will be necessary to identify general health conditions for this group. Defence is constantly working to improve technical solutions to ensure that all health data are stored electronically. I would like to stress that it is very important to provide good and predictable healthcare to our soldiers, and to ensure that all medical treatment for injuries is documented in accordance with the requirements. The health information provided by the Defence Health Register gives the Defence a good opportunity to transfer experience and develop good health, environmental and safety measures. This health register is under constant development and is an important tool in the work to ensure the highest possible level of safety and follow-up for our personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e988	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now the answer was somewhat different from what I thought the Council of State would answer, because I have been informed that there is no overview, at least there is a lack of overview. It probably confirms the Council of State in so far as she says that the registration has certain weaknesses. Now I don't know what the Council of State means by ‘certain weaknesses’, but at least it says that it's not good enough, and the Council of State says it's going to get better. But then I want to ask in more detail: what are ‘certain weaknesses’, and how far can you go back because the defense has 100 pst. good enough overview of this? Because it's very important to have an overview of those who are injured in international missions. As we send soldiers out -- it's become quite a lot over the years -- it also becomes tougher and tougher to be a soldier. You experience a completely different everyday life, of course. You experience war in everyday life. You're out in sharp jobs, and you get hurt, you can get hurt, or you see others get hurt.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e997	It is such that this health record has been kept manually and electronically later. Also, when keeping a health register electronically, there is a trend over time in parts of the health register where statistical data can be kept. The health record today has a good quality, but just to what date you have to go back in time for it to be 100 pst. is also dependent on the development of such a health register. What is important today is keeping a health register with a flexibility that allows you to obtain information. The Health Register also does, as has been said, that better prevention is possible in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1004	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I believe the Council of State and I have a common goal that this will be as good as possible, so that you can help both soldiers, command and, possibly, civilians who have also been out, with the damage they get later. So I'm thinking about late injuries -- not necessarily just physical damage, but also mental damage. Of course, there are such sensitivities that come after a while, or may come after a while. Such a register is very important, and it must be so 100 pst in quality terms. well as possible, so I believe the Council of State and I have a common goal there -- of course. In conclusion, I just want to ask you how it goes with Bæria. Of course, it's a term in this case of sensitising. So if the Council of State could think of answering that in addition, it would be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1013	After all, a decision was made to buy Bäeria just before Christmas, as far as I can remember - it was at that time, or around the turn of the year. It is a process and an acquisition that you work with, as far as I am aware, but I can come back to the representative of Bredvold with a more exact answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1030	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1036	‘The causes of deforestation may be complex and may be due to conditions outside the forest sector, such as weak regulation/corruption and underdevelopment. This suggests that the criteria for using SEK 3 billion annually to prevent deforestation in tropical rainforests are not only short-term reductions in wood harvested but also longer-term development goals. Better governance, poverty reduction and alternatives to forestry are key. What concrete action will the Government take to promote the use of forest billions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1043	First, I would like to thank the asker for a very important and central question that will be completely fundamental throughout our thinking about the forestry effort further. It has an environmental objective, namely to contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions. Another environmental objective is to ensure natural diversity in some of the most important areas of the world. Of course, it also has a developmental objective, as rainforest and forestland are some of the poorest countries in the world. Firstly, we need a global regime and a global regulatory framework, where emissions from rainforest enter into a global climate regime after 2012, but agreed at the conference in 2009. As part of this, you need global structures that can certify the agreements you get. And what will work in the long run is the kind of global agreement. And what will work in the long run is the kind of global agreement. In addition, on the way there, we need to make agreements with individual countries and also with global institutions - it could be the United Nations system or the World Bank - where it must be essential to ensure a link between the money coming out and measurable emission reduction. If you spread money thinly around many of the good single projects, you'll never get the measurable reduction in emissions that we're after. The measures that were seen to have to be implemented in practice, I think, are a mix of development programmes to ensure that those who are cutting down forests today get alternative employment and other good jobs. Many of them simply do it to support their family by, for example, the production of soya or bovine animals. At the end of the day, police action will always have to be taken to ensure that the laws and regulations put in place are complied with. In addition, satellite images and other things must be used to monitor that the agreements concluded actually lead to a reduction in deforestation. So this is a very complicated area. We will next week, hopefully, hire the head of this project, who will then advise the Government. Of course, we will present everything to the Stortinget, and we will have ample opportunity to discuss this in many crossroads in the future. But it's a mix of a global regime, agreements with important rainforest countries and agreements with global institutions such as the World Bank and the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1059	For the Left as a social liberal party, it is important to provide assistance to promote the governance and ownership of the recipient countries of their own development. I believe that this is also important in terms of the rainforest billions. They should not be used to give the recipient country the impression that small Norway is most concerned with its own CO2 account. Furthermore, the management of rainforest billions should not be so tight that the authorities of the recipient countries end up as statisticians in this system. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State what the Government will actually do to ensure that the recipient countries get the necessary ownership of forest protection and development that the forest billions are going to promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1069	I couldn't agree more. I would say it even stronger -- and that without being a social liberal: unless the government of a country or the national authorities takes control of this important area, nothing will work. To take a practical example: you can give money to protect forests in Sumatra, but if Indonesia's leaders don't take any responsibility, the forest deforestation will just move to New Guinea or Borneo. You can protect the forest in a part of the Amazon in Brazil, but if the government of Brazil does not take overall responsibility, the stallion will only move to another location. You are completely dependent on national plans as the basic element. The countries that have so far, at least to me, presented the most convincing national plans are Brazil and Papua New Guinea. The latter country, I would say, is quite impressive to be such a small and resource-efficient country. The basic plan of our further rainforest action must be national plans in each country, as the questioner asks, in combination with global structures of the World Bank or the United Nations. Norway shall not take control of it itself, but contribute to these structures.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1078	After pressure from, for example: On the left, these rain forest billions have joined the climate agreement with the Government. EUR 3 billion a year is quite a significant amount to be spent, and it is assumed that the increased effort to combat deforestation and climate action in developing countries will not be at the expense of current Norwegian efforts to combat international poverty. Yesterday's climate debate raised questions as to whether these three billion could be used in the current year. There is a dilemma between this short-term measure and the long-term measures. Can the Council of State say anything about how he will solve this dilemma?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1085	The government and I want to spend the money as quickly as possible, because it is urgent to get this going. But it'll be a total bombardment for all of us if we spend the money on things that end up in corruption or outrage, and if the results that we want to get together are not produced. We're going to get to Stortinget as soon as possible, and spend money, but only if it's in a proper way, otherwise it'll be a boomerang back to us all. We have to build this project gradually, but the ambition is to be able to spend NOK 3 billion annually as quickly as possible. If it is possible to do so this year or in 2009, it is a different matter. We also need to launch some pilot projects to gain experience. Some of the countries we're talking about, especially the Africans, are countries that are at war, in conflict, and some of them will score very, very high on an index of the world's most corrupt countries -- in other words, very difficult countries to work in, and countries Norway can work most easily through multilateral institutions such as the United Nations and the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1095	It is nice that the Minister for the Environment is in Norway so I can ask him a question like this once in a while. I've tried a couple of times. My question is: ‘The level of conflict between traditional use of the field and wild game is increasing in large parts of the country. Demarcation of large land areas has been attempted in some areas. These are major, ugly interventions in the outfield with much greater visibility and consequences than most other interventions. Nevertheless, these interventions do not appear to be dealt with by the same scepticism as by other economic measures in the outlying countries. What analysis has the Council of State provided for this policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1104	Let me just first say that I'm going to do what I can for the representative Gundersen to get answers to predatory game questions, which are frequently asked. If I am not present, of course another answer to the question on behalf of the Government. We set up that way of answering, and then Gundersen either has to wait, if I'm abroad, or let another answer. As far as the issue is concerned, Gundersen is very well aware of the two-part objective we have. On the one hand, in line with the agreement of the Stortinge, we want to take care of the four major predatory species in Norway. On the other hand, we want to facilitate the agricultural industry, for example. with grazing areas for ovine and bovine animals and others likely to be threatened by predators. This difficult combination creates conflicts and local problems. There's no reason to hide. One of the ways in which this has been addressed has been to address this issue. It has also been among the instruments that have often been required by the rural community itself. But like all other instruments, it is not without problems and controversy. Our opinion is that this has been a successful tool up to several places. It is an instrument that distinguishes large predators from sheep in time and space, and one has been able to arrange it so that it does not lead to other major problems. You can take it down in winter, and it turns out deer can skip. Overall, it works, but it is an instrument that requires extensive and thorough planning in advance. It is important to ensure close dialogue with landowners, cultural heritage authorities and other local parties. The challenges we're facing here, we're going to try to meet at the best of our knowledge. Goats can be an aesthetic problem and can lead to disadvantages for others. On the other hand, it has proved to be a good tool for reducing local conflicts. I am convinced that the representative, Gundersen, whom I am committed to ensuring that we get into an administrative regime for predators - in line with the wishes of the Right - that minimizes the local conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1115	Yes, we agree. But if the Environment Minister thinks that this reduces the conflicts, I think he's really wrong. This is a measure that is aimed in a way at one of the relevant interests in the case of predatory game. I have here a picture of a fence built through the field. It's kind of like seeing a road, but in addition, it's a three-foot fence that goes through the field. A lot of the traditional values associated with the field are removed in order to protect a small interest in the conflict area. I have received an e-mail from a man who is affected: ‘From Skasen in the west to Rotna in the east, our property is ‘hudden in’ by a state project without any information or notice.’ So he has not received a close-up notice and is directly affected. If I were to build a road over my property, environmental protection interests would have included it with much greater interest. Does the Minister for the Environment not see that this is a fairly broad issue that needs to be addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1129	First, I know it's my job to answer -- and not Gundersens. However, I would challenge him to participate in a constructive dialogue on how we can achieve the two objectives that both the Right and the Left - that is, both the Right and the Government - have agreed: to manage the four major predatory species in line with our international commitments, so that we have viable strains of these, while minimising the local conflicts associated with the outreach industries. It's a common project. The whole thing has come together about it, both right and right has come together about it. Let's get on the table all the ideas that can realize this in a constructive way! As far as fences are concerned, we have received a number of demands from different districts to build them - one feels that it has been an important tool. But of course, we are prepared to look at those places where the use of fences might have to lead to disadvantages that are out of proportion to the positive. In many places, fences have been a constructive tool for reducing conflicts. If there are problems associated with fences, we have to look at them.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1136	That, I think, was a constructive answer. The first thing the Minister for the Environment should do was sit down and see that in the areas that are most affected, actual interests, values and rights are lost. Then you would take it seriously. This has not been done in the case of Norwegian wild game policy. If the Minister for the Environment and I agreed that it could be a basis, one would have begun to address the issue in a completely different way. I think you could have significantly reduced the level of conflict with the local population by just recognising that this is a burden. When we, who are affected by this, read in the Evening Post about a red reef that has crossed over a slumber plant right outside Oslo City, and that it has to be removed because it is dangerous for children, we realize that these are people who have made a policy that they themselves are not affected by, and that leads to the loss of a lot of values in our outfield. If the Environment Minister recognised it and laid a foundation on that basis, I think we would have a completely different perspective to build on.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1145	Again, there's nothing I want more than to have a dialogue on these questions. However, the basis for that dialogue must be the breeding agreement of the Stortinge, which requires that we ensure the species of predators in Norway. On the basis of that, nothing is better than to have a dialogue on how to reduce conflicts and disadvantages. That there may be disadvantages with a fence in the same way that there may be disadvantages with a road, is absolutely obvious, as I see it. Yesterday there was a debate in the Stortingen on roads. These are advantages and disadvantages. It could also be with fences. We are more than interested in being made aware of places where fences may lead to unreasonable disadvantages. The aim of fences is to mitigate conflicts and to achieve a balanced development in both outdoor and predatory activities. If fences lead to further conflicts instead of relieving conflicts, the intention is gone. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1155	‘The Government’s proposal for a national allocation plan for the allowance trading system for the period 2008-2012 allocates free allowances to Naturkraft installations on Kårstø. The annual emissions of the gas power plant are 1,239 million. tonnes of CO2. In the plan Kårstø gets approx. 80 per cent of emissions free of charge, which gives them 991000 tonnes of CO2 allowances per year. The Kårstø plant has been stationary for many weeks due to this. low prices in the market. The quota price of EUR 20 may give Kårstø a good profit for resale. How will the Council of State deal with the resale of such free allowances?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1168	First of all, I would like to be noted that the Kårstø plant is a plant that I have been skeptical all along, and we are now trying to make the best of the situation there. Secondly, it is, of course, very important - as the questioner asks - to reduce the number of free allowances and to a maximum extent have paid allowances. Norway has gone ahead. We have fewer free quotas than the EU. Fortunately, developments in the EU appear to be moving towards fewer free allowances, so that from 2012, hopefully we will have a non-free quota regime. In the case of Kårstø, allowances are not distributed. I am not saying that it cannot come, but so far it is set by ‘a quota reserve for new gas power plants to be based on purification, and high-efficiency, concessional cogeneration plants’. A draft regulation proposes the establishment of an allowance of 9 million allowances for the 2008-2012 period for this purpose. The regulation has not yet been laid down. It is therefore not clear how the allocation to the individual power plant will be, and I cannot, of course, in Stortinget foreshadow an application procedure where it is SFT that is to be recorded upon application. So to the principle of this question, I don't think negative of selling the quotas. The opposite would lead to a much more dangerous situation, because it would mean that there was no incentive to reduce emissions. The fact that an allowance can be sold, whether given free of charge or purchased, is in itself an important incentive to reduce own emissions, because a large profit is gained from reducing emissions. So the fact that the allowances are sellable has to be positive. I hope we can agree on that. Then you can have a discussion about whether they should be distributed free of charge or should be purchased. But whether they are purchased or obtained free of charge, they must be available for sale, so that there is a strong incentive to reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1179	I thank you for your answer. The fact that Kårstø stands still is good for the environment, because then no environmental gases are released. But the fact that they sell the allowances they have received free of charge makes it possible for others to increase their climate emissions. This can lead to a negative gain in climate accounting. The Christian People's Party is for you to preferably clean yourself, but then this with quotas has come in. The polluter-pays principle is broken here when the government applies for free allowances to Kårstø - whether they become so or so large. I have the following questions: does the Council see the problem that the State double-subsidizes by obtaining free allowances that you can then sell? And also that if there are too many allowances in the quota system, the quota system won't be tight enough, and we can't develop technology that will bring down pollution instead of buying quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1190	The last is of course a very central point, because the tightness of the allowance system determines the price. Now it's not Norwegian allowances that determine the price. It is the European allowance price that is crucial here. But yes, it's definitely important that the quota system is so tight that the price of the allowances goes up, and so you get a much stronger incentive to reduce emissions. This is now within the maximum limit set on Norwegian quotas, so whether they are given here or there is therefore of no relevance to the overall emission. There is every reason to keep the number of free allowances in check and to ensure that allowances are purchased. But whether they're published free of charge or they're bought, they have to be sellable, because that's the very purpose of getting a strong incentive to reduce emissions. If you were to get there that when the power plant at Kårstø is standing still, it would be an economic incentive through the quota system to make it go, it would be the exact opposite of that both Line Henriette Holten Heimdal and I want.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1199	In order to have a tight quota market, which we are busy with, could it be for the Council of State to scrap some of our quotas, and that we add up to a policy where Kårstø and others who are going to get free allowances get a proper number? They have applied for 7500 operating hours in 2008. The facility has already been quiet for a few weeks, and they don't need all these hours when we're already in March. Then the question is, shouldn't we go in to keep the quota market as tight as possible, and rather go ahead like a leading country and scrap quotas to get the price up, so that we get up technology that makes us manage to bring down the climate emissions, which is our purpose?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1206	It is clear that there is an important question where to add the total number of Norwegian allowances. That is the seventh and last political decision. But one should remember that we've put it very tight on the Norwegian side. We are absolutely at the top of Europe. First, we have a small number of allowances, and then we have a high level of payment for these allowances, compared to other European countries. So we're already going ahead, as the asker asked. I have also recorded no major disagreement as to where the total number of allowances should be located.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1215	‘The dumping of venom sludge at the Malmøykalven in the inner Oslofjord is a constant workbow. The latest development is that the State's pollution control authorities have notified Oslo Port and Secora to the police because the sludge has been dumped in contravention of the assumptions. Furthermore, the municipality of Nesodden has repealed the scheme of dumping. What effect does the Council of State think this should have on the ongoing poison sludge dumping at the Malmøykalven?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1222	The project ‘Ren Oslofjord’ shall be an environmental project. I am therefore, of course, very concerned that the deposit of contaminated mass in the deep water landfill is being carried out as provided for in the permit. It is, to say it very, very kind and kind, very unfortunate that there has been illegal dumping of contaminated masses in the deep-water landfill. Now that the State's pollution authorities have reported Oslo Havn and Secora AS to the police, it is clear that this type of permit breach cannot be tolerated and is something we both regret and strongly distance ourselves from. Now it is also part of the story that the Norwegian Institute of Water Research has concluded that illegal dumping has not had serious environmental consequences. The limit for the total emissions allowed has not been exceeded. It does not mean, however, any form of acceptance for what has happened. It also helps to raise doubts about the regime when that type of breach occurs. I have every reason to be confident that the State pollution control will continue to follow this matter closely, and that they will react if anything goes against the permit, as they have done up to now. I take note that the municipality of Nesodden has decided to repeal the regulation plan for the deep water landfill. Oslo Havn is authorised by the State pollution control authority to continue its deposit independently of the decision of the City Council of Nesodden. The County of Oslo and Akershus and the Municipality of Oslo have raised objections to the repeal of the regulatory plan, and the case could therefore be brought to the Ministry of the Environment for decision. I can therefore not say anything about what the outcome of this had to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1235	The Council of State stated that the title of this project is ‘Ren Oslofjord’. The problem is that for the people affected by this, this now appears to be more and more a joke. It is quite incomprehensible to me that we have agreed - not to add the Minister for the Environment and Development - to a landfill in the sea, when we had safe alternatives on land. Then I am aware that the citizens' initiative at the Nesodden - and this is not people who work for themselves and grind their own cake, they are concerned about something outside of themselves, namely the environment - are in dialogue with the Ministry of the Environment both in terms of the monitoring method and the results and consequences of the dumping that is taking place. My question is: Will this dialogue be continued with the citizens' initiative in order to reach an agreement on the facts in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1244	Let me first say, which also indicates that this is a difficult thing, which I have inherited. It's simply a very difficult thing to handle. One of the reasons is that there are two respectable environments facing each other. One is the professional expertise held by the State pollution authorities and a number of other state agencies. Their perception is that monitoring is satisfactory and that the analyses obtained show that the project does not have any negative environmental impact overall. At the same time, I have the greatest respect - I have met the rapporteur on the Nesodden and a number of speakers for the citizens' initiative - for the alternative professional expertise they possess. It can never be that the state agencies possess the pure truth. We - the Ministry of the Environment and other state agencies - have made mistakes in the past, so it is incredibly important that alternative points of view are also raised. What I'm trying to encourage is that the different professional environments meet as much as possible to exchange views and see if it is possible to develop common professional views on what is right to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1256	I interpret it as meaning that the Minister for the Environment will continue the dialogue with the citizens' initiative, the municipality and others who have clear views on this, and who feel that the monitoring that is taking place does not bring about the emissions that they believe are actually happening. And there is also reason to remember that a similar project in Gothenburg revealed that no leaks were caught. Then I would like to remind you that the monitoring you say is satisfactory, not the monitoring that revealed what is now reported to the police. It was a completely different, a warning, that actually did. It says something about the complexity and the challenges in this for the Council of State. But as I said, I just want to make it clear that the dialogue is going to continue, and that it is open to us that there may be different conclusions to those that have been so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1268	The answer to that is a very clear yes. It's really no longer to add, but I can add a slightly larger, general consideration. I have absolute confidence in the State's pollution control system and the state control systems we have, in our own department in the Ministry of the Environment - in short, to the entire control system we have. On the other hand, all historical experience suggests that even the best public agencies have made mistakes. In most cases you're right, sometimes you're wrong. That is why it is important in all cases - not just this one, but in all cases - to develop alternative expertise, that citizens study what is done, acquire knowledge, bring in alternative experts, whether from Norway or abroad. And these should also be heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1278	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘The business community in Norway is experiencing a burdensome form load from the public. According to an overview from the Task Register, 12 new forms were registered in 2007. Does the Council of State consider it important to reduce the burden of forms for business and, where appropriate, to reduce the number of forms to which business has to relate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1287	It is correct that the representative Fostervold has brought with him that twelve new forms were registered in the Task Register last year. The representative obviously did not receive it is that 11 forms were also removed, so that the net figure is one more form in 2007. The number of forms goes up and down from year to year and alone is not a good measure of progress in simplification. We can quickly reduce the number of forms by, for example: to aggregate the forms relating to the declaration of self-declaration for traders. Such a change would result in a reduction in the number of forms of approx. 10 pst., but for the users it would be beyond disaster. Several form variants mean that businesses are given better adapted forms, making reporting easier and time-saving. Therefore, focusing on the number of forms alone is a misleading simplification objective. Or, in another way, the representative Fostervold's approach is simply too schematic. Of course, I agree that we must remove unnecessary forms. However, savings often lie in other coordination and simplification measures. This may, for example: be: simplification related to pre-processing and completion reduced reporting frequency transition to electronic reporting re-use of data Simplification of legislation and transition to electronic transmission of information make the concept of form less important. The offer of electronic registration in the Business Register is one example. Here you only get the questions that are relevant to your company. This is user correction in practice. A more precise way to measure the form load is to focus on the load figures, annuals, for business related to these tasks. In 2007, there is a net decrease in the load figures of 137 yearly works. The government is paying too much attention to simplifying and facilitating business. This is a demanding work, which must be attacked widely. Reducing the number of forms alone is not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1315	It is difficult for representatives of Stortinget to deal with anything other than the information we receive from the Task Register. Therefore, a measurement parameter for representatives in this house will be the overview of the number of forms. The reason I'm focusing on this now is that the Government of the Council of State has promised to work intensively to reduce the form load on business. The government parties even voted against a 2006 Progress Party proposal for a public-private cooperation programme to speed up this work. I record what former state councilman Odd Eriksen said--and now I quote from the consideration of the proposal in Stortinget: ‘Instead of setting up more groups, we should develop and strengthen existing structures and ensure their functioning.’ After this, there have been three meetings in the contact forum, i.e. one per. years. Does the Council of State think that this is a strong commitment to the simplification work of the Government, when you've only had three meetings in three years?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1329	I had a meeting last week or week before that, I don't know if the representative has been counted with it. But the important thing is in any case not the number of meetings, but how the meetings are followed up. Now we have actually had a review and a survey and examined approx. 1 000 enterprises in Norway, a project in which we have gone out and asked concretely what are the burdens of reporting to the public sector. We're going to process those reports, and then on the basis of them, we're going to present an action plan for simplification that goes much wider than the simple point on the number of forms. It's a follow-up to what both the former and the present government agree - that there is a need to simplify and be aware not to get too many forms for so many good purposes. However, we are following this up in concrete terms, first through a broad analysis with the industry itself, second through close cooperation with the business community in the contact forum and thirdly through an action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1338	I just want to point out that the monitoring carried out in relation to compliance, after all, shows a cost of NOK 57 billion per person. years. It shows the need to follow-up the work. Some specific questions I would like to try to finalise here: Will the action plan to which the Council of State now refers be submitted to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget can be involved in the simplification work that is, and that we can have a strong focus on it, regardless of parties? The Council of State will set a target for this work, such as: The EU has been told to reduce the form field or the form load - which represents enormous costs for business - by about a quarter. 25 pst.? And will the State Council present a case to the Stortinget that will come on the basis of the mapping project that has now been?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1345	When the representative refers to what the EU has done, they have done the very opposite of what was the basis for the question: they do not count forms, they count and measure loads - just to stick to the main question and the starting point for it. We will have clear ambitions to reduce the time spent on public registration in the future. We need to go through the material in relation to which of the registrations and which part of the bureaucracy, for example. is part of the EEA legislation. We can't stop there. We're going to see which of the registrations companies themselves benefit from - regardless of the fact that we have to do it for the public - and then try to reduce what might appear unnecessary and at least too difficult to register. From the government's side, it's meant to make an action plan - that is, the government tells what the government is going to do. This, of course, does not mean that the measures contained in the action plan cannot be the subject of debate, both in the United Kingdom and in the public at large.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1378	These questions have been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1384	‘Lier State waiting receptions were opened in 2006 as a housing offer for persons with a final refusal to apply for asylum who do not leave the country voluntarily and who cannot be repatriated. When the reception was opened, the intention was that the residents should live there for a short period of time and that they should be motivated to leave Norway voluntarily. Today people live at reception who have been there for the next two years, and there are people who have been tried to return. Does the Council believe that the waiting reception is successful?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1391	A main intention with the establishment of waiting reception facilities was that the State should assume responsibility for asylum seekers from the time they submit their application and until they settle after the acceptance of the application or have returned to their country of origin after a final refusal, whether voluntary or coercive. The waiting reception system was established after the previous government had put in place a system of cancellation of a state housing offer for the group that is now being offered in waiting reception. This was perceived as a heavy burden on a number of municipalities that received a number of applications for emergency aid from this group. We also saw that the emergency service was practised very differently in different municipalities. The Bondevik II Government itself recognised the problems associated with this, and promoted budget proposals related to the establishment of a waiting reception, then called an exit centre, just before the 2005 elections. The draft budget was re-launched by the current government. In order for the asylum institution to have the necessary legitimacy in the population, it is essential that legitimate refusals are also respected and enforced. Some of those who are finally refused will still be offered a place in regular reception. The exemption groups are single minors, families with children, sick people and persons cooperating with the International Organization for Migration, IOM, on voluntary return. The residents of waiting receptions did not want to travel on a voluntary basis and did not initially want to cooperate with the authorities on identity clearance, obtain travel documents or similar. Persons with a final refusal to apply for asylum obligations to leave the country and it is the responsibility of the police to provide for forced emigration when they do not travel on a voluntary basis. One of the main obstacles to the police's work on forced deportation is that the persons do not cooperate in clarifying their identity. As a general rule, the alienation unit of the police must be absolutely sure who the person is in order for the authorities of the home Member State to accept to take him back. According to data from Lier waiting reception, less than 10 residents have travelled on a voluntary basis, while over 60 have been transported by the police since their establishment in March 2006. By cooperating with the authorities, residents themselves may help to shorten the waiting period. Therefore, no time limit has been set for how long a person can stay there. Nor was it done by the previous government when it promoted the draft budget to set up Lier State waiting receptions. In my view, it cannot be that it is deliberately not to cooperate on identity clearance, etc., that a person is allowed to move back to a regular reception, not to talk about being granted a residence permit. Some countries accept to take their own citizens back only if they travel on a voluntary basis. If you have tried to return home voluntarily, but have been refused entry or similar, this is something that can be presented as a new moment in the case in a conversion request. The Code provides that persons who prove to be genuinely incorrigible may be granted a residence permit. However, as long as one does not belong to the exemption groups I mentioned earlier, it has never been considered that being from such a country, in itself constitutes an exception to the waiting reception system. I find it regrettable that people remain in waiting reception for a long time. So, as mentioned above, people can change the situation themselves by cooperating with the authorities. To indicate that having a final rejection has consequences, while it is clear that the state is responsible for this group as long as they are in the country, I believe the waiting reception system is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1408	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully agree with the intentions of setting up the reception, and very much agree with the start of it. But perhaps it is time to evaluate whether there are enough measures to stimulate return at the waiting reception, as it works today? For example, residents are not allowed to have contact with their home country by telephone and other means, which might have stimulated contact where they had found a family and could have established contact again. The follow-up question to the Council of State is: Is the Council willing to evaluate whether there are good enough measures in the waiting reception that stimulate people to return and that stimulate contact with their home country, which might perhaps have motivated them to return in a better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1415	We continuously assess whether the measures we have are appropriate. I don't think we should leave it in this room again that the main problem in Lier is that people who want to call home to establish contacts that will provide a return cannot complete those phone calls. I think we are on a much higher level than that in our work of motivating for return. If the problem is that you can't pick up a phone, I am absolutely convinced that the type of phone that is happy can be operated, if it can form the basis for a voluntary return. I think we have to realize that for some of the people who live at the wait reception in Lier, there is no lack of motivational follow-up from the staff, there is no lack of good advice or lack of formal decision, but there is no will. It may not be as easy to solve as creating a hotline from the waiting reception to some foreign country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1420	I thank you for the answer, and I know that many will actually be pleased with what the Council of State said now. The second follow-up question is about those who are irretrievable, i.e. those who Norwegian authorities think are really from countries to which we cannot return today. Does the Council of State think this is a good place for those who have not been accommodated, but who are also defined by us as irreversible because they are from such turbulent areas that it is difficult to return them today - sail if they do not have the right to stay here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1427	There is a need to define more precisely, because if you consider that you have applicants who do everything they can to obtain a voluntary return, help clarify identity, even help to search travel documents and identity documents, and in this way cooperate as they do according to the law in relation to returns, there is hardly enough country in our view where returns cannot be made. The last time I asked was our assessment that Cuba could represent a challenge. Now the number of asylum seekers from Cuba is very low in Norway, so it won't solve a big problem for us. In addition, it is possible to carry out voluntary returns where the applicant contributes a hundred percent itself, to almost all countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1435	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: «Sunday, February 24th, d.a. The evening post spoke about the Civil Ombudsman’s report on how a number of disabled and mentally ill people experience their relationship with NAV. The report revealed that case handlers lacked basic knowledge of the needs and opportunities of users, and that case handlers had pre-informed views on how users’ health problems affected their needs and opportunities. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the case handlers are able to acquire elementary competence so that users are met in a dignified manner?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1444	We are now implementing one of the largest administrative reforms in Norwegian history, the NAV reform. We do this because a total increase in its time felt there was a need for major changes in the organisation of welfare systems. We want more in work and activity and less in social benefits. We want more user adaptation and more comprehensive services. We're in good shape, and I'm impatient on behalf of the users. However, we must recognise that it is a major challenge to put in place the physical organisation of the new establishment, with NAV offices to cover all the municipalities of the country, and the establishment of special units for administration and special units for pensions. It may be an even greater challenge to develop skills, new tools and working methods in the new organisation. We have to expect that it will take some time for the new organisation to ‘set up’. Experiences from major mergers just show that. As a result of a report by the Civil Ombudsman in several good articles, the evening post has asked whether the Working and Welfare Act meets users in the right way. Reports of individual meetings with the floor make an impression. At the same time, we must be aware that there is also a lot of positive happening. Of the images reproduced in the media, it can be hard to see exactly that. I place great emphasis on meeting their users in a new and better way. As part of this work, the department will work with the individual to identify needs and to create individual activity plans tailored to the needs of each individual. Whoever needs it will have a fixed contact person. In 2008, between 7000 and 10000 employees will be trained in new ways of working. When a new NAV office is set up, staff also undergo extensive training. The attitudes, values and user involvement are essential elements of this training. It is also in the process of intensifying assistance for people with mental disorders who want to be at work. 5000 employees have been trained in the last year. Own coordinators in each State shall ensure that pressure is maintained in the implementation of the national strategy on work and mental health. During these days, self-employed workers or what is called losers are employed in the largest cities, which have to follow vulnerable users more closely. Users with special needs shall be provided with a fixed contact person in the building. User experience, which has been mentioned in the media recently, is based on experiences that lie a little backwards in time and that just show why the NAV reform was needed. At the same time, we must maintain that the Labour and Welfare Act is consistently achieving good results. In 2007, every day 100 people went from rehab to work. Well-satisfied users are a target of the Employment and Welfare Act. This I place emphasis on in the management of it. For the purpose of detecting user satisfaction, implementation shall be carried out, inter alia: user studies. In these days, a survey involving 7000 users is conducted. User surveys are a useful tool for obtaining information about user requirements, experiences and expectations. Such studies are useful, including: to systematically improve the inadequacies of the establishment’s response. A conference on public treatment and user considerations in the management of labour and welfare is now planned. The conference is scheduled to be held on 25 April of this year. A central objective of the conference is to discuss how best to strengthen dialogue between users, the Labour and Welfare Act and the labour market. At the conference, users, employers and employees at the NAV Office will participate, exchange experiences and provide input for good solutions. The criticism of the establishment must also be seen in the light of the fact that it operates in a highly complex landscape, with many actors and sometimes conflicting considerations. The floor is, among other things, depending on employers who see opportunities. Creating the necessary common platform for users, NAVs and employers is demanding, but important in order to achieve high transition to work, prevent exclusion and promote return to work. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that although I urge you to have some patience before we can expect the objectives of the NAV reform to be achieved, I am very clear in my dialogue with the agency that users will meet with dignity and respect. I'll keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1463	Let me first thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State makes it clear that he is clear every day in its message that users should meet with respect and dignity. But I also think we all agree that it is unsustainable, when such significant deficiencies are revealed in the treatment of groups of mental disorders. It is also unsustainable that you do not have the elementary competence, which confirms, to my knowledge, that that competence has not been found before either, because it is largely the same people who work in this system. Then my follow-up question will be: will the Council of State immediately implement a competence programme, so that those who work as case handlers in NAV will be guaranteed a minimum of competence in the field of mental illness?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1472	I mean, I guess I answered that in my main answer, where I said, ‘The situation is also in the process of intensifying assistance to people with mental disorders who want to be at work. 5,000 employees have been trained in the last year. Own coordinators in each State shall ensure that pressure is maintained in the implementation of the national strategy on work and mental health. During these days, self-employed workers or what is called losers are employed in the largest cities, which have to follow vulnerable users more closely. Users with special needs shall be provided with a fixed contact person in the building.» I believe that is the answer to the follow-up question that the representative Eriksson is now asking. Otherwise, I believe that the representative Eriksson and I fully agree that there is no doubt that the staff in NAV have a competence challenge. There is nothing that has arisen as a result of the NAV reform. It was also part of the reality you've lived in before, but just as full, it's a big challenge for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1482	I thank you once again for your answer. Once again, in its first response, the Council of State also insisted that individual treatment should be provided and that each should receive his/her case handler. It also requires having the necessary knowledge of the individual’s health problems and the possibilities available to him from his diagnosis. Furthermore, in 2008 we will launch 140 new fully-fledged NAV offices and the plan is to launch a new 180 in 2009. This means that there will still be a lot of people going through a lift of skills. Will the Council of State ensure that a level of competence is given in advance, before the establishment of the NAV Office, so as to avoid such unfortunate situations and to lift competences afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1491	I think that reality will be such that you have to work with skills both before and after. It is quite unthinkable to see that all training of employees will take place before the establishment of the NAV Office. Clearly, much of what will be about training will be for people in the social security field to learn about Aetat and vice versa. It is quite natural that the kind of development of competence takes place even after the Agency is established. What I think I and the representative Eriksson agree on is that the NAV reform is not just about building offices, establishing special units and getting one door, one desk, one telephone number and one website. It's about what I often call the moments of truth - the meeting between the user and the staff in NAV, which in the future must be qualitatively better than they have been. Only then will the NAV reform work.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1499	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘The Nordic peak has been on NRK Radio for 34 years and is one of P1’s most famous brand names, but from 1 January 2009 it is over. The Norwegian peak is taken by the transmission form, and an institution in Norwegian cultural life and part of the Norwegian People's Party is buried. The programme has been ‘important for the promotion of Norwegian music, especially for Norwegian artists and the songwriters and songwriters who write in Norwegian’ [[quoted Tove Karoline Knutsen]] Will the Council of State intervene and secure NRK’s abuse of faithful listeners?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1508	I assume that the question is to secure the listeners against abuse from the NRK,...
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1513	Of course!
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1518	...and I'm not going to do that. It is not the responsibility of the Minister of Culture or the Stortinge to enter and decide on individual programmes at the NRK. On the contrary, it's actually the way we've promoted a bill that guarantees editors the freedom to decide such things, regardless of their owners. Owners may express general guidelines, basic attitudes and values. We have a case here in Stortinget on the general rules of the NRK. There we can give our directives, but I would assume that even there it would be unnatural to make a claim that the Norwegian peak should be sent. It belongs to the free editorial provision to be taken by the editor. I would like to remind you that, in the context of the 2008 State budget, the following quotation is found in the budgetary position: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, Ulf Erik Knudsen and Karin S. Woldseth, are of the opinion that culture is a concept that expresses the values and qualities that individuals attach high self-esteem. These members will point out that what is good culture for one does not have to be good culture for another at all. For this reason, these members believe that culture should initially be free and independent of political governance and that it must be based on volunteering and personal commitment. These members are of the opinion that political-led cultural goods destroy the essence of culture and promote uniformity. Examples of this have been seen in other countries, including the Communist era in Eastern Europe and in today’s North Korea.’ I would like to elaborate on the follow-up question whether the Progress Party believes that the intervention of a Council of State in NRK's individual programme offers is a good policy in a system where culture is free and independent of governance, or whether North Korea and the Communists of Eastern Europe are closer to a system where politicians control the programmes in broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1530	Of course, the Council of State is right when it comes to the question. I'm sorry that I'm looking cold and therefore not a hundred percent in shape today. The NRK as a cultural institution is in a special position because the NRK is financed by a compulsory licence fee. As such, the society of which we are a part, and which we represent at Stortinget, must be able to make some demands on NRK requirements that can be expressed as simply as the slogan to NRK: «Something for all. Always." So there are 360 000 people who enjoy this program, and you can see that taking away the program is a violation of this policy. Another main perspective that has emerged is the importance of having such a programme for Norwegian music. Does the Council agree with its party trap, Tove Karoline Knutsen, that this is an important programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1539	We politicians may also have clear opinions about which programs we like or don't like in the NRK. I am happy to watch Lunch TV on NRK, and it is now being closed. I can have my opinions on it, but as Minister of Culture or as a politician, I'm not going to engage in the formal systems to try to influence the NRK to make other choices. We're going to put some general guidelines. That's why it's important that we have NRK, that's why it's important that we maintain the license payment, and that's why it's important that we don't sell the NRK, as the Progress Party wants. Then it would be purely commercial interests that crashed. The only advantage would be that then we might not have such questions as this. What I intend to follow is the Broadcasting Act. It says it's the broadcaster who decides. And then in the NRK poster, I want to assume that it's going to be played at least 35 pst. Norwegian music, Norwegian films and dramas are to be shown, a diversity of Norwegian culture is to be shown, and programmes are to be created for people of all ages: news, information, etc. There we put the general guidelines, but the individual programmes we leave to the NRK itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1548	The state councils make it like he doesn't want to run the NRK in detail. But as he also admits here, he has put forward a big deal about the so-called NRK poster where he says, as a percentage, how much Norwegian music there should be, in percent which language forms are to be used in the NRK, that it should be an orchestra, that it should be Sami, that it should be something for immigrants. If this isn't detail management, I don't know. He has also gone so far that he has put in his own party colleague as head of the board of directors in the NRK, so here there's no connection between what you're actually saying and what you're doing. Here I demand more consistency. When you don't want to get involved in the Norwegian peak, but you get involved in such details, there's no connection in the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1555	To answer in a language that the representative certainly understands: Born in NRK in 1973 A program that quickly became a success Norwegian music bursts into a hard reality An application with soul gave it a chance The Norwegian peak was its name A politician has to be careful We can't control everything on the NRK. To choose what people see and hear Are there other people - they're called editors The Norwegian peak gives them names The NRK must be free and unbound Application instructions become very objectionable Our leadership shall be general: Wide detail control is an ideal The Norwegian peak was its name
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1594	I allow myself to ask questions to the Minister of Health: ‘In the municipality of Nesna, people in nursing homes receive a bath/shower twice a month. In answer to written question No. The Council of State said: ‘It is generally not good enough for patients to limit this to twice a month if the patient wants to wash and care more often.’ In Nesna, obviously, this isn't happening. Will the Council of State take its responsibilities and provide worthy conditions for caregiving in Nesna, as promised in Soria Moria?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1603	I assume that those who are professionally responsible for the services assess this in a good way in each municipality. It is the responsibility of municipalities to provide medically sound health care to the inhabitants of their municipalities. It is also the responsibility of local authorities to provide services in accordance with requirements of professional care and care, i.e. to provide good quality of service. Then the users probably have a different need for shower and personal care, based on their health status and their habits. I can mention that Borgarting Lawyers' Law in January this year found that the municipalities do not have the opportunity to provide personal care as washing and care if the patients do not want it. This illustrates that binding national standards on personal hygiene are not appropriate. The key is that the service provision is adapted to the needs of individual users in individual municipalities. But it's quite clear that if the patient wants to shower more often, it should be added to it. I think everyone agrees. This government is working for a continuous improvement in the quality of care. In this work, it is essential to strengthen professional development in interaction with employees and to listen to both users and relatives. People should be sure that they get the help they need when they need it. The quality regulations to be followed by municipalities require them to establish procedures to ensure that basic needs are met by users. Clearly, personal hygiene is such a fundamental need. I'm glad to say there's a broad consensus here in the hall on the main lines of future care. This is also crucial in addressing the challenges facing us in terms of both quality and capacity. Therefore, when the Stortinget dealt with the state budget for 2008, an agreement was concluded between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties. The agreement specifies and strengthens the Regeningen Care Plan 2015. I have great faith that this will contribute to a decent care for the elderly, more competence, better dimensioning of the service and active care.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1619	It does not help how much you agree with Stortinget to make a worthwhile offer, if it is not followed up in the municipalities. In this case, it's quite obvious that it's not done in the Nesna municipality. In today's Rana Blade, another can see which offer is not given there, which says among other things. on a day-to-day basis without activities and lighting points for the elderly: ‘No organised activities have been carried out since the end of the working room in 1996. Today, activities are sporadic and mainly at the initiative of private individuals.’ Furthermore, it says that there is great frustration among residents and caregivers at home, not least because they are promised prompt help, but that help has not come into place. «The frustration is currently great. We have no procedures to ensure the organisation of activity offers. Service quality is required. It's missing today. The highlight of the elderly is a hot meal on Saturday, otherwise they sit in the chair 10-12 hours a day, interrupted by sleep.’ Many of the elderly get stiff after sitting in the chair for a long time. Then my question is, is this a worthy care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1636	I do not know the situation in Nesna in particular, but this government's policy is that all those living in nursing homes, or need public assistance in the field of care for the elderly, should have good quality services. It is a matter of such things as personal hygiene, showering, etc., and it is a matter of one also wanting to have as much activity as possible. This is one important reason why this government has increased the appropriations as significantly as we have done to the municipalities, in order to employ more people, and in order to give more activity. Then it's a responsibility for the local municipal politicians to make sure that it happens in the hospital, even in Nesna. And if it were to be like that there, for example. relating to personal hygiene, to quality regulations, etc. not followed, and that the operation is not professionally sound, I expect that this is something that the Health Authority will look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1643	I'll follow up with what's in the Rana Blade: ‘Many of the elderly get stiff after sitting in the chair for a long time, but they don’t get physiotherapy to soften the joints. It's been a long time since we've had a permanent physiotherapist, and it doesn't make the situation easier for the elderly. The overcoat is now so large that we have little space to get to the corridors. In fact, we have a patient lying on a kitchen. The dent department is not a separate department, but part of the whole care unit with a locked door, and there is no good situation.» There is an assistant nurse working in the municipality of Nesna who says this. Then is my follow-up question: when the situation is obviously not satisfactory in the municipality of Nesna, will the Council of State take the initiative before the Health Authority so that they go into and look at the situation, or do you expect to know about this without intervening?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1655	As I said, I don't know the situation in Nesna especially. But the State's health authorities always follow up on what's going on, and they're an independent body, as you know. I expect that they will intervene if they believe that it is necessary. I also know that they're following what's being said in Stortingen's Question Time. Then I fully agree that older people, like all other people, will be allowed to have meaningful working days as well as the day they come to the nursing home, be it by activity and proper hygiene or by being allowed to decide as much as possible about their own working days. Therefore, the Government has strengthened this sector with people, with money and with its own plan for dementia. It is also particularly important for municipalities to apply for the current grant from this year to build up more hospitals. As I hear it from the representative Svendsen, it sounds as if there is a need for it. It is clear that it is unworthy if it is right that people lie on a kitchen or, in other contexts, have been put in a warehouse. We do not normally want such conditions in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1674	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1680	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Health: ‘There have been 16 years since the introduction of the HVPU reform. The reform led to better living conditions for many people with developmental disabilities. Different supervisory reports show that the offer made to this group is not satisfactory in many places. The Council of State for the Disabled recommends that a public sample be set up to review the life situation, living conditions and services of mentally impaired persons. How far has the Council of State come to work to bring down a public sample, and when will we see the results?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1689	In October last year, the Minister for Children and Gender Equality was entrusted with the responsibility of coordinating policies for people with disabilities from the Minister for Employment and Inclusion. This means that each department is responsible for facilitating disabled persons in its field of competence. This also applies to people with developmental disabilities. But it is the Minister for Children and Gender Equality who has the overall responsibility and coordinating responsibility. That is why, in principle, the Minister for Children and Gender Equality will decide whether to proceed with the proposal of a public body. I participate in the overall political cooperation on disability policy. In the autumn of 2006, the Council of State for the Disabled organised a consultation conference on the status and challenges of the provision of the disabled at the request of the departments concerned. The conference was wide-ranging and brought together more than 200 participants. In the summary of this conference, the Council of State for the Disabled recommends, as the representative Ludvigsen says, that a public body should be set up to review the life situation, living conditions and services of people with disabilities. It was the Council that presented this proposal at that conference. The participants were also invited to write down which three measures they thought were most important for the Government to follow up in the future. The proposal for a public sample received little attention compared to the proposal to develop assistance services and school provision, as well as improved access to work and meaningful leisure and cultural services. Following this conference, an inter-ministerial group has discussed the challenges and proposals for action. The group has reviewed what was announced at the conference. The Health Inspectorate’s reports and a report from the Social and Health Directorate in 2007 — summarising knowledge of living conditions, services and legal security for people with disabilities — have also been taken into account. We know a lot about what's not good enough in these areas, and where we lack knowledge. The work of the interministerial group shows that there is a lot of work going on and that there are also plans in a number of areas. I follow up my responsibilities in different ways, not least through the 2015 care plan, the National Health Plan and the National Strategy for Habilitation and Rehabilitation. I have also established the National Environment of Competence on Development Deficiency, NACU. Furthermore, the developmental and ageing programme, UAU, is established as a permanent activity at the National Centre of Competence for Ageing and Health. We consider the question of whether a public sample is a relevant handle, but are in doubt whether it will be appropriate and proper resource use. There is agreement that now action is more important than further investigation. We have to make sure that we use the resources on the measures we already know are necessary to achieve improvements in practice. But it is the Minister for Children and Gender Equality who first of all has to address the question raised by the representative Ludvigsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1702	Thanks for the answer. I can say that in principle I agree with the main message, that we need action, not a lot of reports, because we have a lot of reports. Within this area, as the Council of State also says, there are several departments and responsibility is transferred. We also have the Social and Health Directorate that plays a role here. So at least it's important that someone is able to coordinate this for this group. I don't know if a public selection is the best, but at least I think it's high time that a person gets a full review of the lifestyle and the legal security of people with developmental disabilities, where one focuses on two questions: what has worked? What has not worked?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1711	What I feel is that the representative Ludvigsen and I, on behalf of the Government, are fully in agreement, is that we should improve the situation for people with disabilities. What they're saying is that some of what you need more is work, to be able to participate in leisure activities, that is, the social, as well as the help that you need. Then I am pleased that the representative Ludvigsen agrees that action is now perhaps more needed than investigations, because we already know a lot. There is also an important reason why some changes were made in the area of responsibility, in order to clarify who is responsible for coordination between the different departments. So I take with me the input that the representative Ludvigsen has with regard to the views of a public body. I will pass it on to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1718	A selection may not be the best, but at least it was an interesting question to ask. But what I did in question round two here, about getting a complete evaluation of what has worked, and what has not worked, is a track that I think should follow closer. It's like there's a lot of actors here. It doesn't come from. But someone has to coordinate it, and it's probably okay that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality does it. The Disability Council has discussed various measures. They're talking about that, for example. the competence of NAV and the school advisory service must be strengthened. There is probably one specific proposal. The possibility of active leisure needs to be strengthened, the foaling card needs to become a national scheme, one must look at small job breaks in municipalities. They have made some concrete proposals. Is there any government council going to follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1725	It's very important what users and user organisations think about this sea, and I think it's very important to listen to them. The representative Ludvigsen also repeated some of the proposals they made. This is something that the Government is working on, and I will ensure that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality is informed about the things that the representative Ludvigsen has addressed through this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1735	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘The members of the National Council for Prenatal Care resigned from office on 2 November 2007. The justification was a long-standing difficult dialogue with the Ministry of Health and Welfare on the follow-up to the 2001 Stortingen decision on a professionally sound, decentralised and differentiated maternity care. The Council delivered its final report on Friday 15 February. What is the Council of State’s assessment of the content of the report?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1744	The National Council for Paternity Care, adopted by the Stortinget in 2001, was to assist in the conversion process, quality assurance and evaluation of operations in the context of the organisation of decentralised and differentiated birth care. As the Stortinget knows, and as the representative Sjøli now refers to, the members of the Council let down their duties in November 2007. The final report of the previous Council sets out the conversion work in which the Council has been involved from 2002 to 2007. This report gives a good picture of how demanding such conversion processes can be. Changes from a small maternity ward to a feeding room, such as in Lærdal and Lake Meuse, to mention some examples, have been met with strong local resistance from both local professionals, local politicians and the local population. The report claims that there are quality problems in small food departments, due to unstable manning and temporary employment. It's a concern I'm taking very seriously, because all food establishments, large or small, need to be of good quality. It must apply regardless of the number of births. I have therefore assured myself that the State Health Authority is following up the Council’s concern about the quality of the small food departments. Women must be safe when they are born, regardless of whether they are born in a maternity ward, a maternity ward or a female clinic. That being said, it is important to stress to the representative of Sjøli that the quality of maternity care in Norway is very high in the international context. In the case of serious harm or death in mother and child at birth, Norway is fortunately among the countries with the lowest figures. However, I would like to make it clear that I have not made the assumption that the current structure of maternity care should be maintained - I have not done so - as the outgoing council claims in its report. I also presented this in the hearing of the Health and Welfare Committee on 15 November last year. In 2001, the Stortinget adopted as known a new structure with a three-level maternity care and a lower birth rate limit at each level - which I do not understand was an absolute limit: female clinic with at least 1,500 births, maternity ward with at least 400-500 births and maternity centre with a lower limit of 40 births. This structure of maternity care has passed both through this government, so far, and through the Bondevik II government. Despite the shifts we have had since 2001, today’s situation is that there are now more births that have even lower birth rates than those indicated by Storting. In 2006, there were 5,400 births, 10 pst., which took place at births that have fewer births than the size indicated. As I explained in the hearing, I believe it is now necessary to assess this situation, but I stressed that I have not yet concluded that the guidelines should be amended. That's one of the things we're looking at right now. But as I said, we must also take account of Norway's geography and the need for local adaptations. But it is not supposed to be at the expense of the demand for professional soundness, which is the most important. We are now in the process of appointing new members to the new National Council for Paternity Care, in line with the Storting decision. The President of the Council has been appointed and we are waiting for proposals for candidates from the relevant professional organisations, users and municipalities. The new Council, together with the Social and Health Directorate, will be actively involved in the work on a strategy for comprehensive maternity, maternity and maternity care. Pregnancy and childbirth concern everyone in this country. It is an important task for me, as Minister of Health, to ensure a good platform for the process we now want for future services in this field. I therefore hope that the new Council will be able to take up the important tasks that lie ahead. As you know, it is necessary to improve parts of maternity care in Norway, because we also have adverse events. There are things that shouldn't happen. I mean, for example. that women must be able to choose between permanent and midwifery in pregnancy. Today, there are - the representative also knows Sjøli very well - municipalities that are completely without a midwife, or have very low job breaks, and that is not good enough. Obstetrics is another area that I think we need to look at separately, since the time spent in maternity wards has been considerably shorter in recent times. The work now started with a strategy for maternity, maternity and maternity care has just this as a starting point: How are we going to ensure the country's pregnant and birthing a high-quality offer? Then we also need to focus on the whole and the continuity of this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1767	I would like to thank you for your answer. I am very pleased with the signals now given by the Council of State, because I believe she agrees with me that it is serious when professionals say that life can be lost because there has been a lack of willingness to convert birth care in line with the Storting decision. That's especially in the last couple of years it's been pointed out. I am also pleased that the Council of State now appoints a new council. The problem note sent out states that the composition and mandate should be changed. I would just like to confirm that the mandate and composition should follow the decision of the Storting - or if the Council of State has other plans for the mandate and composition of the Council - for this would be a technical council to assist in the conversion. It is a very demanding process, which the Council of State itself was in. I'd like to hear about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1776	First of all, there is no doubt that when the old council in its final report said that life could be lost, it is clear that we took it very seriously. That is also the background to my assurance that the Health Authority will go into this matter and check it. So this is it taken care of, to say it that way. With regard to the mandate of the new Council, it is clear that it will be within the framework of the decision of the Storting. It's seaworthy. When it comes to the composition, I think it is important to discuss whether you should also have with user representatives. It's also a little bit because luckily it's going forward, and the world is changing, and I think it's a point that it might make sense to discuss. But it's clear that we're dealing with the decisions the Storting has made, and to the extent that we do something else, I'm going to discuss it with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1785	I thank you for your answer again. That was reassuring, because that was a very good reason for both the mandate and the composition of the Council. It is and has been a very demanding process, professionally also, to implement the changes that Stortinget wanted, both in the case of a decentralised offer and in the case of a differentiated offer. So I hope that there will be changes in that, that the Council of State will come to the Storting and inform about it. That is what the Council of State was also concerned about, the lack of midwives in the municipalities not only for pregnancy control but also for the follow-up service. I would like her to say something quite specific about what is being done in that context in order to improve that offer. After all, it's a legal duty. Municipalities give part-time jobs as an alibi for following the law. That's not a good enough offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1792	I feel that the representative, Sjøli and I – on behalf of the government – are in complete agreement on the importance of having more midwives, more midwives in all positions as well, precisely because we need to ensure better continuity and better quality of service, from women to being pregnant until they are born. Then it's very important that we have enough midwives, who cooperate with the parole when necessary, and with the hospital, seagoing, when they get there. This also applies to the follow-up service, which we have seen as a challenge some places in the country, not least after the discussion last year about summer closures, where there were some places in the country - without mentioning my name - not a good enough job was done in that area. What I specifically do with this is to follow up with the health companies. I can't control the municipalities in detail -- it's not like that. We give money to the municipalities. We underline the importance of this. We tell healthcare companies that they need to be careful about using midwives and to ensure that accompanying services are in place. So I think this is also a very important discussion when we're going to create a new strategy for how we're going to shape this forward, how we're going to make sure that we get enough midwives in place. I believe that the representative, Mr Sjøli, will also be involved in discussions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1803	‘Romerikes Blad 23 February 2008 points to a huge discrimination in the right to physiotherapy services. Persons suffering from treatment must wait for months and years because the municipalities have not established a sufficient number of contract shelters for physiotherapists, and thus entitled to social security reimbursement for the patient. Many people are forced to choose a manager without a contract and pay the treatment of their own pocket in order to be able to work. Will the Council of State contribute to the equality of all persons with regard to the right to social security disbursement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1810	The current funding scheme for the physiotherapy service was introduced by the Municipal Health Service Act in 1984. Municipalities shall provide physiotherapy services to the population either by employing physiotherapists in permanent municipal positions or by agreeing on operating grants with private physiotherapists. The system of the patient’s right to social security disintegration in treatment by any physiotherapist was abandoned in 1984. This was done by the introduction of the Local Health Services Act and the establishment of the operating grant scheme. Before 1984, the services were financed in their entirety as known through reimbursement tariffs paid through the provision of social security and by accruals. This scheme led to a very distorted geographical distribution of doctors, physiotherapists and psychologists. These occupational groups were largely concentrated in and around our large cities, especially in Oslo and the eastern region. The main objective of the change in 1984 was to achieve a better geographical distribution of, inter alia: The physical therapy offer. For this government, it is essential to provide good and equivalent health services irrespective of their place of residence. That is why I have no intention of reintroducing the scheme before 1984, with the equities that this scheme had at that time. Patients seeking physiotherapist who have entered into an agreement on operating grants with the municipality are entitled to social benefits to cover expenses for physiotherapy treatment. This right of reimbursement follows the patient and not the physiotherapist. It is not, of course, acceptable for local residents not to receive the necessary health care in the municipalities within a reasonable period of time. I am aware that in some municipalities there may be a very long waiting period for physiotherapy. This may be due to the fact that the individual municipality does not see the need to set up posts or private premises for the service and/or that the demand is greater than the offer that can be made. In addition, nearly half of the patients treated by private physiotherapists with an operating contract are entitled to free treatment on the basis of diagnosis. The government has now started a work in which we are reviewing the funding of the physiotherapy service in the municipalities, with a view to increasing municipal funding responsibilities. An own working group which includes, inter alia: The central association of municipalities and the Norwegian Physiotherapy Associations are involved, we have looked at various measures that can help to increase the financial responsibility of municipalities, and we have assessed different funding models. The Ministry will, as mentioned in St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, assess the work of the Group with a view to any proposed amendments. We'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1823	As a member of the Labour and Social Committee, I am, of course, concerned with the cost of sick messages and trying to avoid people getting into disservices because they actually don't get the follow-up they need to get into work. With the big NAV reform and the welfare message we've been through, it's kind of weird to me that on the one hand you're standing on this platform and telling about all the good we have to do to help people get to work, while on the other hand you have free physiotherapists, who, once again, demand that you actually have a lot of money yourself to get treatment. I had hoped that the Council of State would look at the relationship between the field of work within which I am working, and the field of work within which the Council of State is working, because these fields are very closely linked in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1828	I fully agree with the representative of Kjønaas Kjos that it is essential that we both manage to keep as many people as possible in the workplace, for all sorts of reasons, and also manage to get more people back to work - whether they are temporarily sick, or, as the representative says, on disability. There's a lot of ways to do it, but it's clear that many people will be able to get help along the way to get back, if it's health it's on. That would include, among other things: physiotherapists could be one of several ways to get it. Today, about 300 physiotherapists are trained every year, and about 300 are trained. 150 abroad. It has been so far beyond what the public has been able to employ. Therefore, some physiotherapists in larger municipalities are likely to have established a fully-private offer, which is not part of the municipal service. This government is very concerned that we're going to have as much geographical distribution of physiotherapists as possible, and we're now going through this based on the group that's been working, to see how we're going to get all this to be even better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1835	There's another point that I've been busy with. The Council of State here says to look at increased financial responsibility for the municipalities. In my field of work, it is the state that wants the savings from the fact that there is a good physiotherapy service in the municipalities, while the municipalities get the expenses. It is a bit problematic to increase the offer when politicians are sitting with budgets that do not provide savings. There is a general problem in municipalities when you sit with small budgets and do all the important things. Based on the signals given by the Council of State, where she says that the financial burden on municipalities should be increased, it would be nice to hear how she thought that with such a system it would actually be a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1840	I want to stress that we haven't concluded that that's what we're going to do, but that's the group that, among other things. Representatives of the Local Governments' Central Association have been involved, who have recommended that we go in that direction to see if the municipalities can contribute by taking more of their financial responsibility. The idea behind it is well that if the municipalities are given total responsibility for funding - i.e. both income and expenditure - they will also have greater self-interest in facilitating more offers and more permits to have contracts with physiotherapists or to employ them full-time. This is an important issue, and I take with me the signals that come from the representative here regarding the work that we are going to finish, but that we have not yet concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1850	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In 2001, organic farmers were granted a transitional period of 10 years in order to comply with the requirement to set-aside in milk production. In conventional production, there is a requirement for the transition to unladen operation by 2024. Despite this, the Council of State has granted permanent derogations to organic herds under 35 cows. With this Decision, Norwegian organic farming will go along with its own ethical principles. What is the technical basis on which the Council of State has based its decision, and does the Council of State see that this weakens the confidence in organic milk production?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1859	The organic production legislation is part of the EEA Agreement. One of the main rules in organic livestock farming is that the animals should not be bound. An exception to this shall apply to bovine animals in buildings set up before 24 August 2000. This derogation has been proposed for the year 2010. Furthermore, it is an exception to the requirement for the lay-off of small herds of bovine animals. From the Norwegian side, we have assessed it so that the limit for smaller herds that can be exempted from the decommissioning requirement can be set at national level. On this basis, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food asked the Food Authority to investigate this relationship. The Food Authority received 28 recordings at this hearing. Food surveillance also examined how other countries have managed the same exception. Sweden, our neighbouring country, has, for example, set a limit of 46 cows. Some other countries have a lower limit. At the hearing, the Hearing Officers made various recommendations. Several hearing bodies have referred to the Government's 15 p.m. target. organic production in 2015 recommended a border against the Swedish. The Food Safety Authority’s recommendation has made an overall assessment of animal welfare, consumer confidence, cultural landscapes and business interests, and the Food Safety Authority recommended that such an exemption be made by proposing a limit of 18 cows. In reviewing this case, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has come to the conclusion that Norway is free to set a permanent national limit for smaller herds. It is possible to look at how smaller herds are defined in other countries, what additional requirements of an animal welfare nature should be set at booths, what environmental impacts overall will result from an exemption, and what effect a derogation will have for the target of 15 pst. organic production in 2015. On this basis, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has established a permanent derogation from the requirement to operate organically. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has assumed that the target of 15 pst. organic production in 2015 has an overall environmental policy justification. It is not possible to follow up this objective without applying it also to milk production. In view of this, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has concluded that the derogation from the requirement to provide for a permanent scheme for herds up to 35 dairy cows. It is, however, provided that the additional requirements of an animal welfare and environmental nature to be applied to cages are reviewed and reinforced. It is not such that the derogation for organic milk production implies that Norwegian organic production is to go on chords with its own ethical principles and that this Decision will weaken the confidence in organic milk production in Norway. For the first country, the limit has been set higher than that of Norway, and this is a general exception that is used by many countries other than Norway. Furthermore, organic milk production in Norway is linked to smaller herds than in other countries. The established derogation provisions of a lasting nature allow the maintenance of a structure based on smaller units than we would otherwise have had and the achievement of the ambitious objective of a 15 pst organic production. also for milk in 2015. I think that's important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1872	I thank the Minister for Agriculture and Food for the answer. It is true that animal welfare is one of the main reasons Norwegian consumers have for buying organic food. Over 80 pst. by the Norwegian population, cows are considered to have the best welfare in livestock production. There is no doubt that the dispensation of the Council of State is problematic, based on the behavioral biology of the churches. It's nice to have the goal of increasing organic production, but it's not always that the goal is devoted to the product. Does the Council see the danger that the conventionalisation of organic farming could lead to consumers and organisations being warned of organic products in the future rather than recommending them for animal welfare reasons, especially if conventional production is unmanaged, while organic production is not?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1881	If we hadn't combined this with a review of the requirements of the booth fan, I'd have seen the objections that Kongshaug's representative brings here. It is quite clear that what we are doing now must and must be combined with tightened demands, so that the very issue of which the representative of Kongshaug is concerned, which I think is a quite legitimate problematisation linked to the importance of focusing on animal welfare, is not real, because by tightening up the normal requirements we ensure that animal welfare is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1886	Now it's not just the undersigned who questions this exemption. In Bondebladet on 28 February, Professor Olav Østerås writes: ‘The ecological principle is based on good animal welfare and is to be as close to nature as possible. It is clearly a political decision. [[...]] The government wants more organic milk. Then they should rather go in with incentives. Investment aid was granted in Denmark. It was a huge success. Instead, Riis-Johansen changes the legislation to something that will not be legal in conventional production after 2024. According to what has now been adopted, organic cows can stand on booths in future, but not conventional. I can't see the logic of it." Who is it that has a lack of vision to see the logic here? Is that the professor, or is it the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1900	That a strong use of investment instruments towards the organic dairy environment could lead to a faster pace of change from boning to organic, I think it's easy to see, if you chose to do it. At the same time, I have to say that defining bouncy as something that is not capable of and suitable for the welfare of animals is problematic, as we are actually going to have a booth in Norway for a long time to come. We need to ensure that stalls in Norway also maintain a high animal welfare standard, because in any case it is 16 years from 2008 to 2024. So close to saying that I can't do that on behalf of the animal welfare in the stalls, because I'm responsible for the fact that those chickens too are going to hold a high animal ethical and animal welfare standard. Those requirements shall be strengthened. So now this is a matter that needs to be seen in relation to organic production.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1908	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In Articles 25 February and 26 February the daily newspaper described gross animal abuse related to the foreign production of merino wool from sheep. The method is referred to as mulesing. Several Norwegian clothing companies sell clothes that have been produced in this way. What can the Government do to prevent products sold to consumers in Norway from being made in processes that need to be described as manifest animal abuse, and what can the Government do in this specific matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1917	First, I want to give tribute to the representative Hansen to address questions related to animal welfare. I think that's an important topic. This is a question that deserves a real answer. I am, as the representative Hansen, concerned with animal welfare, and reading about matters to which the representative Hansen here refers is not a pleasant reading. I am now working on a new law on animal welfare. The hearing on the law ended on 18 February, and 138 hearing replies were received. There is no doubt that animal welfare is a theme that engages many. So far, we have a different set of rules to deal with. It is such that the type of production the representative Torbjørn Hansen mentions here is not legal in Norway today. But we have per cent. at present, no provisions of Norwegian legislation that may refuse the placing on the market or importation of products derived from animals suffering from poor animal welfare. In the specific case referred to by the representative Torbjørn Hansen, I must therefore first of all encourage importers, shops and, in particular, consumers in Norway to have a conscious relationship with animal welfare and to choose products from animals where animal welfare is maintained in production - until further notice. However, the legislative proposal that has now been consulted suggests that Norway can regulate the placing on the market of animal products in the interests of animal welfare. It is intended to be able to prevent the placing on the Norwegian market of products derived from animals that have been exposed to vandalism or unwarranted activity. There is reason to believe that such provisions could have a direct impact on animal welfare when changing the mode of operation. I aim to promote the proposal for a new Animal Welfare Act for the Storting in 2009, a law that provides the basis for regulating the movement of products precisely on the grounds of animal welfare. If this proposal is adopted by the Stortinget, we will be able to decide in future that such products will not be traded here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1928	I would like to thank you for your answer. I think it is positive that the government has the attitude to animal welfare that the council here expresses. The proposal for a new animal welfare law, which has been at the hearing, contains a regulatory body in which the King may restrict, impose or prohibit the placing on the market and use of products derived from animals subject to this law. It is therefore possible for the Government to prohibit the placing on the market and import of wool products based on this type of animal abuse. Then it is close to asking the Council of State whether it is likely that the Government will impose such a ban on imports of this type of wool, and in that case how to control that such imports do not take place, because it is obviously a difficult issue - it is difficult to know what kind of products are produced where.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1937	On the first part of the question, the answer is yes, that's my intention. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, I do well to share the representative's concern, because it is quite clear that the control challenge here is significant. When we talk about products that come from the other side of the Earth, as in this example, it is obvious that the possibility of having good control is significantly weaker than what it is in Norway. So there is no need to hide that there is a significant challenge in checking that animal welfare is in place in advance of products being sent to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1944	Unfortunately, it is a time for this law to be adopted - it is in 2009. My question to the Council of State is what he will do now in the situation that disturbs many consumers and that has been thoroughly illuminated in the newspaper. If we go back to 2003, then Minister of Agriculture and Food Lars Sponheim had an initiative on imports of fur products. He contacted the industry and had a dialogue related to ways to stop such imports in cooperation with the industry. Then my question is whether the Council of State will take such an initiative here, because this is where the risk is obvious. There's a media boost around a case for a short period of time, and then it disappears, and then maybe the imports continue, mostly from importers who put emphasis on the low-price segment. Will the Council of State take an initiative here to ensure that the trade industries and importers stop the type of imports that this is about?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1953	As I said in my very first answer, I strongly urge everyone involved in these processes to take responsibility -- an ethical, animal welfare responsibility. A natural follow-up for my part, and which is in my response to the representative Hansen, is that I want to take such an initiative towards them a knower is involved in this type of import, this type of production.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-03-05.ana.ud889e1958	Then today's regular Question Time is over, and today's map is finished. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
