ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e55	The representative Borghild Tende, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e77	In this case, the Government proposes clarification of Section 26(b). One wants to get a more precise description of the home in relation to being able to introduce boat licenses and boat drivers' registers. The progress party believes that this case is reasonably thin if you want to get the Stortingen's agreement to introduce a boat driver's license and a boat driver's register. The Progress Party therefore wants the Government to come back to the Storting with a case on this which is much more thoroughly investigated, where a consultation on these issues has been carried out, and where the Committee may also have a proper examination in relation to whether this is a wish out there. Therefore, the Progress Party will vote against the Committee's proposal for Section 26(b).
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e82	The right has no own comments or suggestions in this proposition, so I'm actually just taking the word to comment on what goes on a boat driver's license. In the vote, the Progress Party notes that the proposal does not provide the Stortinget with sufficient grounds for introducing a system of requirements for boat driving licences and boat drivers' registers. I agree with that. But the thing is that this proposition was adapted to a statute that exists in today's law. In this case, the Storting does not decide whether or not to impose requirements on a boat driver's licence. The right voted against a proposal from the Workers' Party in the previous period on the introduction of a compulsory boat driving licence, because we doubted whether the introduction of such a scheme would be an appropriate instrument to prevent a trend in the number of accidents at sea. Today's government has then set up a working group to look into the evolution of the number of accidents involving recreational boats. I share the government's view that we have a challenge with ever more recreational boats with ever larger engines, while the qualifications of those who run these boats have obviously not been involved in this development. The right is also concerned about the evolution of the number of marine casualties. It should be safe to travel in our near waters. Therefore, the right will decide on the question of any new requirements for boat drivers when the Government has concluded, as appropriate, how it will monitor the situation of the working group.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e93	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 709]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e109	It's a unanimous committee that provides the setting. There is only reason to point out that the landfill treatment of Ot.prp. No 63 for 2007-2008 is divided between the Labour and Social Committee and the Health and Care Committee, that the Health and Care Committee is to address the issue of extended health care rights for chiropractors and manual therapists and that it will be addressed until the autumn. The two proposals put forward unanimously by the Committee are to amend the Law on People's Rights so as to allow the provision of rehabilitation benefits to persons who fall ill after the end of their stay, and to allow for the granting of rehabilitation benefits to persons who receive benefits for living after the end of a long period of paid day in the course of illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e116	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 710]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e132	All lots, with the exception of the Advance Party, are responsible for the Committee's suspension. The changes presented here come as a result of the social security scheme and the proposals made in the social security scheme. I just want to be allowed to address the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e139	The representative Robert Eriksson has addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e142	The government is proposing to add $180 million. in 2008 to increase the supplementary pension for young disabled people, from 3.3 to 3.5 pension points. Although the organisations with which the government negotiated initially required an increase that was two and a half times stronger than this - up to 4 pension points - they still seem satisfied with the results. So generously as the government has acted in the payroll this year, and then especially in connection with the AFP, it would be very surprising if the government had not had any fresh money to add to this settlement as well. When figures presented by the Government itself in the revised national budget show that the sum of increased structural tax receipts and changes in the estimate of dividends and the rule-driven changes in popular security have given the Government over DKK 10 billion in fresh - new - money in the 2008 budget, it is probably not 180 million extra dollars to meet the huge challenge. Moreover, the Christian People's Party and the other opposition parties have supported the proposal to set aside extra money in the budget for the effect of wage settlements, including social security. Either the Christian People's Party is in government position or in opposition, we have as principle that we support appropriations and legislative proposals resulting from settlement where the state and the counterparties have negotiated agreement. We also do so in this case. As the Government has explained in the proposition, there is a bill here related to the fact that the benefits linked to the basic amount have to be compensated in order not to compensate the basic amount itself for the lag in relation to the wage development of society in general. The government has warned that this will to a large extent be used to increase the minimum rates of benefits. It's a profile that it's not hard to agree with. At the same time, I would like to remind the government parties that in the current year they have been responsible for, in my opinion, a very unfortunate tightening of the legislation on reintroduction fees. The disabled people’s organisations reacted unequivocally negatively when the right to return after completion was cut from six to three months in the current year’s budget. In this respect, the persons represented by the organisations of disabled persons have been partly responsible for paying the increased appropriations currently made available by the Government. When we first focus on the theme of return benefits: maybe it would have been an idea to reverse this measure? As I said, the Christian People's Party supports the outcome of the social security discussions regarding the supplement for young people and will vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e157	We had intended to take the debate on social security in its entirety during the matter to go into Stortinget, but when the representative Woie Duesund still chooses to start a debate, there is a need to answer a few things. One is that this is a promise that has occurred now during this Government. These benefits have remained silent for very many years, even under the government where the Christian People's Party has been a participant. So this is the first time something happens in very many years. The second is that I hear over and over again that this government has got so much more in tax revenue to use. Then I hope that representatives of the parties who have been in government for many years are aware that when you set up a budget, you cannot include all the revenue that comes in. Then what would happen to a year when tax revenue went down? Would the Christian People’s Party break down social welfare arrangements and destroy them because tax revenue went down? When you set up a budget, the system is so that you don't include these revenues in the budget, and when it's good times, we spend a lot of money, and when there's bad times, we go into the welfare systems and the measures in the labour market. There are systems in the state's way of setting up the state budget that balance this, which makes us not in bad times make it even worse for people who have it difficult. This system has used the Christian People's Party when they have presented their budgets. I hoped that all the staging representatives were actually aware that the system had these kinds of safety valves in it, which means that we don't get any bad results, especially in bad times. It could have been tempting to spend more money now when we have a lot of money. It may be difficult to understand logically that we can't do that, but I actually expect that parties that have been in government for many years either agree with the system that ensures welfare services in bad times, or that they propose a new system - that they can't later use the money at any time and in any way, without harming us and those who have the hardest, especially in bad times.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e170	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e186	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and up to five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e197	We are currently discussing the position of the Financial Committee on the Law on Tax-Favourised Pension Agreements. The proposal proposes that all persons over 18 years of age be entitled to a deduction from taxable profit for payment of up to NOK 15 000 per year. years of individual pension agreement under specified conditions. The proposal follows up the Storting Decision of 23 April 2007 and is part of the pension agreement. I also point out that the Ministry's proposals have been drawn up in the light of the Banking Act Commission's inquiry into individual pension schemes. This case has, as stated, its anchor in the pension agreement of 21 March 2007 between all parties on the Stortinget except the Progress Party. Here the government parties undertake to introduce a new tax-stimulated individual pension saving scheme with annual savings of up to NOK 15 000. The right, Christian People's Party and the left, among other things, reserved themselves. the right to freedom to propose a saving amount higher than NOK 15000. I'll show you the other way to Innst. S. No 168 for 2006-2007 by the Labour and Social Committee on the generation and withdrawal of old-age pensions in the social security system, and the comments of the majority in this respect. So far from history. The majority of the Financial Committee, consisting of the Government Parties, fully adheres to the bill in the proposal. A minority, consisting of all the opposition parties, has promoted some amendments. This applies mainly to the question of a higher limit on the amount, by setting it at NOK 40000. The same minority proposes that a customer have access to the appointment of a beneficiary allocated to the pension funds at the death of the client and that, if no beneficiary is appointed, the pension capital should go to the death residence. Furthermore, this minority proposes that the Storting undertake a proposal that will contribute to the symmetry of income deductions and the taxation of payments from individual pension schemes. In addition, the Progress Party believes that the deduction amount should ideally follow wage and price developments and be indicated as a share of G. However, no amendment is proposed to this effect. In the following I will give some comments on the individual comments and amendments that I have explained above. First, the issue of fiscal conditions and the threshold of amounts, etc. : EUR 15 000 in annual pension savings will, for most, represent a significant supplement to the occupational pension of the employer. For example, a person with an annual income of NOK 350 000 with an occupational pension scheme according to the minimum requirements of compulsory occupational pension - the so-called OTP scheme - will be entitled to an annual contribution from the employer of NOK 5500. The tax advance is an advantage which, in my view, should be fully applicable to the maximum, and not only to persons with high wealth or high income. By setting a deduction of income at a rate of DKK 15 000, which is an amount that a large proportion of the population will have the opportunity to set aside for annual pension savings, the tax benefits of such a scheme will be maximised. The tax favouring of IPA, which gave an income deduction of NOK 40000, was primarily used by people with high incomes or wealth and, in our opinion, resulted in distributive biases. I would also like to point out that the liquidation of the tax incentives for IPA and annuities must be seen in the context of the introduction of compulsory occupational pension, and not least that self-employed and freelancers have been allowed to set up a pension scheme under the provisions of the Pension Pensions Act. Both economic theory and past experience may suggest that tax incentives for certain savings products only affect the composition of savings and not total savings. This is also largely confirmed by empirical work in the field. A reason is, among other things, such schemes are used in particular by persons with relatively high income and wealth, as I have mentioned earlier. Therefore, as a means of increasing pension savings, such schemes are not effective in relation to the introduction of compulsory occupational pension schemes, where the distribution effects are much better than for individual pension schemes. So over to symmetry between income deduction and taxation: the minority suggests that the Storting decide that the Government should issue a proposal that will contribute to the symmetry of income deductions and the taxation of payments for individual pension schemes. This is probably an expression of a wish that the deduction of payments should be made in person income, i.e. the gross tax base, and not only in general income. The 1992 tax reform introduced two bases for the calculation of income taxes: general income and personal income. This distinction between income bases is a fundamental element of the reform and has been continued. The personal income is a gross tax base for which no deductions are made. Therefore, in view of the context of the tax system, no deduction should be made from the contributions to the new individual pension scheme in the personal income. Such a deduction of income could, in any case, result in a reduction in pensionable income and thus also in a lower pension from social security. Symmetry of the taxation of the new individual pension scheme must be carried out by taxing payments from the pension scheme as general income. However, this would involve different tax treatment of this type of pension scheme compared to other individual and collective pension schemes, thus raising many legal and, not least, practical issues. So a few words about minority proposals in the case of beneficiaries: The minority proposes that a customer have access to the appointment of a beneficiary who is allocated the pension funds at the death of the client and that the pension capital should go to the death residence if no beneficiary is appointed. The Committee also proposes the possibility of appointing the beneficiary under an individual pension scheme linked to a collective occupational pension scheme. Following the draft law, pension capital shall be allocated in the same way as the system chosen by the Pension Pensions Act for allocating pension capital at the death of the member. This means that the pension capital is intended to cover the pension of children who were depended on by the customer and by spouse and that any excess funds are allocated according to the system of the inheritance law. For pension insurance contracts, on the other hand, there is so-called mortality inheritance. The Banking Law Commission was divided into the question of whether there should be access to the appointment of the beneficiary of an individual pension agreement. The Ministry has followed the majority of the Banking Law Commission. A number of hearing bodies include: The Consumer Ombudsman has pointed out that the rules of the Inheritance Act do not always provide for a distribution of pension capital that is consistent with the wishes of the heirs. The same applies to the rules of the Marriage Act that give divorced spouses the right to a pension. If the proposal to appoint the beneficiary is motivated by a desire to distribute the pension funds differently from those resulting from the succession law and the marriage law, this should be done, where appropriate, by amending the laws governing this. It would be unfortunate if the law on tax-favored individual pension schemes opened up to circumvent the rules of inheritance and marriage law. Furthermore, it would be unfortunate to depart from the system incorporated for collective pension schemes, on the distribution of pension capital at the death of the member which prioritizes children and spouses, and which also takes care of the merits of the succession law and the marriage law. Then to the comments of the Progress Party, which believe that the amount of the deduction should ideally follow wage and price developments and, for example, is indicated as a proportion of the G. G. regulation of the limit on income deductions and annual payments were assessed in the context of a similar proposal when this was out of consultation. This will prevent the crown value of what is paid down. I can see that. However, it is not obvious that a G-regulation of these limits would benefit the customer. Annual contributions to pension insurance contracts and related risk agreements, i.e. non-pension, deposit or premium exemptions, survivors’ benefits and child pensions would become more complex to calculate and thus less predictable for the customer and would probably also make it more difficult for institutions to calculate costs. Furthermore, a G-regulation of these thresholds would lead to the loss of practical significance of the pension savings payment plan. Finally, useful enquiries and input have been made by the Swedish Securities Fund Association on interpretation and practice in relation to individual paragraphs. This applies, inter alia, to: different paragraphs of § 1-3 and § 2-1. Here I feel that there is now a mutual understanding of the relationships that the Swedish Securities Fund Association has taken up, and what the department believes is a practical solution. There was no amendment on that, and I also understand that the Swedish Securities Fund Association is satisfied with that interpretation. With this I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e239	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e242	In a good and thorough review, the rapporteur of the case was part of the fact that the limit of NOK 15 000 is sufficient for most people. It's also in the notes. Why does the rapporteur believe this? We know that when the limit was 40 000 kroner, it was actually more than half of those who used it, who earned less than 400000 kroner, so there is no particular evidence to say that this only applies to those with high income and possibly high wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e249	The rationale for the liquidation of the tax favorisation was among other things: the introduction of compulsory occupational retirement provision, which ensured to the vast majority the possibility of supplementary savings to pension contracts which are tax-eligible. In addition, as I mentioned in the introduction, it is also such that we have introduced a supplement for self-employed workers, which allows the establishment of occupational pension schemes in accordance with the minimum requirements for compulsory occupational pension. It is not that certain savings products affect the composition of savings, nor total savings. I think $15,000 is enough to meet most people. There's the Workers' Party and the Right disagree. I think we're going to have arrangements that make people the most able to get under such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e256	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough review of the matter. The case rapporteur has done a very good job with the matter, even though we have areas where we disagree. That's a political disagreement, and that's okay. I registered that the case rapporteur came to the comment of the Progress Party that we believe that the amount of the tax credit should ideally follow the wage and price developments. I registered that the case rapporteur saw some problems with it and did not automatically think that it was a good idea. But when the Workers' Party, the rapporteur's party, now believes that NOK 15 000 is a clear limit, today is not NOK 15 000 the same as NOK 15 000 in 10 years. It is not seen that it is an advantage actually to create a type of system, so that these amounts, for example. in this area, will there be some automatic follow-up to wage and price developments, so that some of those amounts that are reasonable at some point in time do not slow down and the scheme is thus weakened in the years ahead by the fact that the amount is actually less valuable?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e263	As I said in my introduction, I see the reason for the Advance Party to make this proposal, and that this can be weakened over time. But there are some other conditions that make such a plan less predictable for the customer, not least in terms of keeping track of what the plan is, and what it really is you have to pay in. In relation to a payment plan, at least we do not need it. I see it as the representative mentions, but as I said, there may also be other ways to increase the limit. So we have a wish from the majority to have this limit of money as low as possible. There we have a real disagreement about what hits best. Are those who have the highest wealth and the highest income, who are going to get into this, or do we better have an amount that, in our opinion, makes the most people can go into it?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e270	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e273	Let me first of all thank the case rapporteur for a good review of the matter. The Progress Party welcomes the fact that as far as possible people are able to meet their own needs. The law we are debating today is such a law. Last week, the Council of State of this Parliament stated that the need for private savings is lower in Norway than in other countries, because in Norway savings are made on public hands. This analysis is based on a premise that the Progress Party does not share. The Council of State is quite right, of course, that the state is building up an ever-increasing wealth, but the Party of Advances does not share the belief that such a wealth can replace the positive elements of private savings. In the hearing on the credit notification, the Governor stated that, unlike many other countries, Norway does not have what he called ‘anxiety saving’. You can choose this from two sides. It is positive that the majority of the Nordics have confidence that the public will be able to maintain basic well-being. But, as the central bank manager was also in, public savings tend to create unrealistic expectations in the population. No public savings can replace the security and autonomy created by private savings. Freedom of choice related to personal well-being is a key element of the policy of the Progress Party, and incentives related to private savings are therefore positive. In this way, today's proposal for the law on individual pension savings is a small step in the right direction to give people the most back the authority over their own financial disposals. Today's pension system has two pillars. This applies to schemes linked to social security and pensions linked to individual employment. Today's bill is supposed to be the third pillar of the pension scheme. In such a perspective, it is sad that the Government chooses to invest in an annual savings amount that, for most, will mean relatively little at retirement age. The whole opposition therefore stands together on an alternative legislative proposal, on amendments to the bill promoted by the Government, which will allow each employee to save up to DKK 40000 annually with tax deduction. Furthermore, the Progress Party wants this amount to be automatically adjusted annually according to the wage increase and that the amount should be linked to the basic amount of the population’s social security. State Council Halvorsen has stated on several occasions that it is correct to tax people on the principle that they actually have money, despite the fact that the money may have been taxed several times in the past. This believes that the Progress Party is an infringement of ownership and contributes to weakening people's confidence in the tax system. In this way, the Progress Party is not surprised that the Government continues its double taxation through this bill. Like the other opposition parties, the Progress Party is skeptical of the asymmetry to which the taxation of the scheme in the bill provides, because the social security charge and any peak tax have to be paid twice. A person will have to pay social security contributions and top taxes on the income paid into the pension scheme, and pay new social security contributions and risk having to pay new top taxes for the year in which the money is collected. I bring up the proposals promoted by the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e296	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to. [[The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde is on his way down from the pulpit.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e302	It's going to be line change. The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde asked to come back to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e307	I was on my way home.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e312	I am sorry that I was so late to ask for a reply that the representative Tybring-Gjedde was on his way home. I want to get into what the Progress Party is discussing, and which the representative Ulf Leirstein was also involved in the line change, that the amount of tax credit should follow the wage and price developments, and that it is linked to the basic amount of people's money. As I said, I realize that there might be some reason to do that. But then my question is: doesn't the Advancement Party see that there may be reasons that speak against as well, and that it is not obvious that this is an advantage for the customer? I am thinking in particular that this will be a complicated scheme to calculate, and not least it will create little predictability for the customer. Would it not also make it difficult to calculate the costs and the payment plan of such a pension contract? In my view, it will also lose its practical significance.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e321	For the Progress Party, it is most important to ensure that pensioners have the best possible basis and the best possible pension. If that's how the system gets in the way of the payments, you have to do something about the system. If you have to promote a new bill for Stortinget every time you want to change this amount, we think it is unwise. We believe that the pensioners and those who save in this way must have a deposit guarantee and the payment they get on the other side. Whether this creates problems and administrative difficulties, which the representative Jamessen is in, one has to look at, instead of letting those who choose to save suffer because of the system's arrangements. The system then needs to change, the system is wrong. The system needs to be simplified so that pensioners and savings get more paid at the other end.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e326	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e329	The rapporteur has, in an exemplary way, gone through both small and large in this matter. I would like to add some comments to what we disagree about. What we disagree about is that savings have become more restrictive in the country under this government. We have a negative saving in households, while public savings are currently very high and have resulted in Norway having a much higher public financial asset than most other European countries. It creates an imbalance between the public and private sectors and means that most of us leave much to the state to ensure freedom of choice and extra security in old age. It is a clear political goal for the Right to motivate more people to save, and at least we find it difficult to find arguments that this is not positive for individuals, for families and also for society. Saving is a long-term arrangement for individuals included in long-term liabilities, and it follows responsibility. Therefore, it is important that the State ensures predictability of the conditions. In the matter we are debating today, it is precisely the reverse that is the history. The State has acted as a private saved relatively predictable partner. Two years ago, when the red-green government announced the closure of all tax-stimulated pension savings, individual and collective annuity savings, and later carried out the same harvest during the budgetary procedure, this caused a very strong response by the savers. They experienced this as a clear breach of contract by the state, and there were unusually many protests against this intervention. In fact, there were as many as 800,000 individual IPA and annuity agreements, and in 2005 almost DKK 8 billion were paid into such schemes. Nor were these arrangements for the so-called rich. It is well documented, as I also took up in my reply a moment ago, that over half of those who used these arrangements earned less than 400,000 kroner. Thus, private pension schemes were used by people with a full average wage ratio. In addition, it was especially by the Government to cut out these schemes at the top of a high economic cycle where private consumption was very high. However, the proposals gave rise to such a protest storm both politically and from people most that it was in the cards that a system would be reintroduced. If this had not been done, significant amounts could have been released and contributed to increasing the pressure on the economy and the pressure on interest rates further. The government eventually had to accept the reintroduction of tax-stimulated pension savings – and that is good – with overly modest amounts. But the important thing is that the scheme is in place and can provide a good starting point for expansions in the limits of amounts at a later stage. Then it's interesting to note that there is an overall opposition behind the proposal to increase the amount limit today. There was an overall opposition to this, even at the budgetary procedure last autumn, on an annual savings of DKK 40000, and on the fact that the deductions from the deposits would have been symmetrically taxed in relation to the taxation of pensions. It is good for saving that the opposition is united. The new legislative proposal also exempts savers from the freedom to choose, within certain limits, who, in the event of death, will have the pension capital of tax-favoured schemes. It is an freedom of choice and a right of disposal that is important for individuals. The right considers that such freedom of choice should be maintained and has proposed an amendment to the law in this area. We are there supported by a relatively large minority in the Banking Law Commission, which is of the same opinion, and it has been supported by a large number of hearing bodies, in fact with the Consumer Ombudsman at the head, as the case-rapporteur also explained. Our proposals have already been addressed by others. To the extent that it's not done, I'll take them up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e348	The President can confirm that they have already been taken up by the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e353	The background to today’s government party’s liquidation of the scheme, as far as I remember, May 2006 was among other things. the introduction of a compulsory occupational pension, which ensures for the most part the possibility of supplementary savings to pension contracts which are taxable. In addition, self-employed persons are granted access to the establishment of an occupational pension scheme in accordance with the minimum requirements for compulsory occupational pension. Point 1: Does the representative Svein Fleet disagree with the fact that this has a better hit point for most people? The second is - as economic theory and other experiences show - that tax incentives for certain savings products only affect the composition of savings and not total savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e362	I see that the government parties also write about compulsory occupational pension in the setting. It is a very small supplement and means relatively little in relation to the amounts involved in the pension saving that we are now discussing. With regard to moving money - because that's what the representative Jamessen really asks about - that you move wealth when you have tax incentives, I'm of that opinion, and it also showed that a lot of people with incomes below 400,000 dollars were saving in these schemes. It wasn't particularly wealthy people, but it was people who simply took responsibility for their own lives by using their acid-acquired money for this saving and for their old age.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e369	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e372	The matter we are dealing with today is a direct consequence of the pension agreement that was concluded, in which we agreed to reintroduce a private pension scheme, as Alf E. Jakobsen has explained. When a new private pension scheme was to be introduced, the scheme we have reached today is severally more neutral and better than the old private pension schemes, such as: was slaughtered quite dramatically by the magazine Your Money, and as there was subsequently a broad consensus on favoring a good deal of poor savings products that people chose, and was advised to choose, precisely because there was tax deduction for them. I'm here to save people. But there is always a question of the extent to which the community is going to enter into special tax arrangements for people who are in fact so wealthy that they can afford to save. Therefore, I think it is very important to say that when we first introduce such a savings scheme, we keep to the amount of NOK 15 000 instead of increasing the amount, as the opposition suggests, to NOK 40000. I find it strange that parties who are often talking about how important it is to spend money on combating poverty go in and say that it is important to make sure to increase the amount limit in a savings scheme where it is quite obvious that a scheme where those who can afford to spend NOK 40,000 per year in an individual pension scheme are at the expense of money that the community could otherwise have spent on other things. I notice that the Progress Party brings with it the following ideological gold grains, namely, that ‘as much as possible people are able to meet their own needs’. I think it's interesting in a society where we've actually chosen to make sure that we make savings for old age together. It's both fair and good because we've provided a pension scheme where those with the highest income are involved in financing pensions for people with lower income. That's what we saw in social security this year, where we helped raise the minimum pensioners quite significantly. Another point that is also important in the context of a common scheme is that there is a much more effective way of saving than if everyone were to run around and operate on private pension schemes. This last one is described very thoroughly by Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel Prize winner in Economics, who clearly shows how much the loss is, and how much the transfers to marketing and transaction costs are in the form of fees and fees to financial brokers, if you choose to rely on individual pension schemes. It's obvious that this is something that Christian Tybring-Gedde is strictly ideological about, rather than the kind of joint pension scheme that we have here. There's quite a curious contrast to the fact that Christian Tybring-Gjedde at the same time says that the pensioners should secure the highest possible pension. The question is then: how can you be able to say that people must save as much as possible their own pensions, in order to relate to the point that the maximum pension is to be provided to pensioners as far as possible? There is no doubt that the system that we in the government parties are applying, namely that savings should be made as far as possible under the Community's control, is the type of saving that benefits most, regardless of the kind of income you have had in your working life. Once we've reached a pension settlement, I'm glad we've managed to get together on the scheme we have here. Then we will certainly have more debates in the years to come, both on the limits of the amount and other aspects of retirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e386	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e389	In his post, the representative Holmås stretched from Stiglitz to your money. That's the last statement I was going to take a little bit of hold of. I understood the representative that the closure of the savings schemes was due to something that Your Money has also written about, namely that people placed their money in products that they didn't like, that there were bad products, that they got bad returns, etc. There may well be a reason to wind up this scheme. How does the representative Holmås feel about control in the future? This problem is just as full with a limit of NOK 15 000 as with a limit of NOK 40000.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e398	It will be very important to take care of the control activities. I mean, and I think that also the representative fleet agrees that when we have a more neutral system like the one we have today, there could be more different types of savings products where we are going to have this type of deduction scheme, i.e. favourable tax deductions, which means that today's system will be better than the old one, but that remains to be seen. Here we have a great job to do. The consumer media, the supervisory bodies of the credit supervision and not least we politicians have a job to do by making sure that the savings products that are now being offered to people are the best possible. I hope that both the representative Fleet and I will deal with both the finance minister and others in the years to come, if we see that we again get a good deal of savings products that are simply bad for people to save in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e403	I must say there was political lobster and canary in the post that the representative Holmås held. I don't know what I'm going to get into first, but I can take this with poverty. He almost accuses the parties who have claimed to be interested in that field, saying that they should not go for NOK 40,000, as I could understand. After all, it is quite bold of a government that, in the revised budget, has not proposed a single further action against poverty, to make that kind of statement. Then I realized that there would be a contrast between fighting poverty and working for a tax deduction when you save on your own pension. There are a lot of people who don't make a lot of money, but still have the power to save. My question on the basis of that is: Would the representative Holmås prefer that they drive with consumption instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e412	I think it's nice that people save -- as I said in the post -- but I don't see any reason why the community should give priority to the resources we have, in that way we're going to give most to those who have the most money to put in the account, so they're going to save on their own pension. I think it's a little bit of a special policy. I also think that this proposal has been incorporated into the range of proposals that part of the opposition - not in all contexts of the Christian People's Party - has joined, namely, where one goes in and gives relief to the inheritance tax on properties that are just benefiting those who inherit the greatest and best properties, and the exemption from the tax on wealth, which I know that an overall opposition wants to abolish - albeit at a slightly different pace and to different degrees, but which, however, comes first and foremost to those who have assets. Then this looks very special to me. Because if you can afford it in these areas, you can also afford it in other areas. We think that's right to give priority instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e421	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e424	I really didn't intend to follow up the estimate of a poverty debate with the representative Holmås, but I registered at least that there were no new examples of what the government is doing in that way. It's probably essentially saying most of the time in this context as well. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased with the pension agreement that came about last year, and I believe that the point of a scheme with the possibility of tax deductions for individual pension agreements also contributed to that. We disagree on the amount, but it is stated in the agreement that it is okay. Then we'll see if you're from e.g. 2010 has a slightly different amount than what is being opened for now, i.e. NOK 15 000. As we know - in different budgetary contexts, the opposition is in favour of a deduction of NOK 40000. I really just want to pay tribute to the legal work that has been done. The representative Fleet, on behalf of the opposition, has given some explanations of the dissidents we have, but in sum we are absolutely pleased with what the arrangement is now looking like. Then, as far as others were concerned, there is a question of how this is now managed by those who offer this type of insurance and pension contracts. We have to make sure that both the administrative costs, the start-up costs and the accommodation options are such that those who buy these contracts actually understand them and are also aware of the costs that fall on their hands. But here we have contributed so far through legal tightening, and I expect that supervision also follows up this part of the case, while at the same time we have a vigilance press that has fortunately done its job to put the search light on some unfortunate questions related to just this kind of financial advice. With that, we give our support to the vote and the minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e437	This is therefore a proposal for a law on a tax-advanced individual pension savings where persons over the age of 18 can receive a tax-payable income deduction of up to NOK 15 000. To put it practically, this grain is threshed at least twice before in this room, and then there are few new cereals to get out of the debate, but I will give my mind. The disagreement is that the opposition wants a limit of NOK 40 000 instead of NOK 15 000. The limit of NOK 15 000 could add significantly to the individual’s pension savings. The centre party is in a strong savings tradition. We're basically positive for saving, and we're very satisfied with the main savings incentive scheme we've had in Norway in the post-war period, that's access for those who don't have much to get their own housing by deducting debt interest when you've acquired your own cheap home. It has been the most important savings incentive scheme. It has led to a very healthy and good development in Norway, and there is a system that many fences are hot about. What is at the heart of this case is the balance between the savings-stimulating measures and the allocation considerations. Thus, there is a balance between the necessary pension savings as well as the social security and compulsory occupational pension, and the tax-stimulated saving of future pensions. Under the scheme, the money is tied to the retirement age and excluding property taxes and current taxes on income. The central party is strongly behind the government's proposal. We have noted the opposition's remarks that in 2007 households had a negative savings rate, which the government has also carried out with strength. With a more normal level of interest rates, the savings will probably change slightly in 2008. We focus on saving, but if I were to say something about the future, then in terms of tax-favored saving, one should aim more unequivocally at the scheme that could have a more positive effect than this: BSU, Housing saving for young people, with tax deductions, so that one could stimulate young people to a greater degree of savings behaviour in order to acquire their own housing. So the center part is behind the setting. There is a sobering balance between savings incentives and distribution considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e452	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e455	Only a brief comment to the representative Holmås, who is no longer in the room, who stated the incredible that it is better with public savings than that people should run around and save themselves. Then the representative Holmås misunderstood something fundamental, namely the self-value of saving, self-value by saving for his own future, instead of believing and hoping that the public would do so. This is also the argument of the Progress Party for tax relief, namely that people get more disposable income and can assess their own well-being, and not allow government councils in the various departments to assess what is to be done free of charge, regardless of what people need. If people want to spend the money one way, they're going to be allowed to do it. Instead of being socialists running around and saying what we're going to do for free for everyone, the Progress Party wants most people to be able to control their own money to a greater extent than today. We're going to have basic funding for the basic tasks -- it's going to be financed by the public. But over the other problems, most people have to decide. Whether they want to give their money to their children, whether they want to travel to the South, whether they want to sit in a pub and drink beer, is up to every single person. That is what is freedom for the individual and the Progress Party, and that is why we want tax relief. The impact of the Community policy pursued by the Government has become that more and more people are totally dependent on public transfers. More and more people live on social security, more and more people live on social schemes, and more and more people depend on subsidies in any context. This is thought to be an unfortunate development for Norway. It is not what the Progress Party considers to be common. Then everyone gathers in the booth, and that's not a good strategy. It's better to raise the strong to bring the weak and the less prosperous to a higher level. Instead of giving money to everyone over a low shoe, it is better to provide opportunities for those who are strong and can create jobs and provide opportunities for those who are further down. The Progress Party believes that. But the government believes that everyone should be helped, and thus believes that poverty is being combated. We see the result today: poverty is not being combated. On the other hand, poverty is increasing, and more and more people are living on public transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e464	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e481	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each group and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e490	As Odelstinget does, we are now making a few changes to the tax regime in June, for 2007. It will be easier for private employers to get an overview of what they need to do to hire household help, joiners, etc. legally. There are two main steps to get to this. Firstly, the limit on the payment of an employer’s fee for private and recreational work is increased from NOK 50 000 to NOK 60 000. This means that when the total annual salary paid by the household does not exceed NOK 60000, no employer’s contribution is payable. Payment for private passports of children under 12 years of age and children with special needs is currently exempt from the employer’s fee regardless of the amount of the pay. Secondly, the limits of the amounts that determine when the various simplified arrangements for the payment of tax credits can be used will be coordinated, so that a common limit of NOK 60000 can be reached. In those cases where the total salary paid is DKK 60000 or less, two alternative settlement arrangements for tax credits can then be chosen: one can draw on a normal tax credit account and pay the total amount to the country once a year, not six times a year as other employers have to. Alternatively, you can notify and pay advance payments to the country on each payroll payment. Anyone using the latter simplified scheme will not obtain the number of the organisation and set up their own tax credit account, as other employers will have to. Such simplifications are important in the fight against black work. I think this is a better measure than for example. tax exemptions for work at home, as some other batches have proposed. The challenge is to make this action known, so that people use it. In the share bill there are also some adjustments/establishments in the company tax scheme. The proposals relate to the conversion of last autumn’s ship’s cabotage. The main thing is that the time period for the transitional arrangements for the entry into the accounting system is extended to 1 January 2009 so that all companies have time to reorganise in time to enter the accounting value scheme. The other changes are adjustments/establishments of a more technical and systemic nature. The minority of the financial committee has objections to the effective date of one of the adjustments. In the event of changes in the shipping tax last autumn, rules were adopted to ensure that, when companies enter into the scheme from ordinary taxation, latent tax liabilities relating to these activities are taxed. Taxation shall take place, inter alia: when shares in participating companies are realised to companies within the scheme. In the event of an error, this legal provision only mentions ‘sales’ and not other types of realization, such as: deposits on shares. This error is proposed to be corrected so that the tax cannot be circumvented by realising shares in companies within the scheme other than through sale. The entry into force of this Regulation is set at 5 October 2007, i.e. the same date as the original rule entered into force. In the new company tax scheme, when a company chooses to move activities that have been outside the scheme into the scheme, all latent tax liabilities shall be settled. This involves technically complex rules, but the basic intention is clear: all latent obligations must be settled. The clarification proposed in the fourth paragraph of Section 8-14 of the Tax Act implies the creation of an obvious incurrency and thus the sealing of a possible hole in the rules. This is hardly unexpected on anyone. To let not close again such a hole I see no reason to. Furthermore, there is hardly any change in the substance of the rules at this point, but to bring the text of the law more into line with the interpretation which had to be based on the equivalency authorities, in accordance with the intentions of the Equilateral Decision. Also the preparations of the original rule, cf. Ot. pp. No 1 for 2007-2008, supports this, using the wording ‘realisation’ and ‘sales’. The government has recorded that the time period for the transitional rules on entry into accounting values was too short and proposes a change to that point. However, the previous lack of transitional rules does not excuse those who may have chosen to use a possible regulatory hole. So a little bit about increasing the number of appointments for the payment of petroleum taxes. We go in to increase the number of payment appointments for petroleum tax from two to six semesters. All the hearing bodies that expressed their views were in favour of this increase, so that the entire committee joins the proposal without any comments. The background to the proposal is that the large payments of petroleum taxes affect the execution of bank settlements and create uncertainty in the money market. The tax system should not have such adverse effects. So another point. Amendments to the Equation Act for the fishing and fishing industries are proposed. Firstly, an authorisation to impose on fish sales laws an obligation to provide information to the authorities of the equation on the value of all the turnover of raw fish traded or authorised by the sales organisation. Secondly, we are now proposing a basis for the equality authorities to charge fees for late or unsubmitted pay and draw tasks for employers in the fishing and fishing industries. Such control tasks from the fish sales teams could contribute to the detection of income that has been tried and hidden from taxation, as well as to the expectation of a preventative effect on black labour. The equality authorities have the right to charge employers in other industries, and this should also be the case for the fishing and fishing industries. We are today adopting a new basis for the authorities to obtain control information on the use of foreign payment cards in Norway. The background to this is that the establishment of bank accounts abroad is an offer that is easily accessible and open to all. International control experience shows that the use of foreign payment cards linked to a bank account abroad is a common method of using money hidden abroad, either for tax reasons or because they originate from criminal activities. The background to the proposal is that the Equation Authorities are currently unable to identify the holder or user of such foreign payment cards. Control of the use of foreign payment cards in Norway could reveal funds placed abroad that are not taxed here. In addition, the controls can identify persons who are actually resident in Norway and who should be taxed here but who claim that they live abroad. The measure is also assumed to have a certain preventive effect. The proposal implies that the traders will have to provide some more information and possibly make some technical adjustments, but the government assumes that this will not be difficult to implement, and we have to deal with that. Mutual fire and livestock insurance companies are currently exempt from tax liability. The exemption constitutes an unfortunate distortion of competition between various insurance companies and is problematic in relation to State aid law under the EEA Agreement. Moreover, the legal provision is unclear and the original justification is no longer applicable. The Committee notes that the Ministry of Finance is considering proposing to the Stortinge to abolish the tax exemption with effect from the 2008 income year in the context of the 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e541	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e544	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good review. It is true that the vast majority of the changes promoted by the Government are unanimous on the part of the Finance Committee, and the rapporteur has also noted this. Towards the end of the rapporteur's statement, she addressed this by giving the authorities of the equation an opportunity to obtain control information on the use of foreign payment cards. In the course of the Committee's proceedings, an overall opposition has a non-majority of comments. You agree to the amendment, but in many ways you are concerned about the development you see of more and more information to be shared, and that this may to some extent be free of privacy. An overall opposition says in its comment that it will nevertheless support the proposal, but that it ‘will closely monitor developments in the future’. Since the majority have not joined the note: do not the Workers' Party and the Government's parties share this concern that there will be an increasing amount of surplus information that can be misused in relation to privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e553	In this case, as in some other matters relating to personal data, there are different considerations that collide. Privacy is important, but it is also important to collect money for taxation according to the law we have. The world is getting smaller, it's probably going to say -- not larger, but it's getting smaller -- in the sense that we live and travel and move across borders, and it also opens the possibility that many more can try to avoid taxation. The kind of tax evasion is very unfortunate for all of us who pay the tax we must and should. In the worst case, it may mean increased taxes for those who pay their taxes in Norway, while others, who then use other options and reduce taxes, do not. So it could mean higher tax levels, which are bad. So there are different considerations that need to be taken care of, and in this context, tax considerations are most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e562	The government is proposing to increase the deduction of fish. It's excellent, even though it's a little late and a little bit small. In this context, reference is made to the tightening of the net pay scheme. In the context of the revision, the Government has, in my opinion, made a little hole in the principle that the net pay scheme should apply in full. Does the representative Agdestein think that net pay arrangements for the various areas of shipping contribute to an increase in wages? It is assumed that they do so, i.e. pay increases more when you have net pay arrangements, so that you should look into the net pay schemes and what it does with the pay level as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e569	The net pay system is a result of international competition, because there are other countries that have such a type of scheme, which we have also seen fit to introduce. In the years that we have behind us now, there has been strong growth in the industries affected by this. It's become a payroll -- maybe it's supposed to be -- that's partly distorting between industries. Therefore, it is correctly observed by the representative Fleet that we have done something about that exact relationship. What we're going to do, if we don't, we're going to get back to it on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e576	Let me grasp this last answer, for it has become quite clear, not at least in the last few years, the unreasonableness of the fact that seafarers working on a passenger boat between Norway and abroad or on supply boats in the North Sea are going to drop taxes, while seafarers who lie for days and perhaps weeks on shrimp fishing outside Greenland are going to be so severely discriminated against. The government takes a little bit of the consequence of this obvious unfairness, and - in parentheses, noted - at a time when we lack labour and need labour that is able to pay taxes in many areas of society, increasing the fishing deduction is good. It obviously does not correct this unfairness, but with the adjustments made in the net pay scheme, I see this as the Government is now on its way. The representative then answers that this may be returned on a later occasion. Is there reason to expect that we will already be able to see in the current period that the Government goes further in correcting this obvious unfairness and misuse of money in Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e583	I was also aware before this change of lines that Left and Lars Sponheim are strongly opposed to the net pay system. It is not the Workers' Party and the other red-green parties. We might have to make changes, so that it doesn't get so enormously expensive and gets intentions that aren't desirable. And I repeat, as I said to the previous replicator, if we're going to look at it and make changes in the future, I can't answer that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e589	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e592	What we are dealing with in this matter are the tax and tax changes that we are making in connection with the revised national budget and some other laws in addition to the tax and tax legislation. The Progress Party has had as its starting point the fact that this is a revision of the budget. These are the points made in the bill, and the proposals that need to be made due to changes that have occurred since the government budget was presented, which our comments focus primarily on. One of the changes that came up now, and that the case-speaker initiated here, is the changes in the rules for private work in the home, etc. Here a committee proposes to increase the exemption from the employer’s tax from NOK 50 000 to NOK 60000 for work in the home and leisure accommodation other than for the care of children. Of course, the progress party has no problem in supporting a proposal to increase this limit on the exemption from the employer's fee from NOK 50 000 to NOK 60 000, but we have expressed our belief in the fact that this will have a noticeable effect on the use of so-called black work. We're of the opinion that the tax pressure in Norway is too high, and that's why there's a black market today. We therefore believe that the tax burden must be greatly reduced, which the Progress Party believes will be an effective contribution to reducing the use of undeclared work. Of course, simplifications like the ones shown here are good, and we're waiting to see how many simplifications happen in practice. We mean, of course, that all the simplifications are good, but we don't think it's enough in this case. Then there are also suggestions to increase the fisherman's deduction. This deduction is currently a maximum of 80 000 kroner. The majority proposes to increase this to NOK 115,000. The progress party sees this as a step in the right direction, but thinks it's not sufficient. In this context, we show that the Progress Party proposes an increase in the seafarer’s and fisherman’s deduction in connection with the treatment of the 2008 State budget to NOK 160 000. This proposal is re-examined in the light of the fact that the competitive situation has worsened further since the 2008 state budget was approved. So that's why we think it's necessary to bring it up again. We note that the Government does not propose to give the seamen the same increase in maximum deduction, and that there will be a running figure of 80,000 kroner with its plural arrangement. We are therefore proposing an increase also for seafarers to NOK 160 000, and it is mainly for seafarers who are not covered by the net pay system that we have in mind. We think it's important that they are treated on the same line as fishermen. For those who are covered by the net pay scheme, this will probably not give such a very large figure, because we expect the reindeer and the reindeer teams to draw this into the wage negotiations. In the case of the réarlag tax system, both the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left refer to the clarification of the wording of the fourth paragraph of the Tax Act § 8-14 to apply not only to the hall, but to all types of realizations, and we indicate that the legal clarification is already in force from 5 October 2007. This is also something the case spokesperson had in mind. This means that transactions other than those made by a taxpayer after that date, which he had to assume were not covered by the rule, now have entirely different, negative tax consequences than foreseen at the date of the transaction. We believe that it is unfortunate that missing transitional rules have resulted in a completely different effect from what one would expect when the transaction was carried out. An overall opposition therefore proposes a change in the entry into force at this point, and suggests that this effect should only take effect from the beginning of the 2008 income year. It is also proposed to provide an authorisation to the equality board to obtain control information on the use of foreign payment cards. The party of progress, similar to the rest of the opposition, supports this, but we share the Data Protection Authority's concerns about privacy violations by providing surplus information. We will therefore be following developments in the future carefully and, if necessary, continuously considering whether to propose tightening. Although this is not directly mentioned in the setting, I will include two charges where the Progress Party proposes a reduction in relation to the revised national budget. One is the petrol and diesel tax, which we propose a reduction of NOK 2.50. This is not a dispute about the state budget, but it is simply the simple point that when we adopted the state budget, we created a crude oil price and a level of charges that would result in a pump price for the consumers and for the caristics of approx. NOK 11 per year. liters. So now he's approx. 2,50 kroner - and above it - higher than what one saw, and then we found it natural and appropriate in the context of the revised national budget to reduce to the level envisaged during the treatment of the government budget. This will cost about $3.2 billion, but at the same time, the government is expected to get maybe $150 billion more than that, because of the increase in the crude oil price. That's why we think this is a cost that is both right and reasonable and that we absolutely can afford. Another charge change that we're proposing is to reduce the VAT on food from 14 to 12 pst. This is then a proposal that the Center Party has previously been very busy with, as well, like the Progress Party. The reason we are now making this proposal in the context of the revised national budget is that food prices have increased, and they will also increase more in the future than was natural to expect when we deal with the state budget. So we're proposing a 2 pst tax cut. on food. It's also an important contribution to those who have the least to travel with, for those who have the least to walk with use a larger proportion of their disposable income to buy food for those who have very good finances. Otherwise, the opposition has made many proposals that the Progress Party has previously supported and in which we are still some. But because this is a revision of the budget, we have not joined these proposals. Of course, that doesn't mean -- I'm going to emphasize -- that we disagree with these proposals, but on the other hand, we don't want a rematch in this game. We will come back to these proposals in the ordinary budgetary procedures, and we hope that the rest of the opposition will. Maybe we can also get multiple numbers for some of the suggestions with time and times. Finally, I would like to re-submit the proposals in the section to which the Progress Party is a proposal maker or co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e624	The representative Gjermund Hagesetter has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e629	The representative Hagesetter himself showed that there was strong price pressure on food and fuel. I wonder what the Progress Party intends to do to ensure that a tax cut at such a time as there is so much price pressure will not end up in the pockets of business and all the joints associated with it with oil production and distribution of it - and the same applies to food production and distribution - but will benefit customers without building up a large bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e634	The answer to that is simple and straightforward. It's that we want to ensure good competition. We will stimulate the best possible competition. And then we are absolutely sure that such a cut will benefit consumers. This was also shown when we had the debate about cutting fuel prices, that it would end up in the pockets of the gas station owners. I have never seen any figures indicating that a country with a lower petrol charge than Norway has a higher service margin for service stations than one has in Norway. Therefore, I believe that if one stimulates constructive and good competition, consumers will benefit from the reduction in both VAT on food and also the tax on petrol.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e639	The representative Hagesetter is right that he mentions some things that strictly do not belong to this debate, so I use the chance, me too. I am busy with the system that the Progress Party adds in terms of fuel taxes. One thing is that it obviously becomes bureaucratic, and most likely much of the tax relief will somehow disappear before it benefits consumers. We have experience of this, for example. when we reduced VAT on food for a number of years ago. However, some other goods are dependent on consumers in Norway, for example. clothing, which has become significantly cheaper in the last 15-20 years. The logic of the argument for the Progress Party is maybe that you should put VAT back on food, because there is a loss in the state of VAT revenue. But it's not very useful to spend time now. The party of progress has had the opportunity to reduce fuel taxes earlier in cooperation with the Right and other parties here in Stortinget. What I'm asking is, can the representative Hagesets guarantee that the fuel charges will be reduced to a future civil government in cooperation with the Right and possibly the other centre parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e648	What I can guarantee is that the Progress Party will work to reduce the fuel charge. The representative Mikalsen referred to clothes, but it's actually a certain difference, because Norway doesn't produce that much clothes. On the other hand, we produce a lot of crude oil, and we export a lot of crude oil. So when the price goes up, the state is getting richer, while the caristics are getting poorer. And in a country that exports crude oil, one should fix it. I would also like to remind you that among the ten largest oil exporting countries, only Russia and Norway do not subsidise the pump price to consumers. Nor has the Progress Party proposed. On the other hand, we have proposed a strong reduction in fuel taxes, and that is what we will work for in the future to realise.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e657	Both in the food industry and in the oil industry, I believe that there is free competition. I wonder whether the representative, Mr Hagesetter, believes that there is so much competition in the daily food industry in Norway, and that this is why the lower food tax we set down in the past did not benefit consumers accordingly. I wonder what concrete things the representative intends to do with the competition if he believes it is too bad now.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e662	I guess I'm not the one who claims that competition is bad. Representatives from the red-greens claim that competition is so bad that if it reduces VAT, the reduction in VAT will go to the shoppers rather than to the consumers. I believe that competition will lead to a reduction in fuel taxes that will benefit consumers. Of course, we want to do that by making sure that there is a good competition, that there is no cooperation between the players in the industry. We also have the Competition Authority that is looking after. I'm pretty sure it's a good competition. It may be that he can be even better. At least we want to make the best possible way for a good competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e669	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e672	The tax proposition of the Government in the context of the revised budget this year is not a comprehensive document. It might well allow you to say that. It doesn't contain that much. Although we are in the middle of a fiscal year, it would have been possible for the Government to take a few minor steps in tax policy that could show a direction for business, for value creation and the private economy of people, and that would allow people to save and thus create their own private well-being. We don't see that. What we've seen in these dirty three years from the red-green government has been essentially tax cuts. In particular, this applies to increases in the property tax on ownership of Norwegian enterprises. It is harmful, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises which do not have the resources to meet such costs when the return may be poor. So to the proposition. There are two things I want to mention. The first one concerns the fishermen's deduction, which I've been in for a string exchange. It is interesting that the Government now realizes that the net pay system creates a pressure on the labour market, on competition - i.e. a distortion of competition - among others. in the fisheries sector, but not only in it. When we are soon up to NOK 2 billion in annual costs for the scheme, I think it is good to start looking at this. We have also proposed to increase the fishing deduction further, just for the same reason that the government has had. We've also suggested it earlier, because we've seen this problem at an earlier point in time. So a few words about the shipping tax, on which the rapporteur went. She said that the clarification proposed in the fourth paragraph of Section 8-14 of the Tax Act is unnecessary, because it involves an incurrency and thus a hole in the tax law. I think those who do this deal with the law as it is. It should therefore be correct. There may have been arrangements that you didn't have the prerequisites to know about, have the right knowledge of when you did. That is why we have proposed a different date of entry into force. I also allow myself in this context, since it is probably the last possibility, to comment on the environmental part of the tax credits withdrawn in the shipping tax, even though this is not in the proposition. The final result of this. The final result of this was, as we know, that the Government failed to fulfil the promise to facilitate the accounting of the third party as equity. We've seen a curative attempt to solve this problem by getting an investigation from a couple of NHH professors saying that in some cases it might be thought that the environmental component can be accounted for as equity. But those who are responsible for the relationship with the legislation, namely the auditors of the Norwegian Auditor's Association, are crystal clear that this report does not entail any change in their follow-up to the legislation. If the Government now believes that this NHH investigation professionally indicates that in some cases the environmental component can be accounted for as equity, it would be my expectation to follow this up with adapted guidelines and rules in relation to the retrospective shipping tax - and preferably in cooperation with the Auditor's Association, so that a solution can be found that is professionally sound and acceptable by those who, after all, have to put their final stamp on the accounts of companies. There's some of the knot in this. In addition to what has been proposed, some individual proposals in this position are promoted on the right. The basis for these proposals is that it is worth working, that the lack of labour is important, not least it is important to get people back to work. There is some background to our proposal on the deduction of taxes on health care paid by employers and insurance costs. Secondly, savings must be made, and we have had a debate on this earlier today. Saving also helps to dampen the pressure in the economy, and enables people to take more responsibility for themselves, for their own lives. That is why we want to improve the tax-advanced savings schemes, such as individual pension savings, individual annuities and the BSU, i.e. the housing savings scheme for young people. We are also concerned with generational shifts, both in business and for families. That is why we repeat our proposals to facilitate the inheritance tax in the event of a generation change in business. This is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have the same opportunity for a lower-cost inheritance as larger enterprises with larger resources, which can use long-term and long-term resources. We propose half the employer's fee for apprentices. There is a great shortage of labour, especially the skilled, in many sectors. There's a big drop-out in high school. Young people have difficulty entering the labour market, and we believe it is important to stimulate enterprises and employers to take young people into training. We are also proposing to increase the depreciation rate for operating funds, in the so-called balance group c, i.e. car combinations and vans. There are generally good times in business, and then it is right to stimulate initial investment. However, the transport-dependent industries, in particular with the fuel prices we see at times, need to increase profitability, which will provide increased depreciation opportunities in the long term - of course in addition to environmental benefits by making the fleet more recent and environmentally adapted. Overall, I think it must be allowed to say that part of our proposals - and not least that in many cases the opposition stands together - indicates a different direction in some areas than the Government has proposed. There are important areas that I hope the Government may come back more strongly at the next crossroads, which is immediately over the summer holidays. I take up the suggestions that we have with others, and those that we are alone in.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e694	The representative has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e697	I have not submitted to the big debate. I agree with the majority position on those points where there is largely unanimity in the committee, and will mention only some of the points where the Christian People's Party either alone or jointly with the other opposition has divergent proposals. The first, as mentioned in the debate, is linked to the proposal for increased deductions from fishing. There's a meeting with the government industry, but together with other opposition parties, we're increasing our deduction proposal to 150 000 kroner. There is no doubt that the Government's proposal comes as a result of a very good net pay scheme, which I understand is that the Government now feels so good that you start with some - albeit relatively small - limitations. The representative Lundtägen was in the previous case concerned with saving, and he highlighted especially Housing saving for Youth. The opposition is happy to meet in this matter. It may be too much to hope for the support of the representative Lundtigen, but I think he agrees with the intention. In line with a proposal we have previously been dealing with, it is also being promoted by us, together with others, proposals for tax exemptions for research institutes - in order to overcome the ambiguity. Similarly, a proposal for a deceased inheritance tax is made if family holdings continue after a generation change, with a depreciation of more than 10 years. I have noticed with interest that a sample in the Center Party not only supports it, but will have a double rate of depreciation. When you don't get five years, at least I expect the Center Party to support ten years, as the opposition suggests in this setting. Otherwise, we also ask the Government to look at the possibility that employers who pay collective travel for their employees will have an opportunity to deduct this. In addition, we ask the Government to consider - it is a little controversial - whether to tax those who have free parking space at their workplaces in the larger cities, in order to use both carrots and whips to promote more environmentally friendly transport. Fortunately, the social arrangements for self-employed people have had something done with the previous year. 1 July of this year. We go a little further in our proposal in this matter. The same is true of a repetition of the Christian People's Party: supporting voluntary activities and increasing the gift allowance to NOK 18 000. We have a tight labour market, and we have good early retirement schemes. We also propose a tax deduction of NOK 3000 for 62-year-olds and 63-year-olds who work and do not receive any form of pension. At the other end of the scale, we propose to cut the cut-off for 68-year-olds and 69-year-olds, who today have a curtailment of their pension if they are at work. With this I address the minority proposals that the Christian People's Party has in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e718	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e721	I just want to get into four points in the present setting. The first concerns the simplification of the payment of an employer’s fee in the case of private domestic work. The government now agrees with a proposal that one should not pay such an employer’s fee until one has paid NOK 60000, while the amount previously was NOK 50000. At the same time, an unlimited exemption from the payment of the employer’s fee for the private care of children under 12 years of age and for the care of children with special needs continues. It's a model, and it's a nice change from the Government. I would appeal to the Government to implement similar simplifications in other areas where the legislation and the payments are more to the detriment of the individual than to the benefit of the Treasury. There are a number of such rules that involve many people and could have been similarly simplified to the benefit of others. The next point concerns the fisherman's deduction. It's a special fisherman deduction that means you can get a 30 pst deduction. of net work income from fishing and fishing, up to a limit of DKK 80000. The maximum limit is raised to NOK 115000. It's a positive step. Once again, the shipping system is a theme. The most important thing that is the management of environmental funds - how the rules are to be understood in terms of accounting equity. For the Government, it has been important to establish rules to enable part of what the Government calls tax liabilities under the Company Tax Scheme for 1996 to be accounted for as equity. The question is how to practice it. There was a longer debate on this matter in Odelstinget on 24 April, where I also addressed that question. I then said that this should be popular about «equity with liabilities». If this was unclear in relation to current accounting regulations, it must be clarified in the light of that understanding and that the new understanding then is equity with liabilities. What was the government's concept in that debate was qualifying environmental measures. There is something that will be followed up in this setting. Thus, in the case of investments in qualifying environmental measures, it avoids taxation when entering the scheme. Finally, there is a question of mutual fire and livestock insurance companies. There is a rule from the tax law of 1911, where mutual fire and livestock insurance companies are exempt from tax liability. What is important in the review that the Government has promised is that one goes to the source and looks at what was the background of the exemption. And the purpose of the exemption for that type of company at the time was that one would have the opportunity to raise a fund so that one could have reasonable premiums, so that one would have many with him. Now there are many of them, but what remains, in line with the original purpose, is that the mutual society has the purpose of not taking money out of the company. In other words, it is a mutual society that should aim at the most reasonably possible assurances for those taking part. And those who participate, those who are policyholders, are also the owners of the company. So it's important that you get a review of that understanding. So the companies that have recently decided to take money out of the company have broken the mutual principle, and for those companies it is quite natural that one goes over to pay taxes on their profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e738	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e741	In a reply earlier today on the fishermen’s deduction and net pay scheme, the representative Aasen Agdestein expressed considerable concern about what she called the ‘spire of wages’, which had come as a result of the net pay scheme in a very hot labour market. She was little specific about what she thought about this. The representative Lundtigen often tends to be more precise about how he will solve problems -- if you see it as a problem. Shares this concern for the development of the total net pay scheme, which is soon to be NOK 2 billion, but which does not least help to push up the wage level and steal people from other professions, among other things. likely from agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e748	I think this has little meaning for land-based activities, whatever it is. What is the point of the net pay scheme is that there is a system that means that the employer will have a fairer workforce than you would otherwise have. That is why I fully agree with what the representative Agdestein said about the effect of the net pay scheme. What the government has now done is to adjust to the scheme, so that it is more consistent with what was the original starting point, and that one will thus also be able to gain a greater degree of understanding and upliftment in the population. What else will happen to the net pay scheme is not given. It's something that comes up in future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e755	We have read in the newspapers that the representative of Lundtägen’s party colleague, the head of the Business Committee, has headed a work in the Centre Party’s ‘Workshop for Enterprise Policy’, which has recorded the party’s programme work. We have understood, according to the newspapers, that this group is in favour of cutting property taxes on working capital, doubling of the base deductions, conditional exemption from the inheritance tax for generational change in family holdings and a separate business deduction for self-employed persons. I'm not going to make it a point that the Center Party has had the opportunity to vote for this already today, but I understand that you might be on your way. My question to the representative Lundtigen will be: does he share the views of his party colleague on these tax issues, and does he see it so that there may be a possibility that this might be the central party's policy in the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e762	This is an important work as part of the preparation of the forthcoming major elections programme. What comes out of it is the Central Party national meeting that decides. What is my view and that of Ola Borten Moes is that one has to facilitate sustainable manufacturing activities in the mainland and use the necessary instruments that are included there, including taxes and charges, to help do so. The centre party has a long tradition of long-term regulation and long-term development of equity and business development. The incentives to do so must be balanced against the distribution effects it has. Ola Borten Moe represents the party in a good way on business policy issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e767	The centre party has the tradition of being a business-friendly party, and as mentioned in my post, we have noted with interest what the representative Lundtigen also now referred to, this work in connection with the programme. The Soria Moria Declaration mentions a particular aspect, namely the transition of generations and the inheritance tax in this way. This is probably the last budget that this government is presenting and has complete hands on, so my question is: those who are in these companies and are now waiting for an answer from the Government in this way, can they look confidently in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e774	It'll probably depend on the eyes that see. In the 2008 state budget, the government has said that there is a particular focus on the inheritance tax. It's one of the priority areas that you're going to go into. A theme that arises both in connection with the transfer of business activities and also in connection with the transfer of housing is, of course, that there is a need for regulatory review. It will lead to problems for those who take over and have to pay the market value of it when the value of it when used is much lower than that of it in a free market. It's a problem issue that the Center Party has a high focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e780	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e783	It's one, let's say, quiet time in Odelstinget today, even though we're dealing with what's usually as politicized as tax issues one year and a summer vacation before a election. We woke up many to Political Quarters today, where the country's Finance Minister announced that it would be a tougher line, and not least that tax issues will become central in a tougher line. We get to believe it's an extraordinary situation in the house, where the dynamics and nerves lie in the Lagting. It's so special that we can enjoy what we're in Odelstinget as well. It is probably also the case that the revised national budget that we have for treatment today does not invite to the large waves either. I would like to say that is reasonably undramatic and unpolitical. Then, of course, you can agree that the revised national budget is not an arena for the major tax and tax changes, but I also think that it is important to try to see a price. I have trouble seeing it. The only price to be seen is the government's reversing of itself in the revised national budget through increased fishing deductions and changes in the taxation of small power plants. Both parts conflict with what the government and government parties thought was right only six months ago. It's no shame to turn around, and at least not for the better. That's good. The left believes that tax policy is a key tool in promoting value creation. Unfortunately, the government that sits on the table ignores this, and has spent its first three years in promoting a number of targeted and long-term harmful tax incentives to business. The left will have a tax system that stimulates innovation, work and environmentally friendly behaviour. Therefore, the Left will have a tax shift from red to green tax. In repeated rounds from this pulpit I have been assured that there is also a direction in which the Government and the government parties want to go. But so far, at best, there's a direction in which there's small steps. One of the key prerequisites for creating creative Norway is that the tax on work is not too high. High marginal tax means that it becomes more difficult to compete with the outside world to keep our highly educated and well-qualified workforce. For the Left, taxation is not an end in itself, but sometimes a means of achieving a correct and dynamic policy. It is not the overall level of taxation or whether the level of 2004 is perfect, but the mechanism of the overall tax policy. It's been a proof of that for the last eight years. While the overall tax level is many billions of dollars lower today than it was under the Stoltenberg I government, tax revenue is dramatically higher. This is because the tax policy mechanism is different, primarily through the tax reform that left was a driving force to get through, but also through important Left wins such as removing the investment tax and the complicated and unfair sharing model. It is therefore just as pointless to set a target for the number of billions in total tax credits as it is to determine that a certain level of taxation should be fixed. Tax policy must, of course, be predictable, but also dynamic enough to address the challenges of economic policy. Moreover, it is a fact that tax relief leads to less pressure on interest and exchange rates than the corresponding amount used for increased public expenditure. Two weeks ago, we read that the Centre Party’s ‘Workshop for Enterprise Policy’, led by the big business representative and business committee leader Ola Borten Moe, had sent their input to the party’s programme work. The centre batch group is in favour of cutting taxes on wealth on working capital, doubling of deductions and conditional exemption from the generational inheritance tax on family holdings and a separate deduction from the activity of self-employed persons. To us in the Financial Committee, this does not bear so much witness to innovation, but rather to the fact that the Central Party has taken some sort of ‘best of’ from the opposition’s proposals discussed in the Financial Committee this spring and tried to turn it into central party policy. It's in itself good and affordable. But here's no reason to wait. If the Senterpartie is serious about these proposals, it is only to vote in favour of both inheritance tax depreciation in family-owned enterprises, increased deductions and own nutrient deductions during voting today. Then it'll have a majority. But when it comes to the problem, the central party will probably fail at voting today--again. But we're going to hope for the next period. Today, the Left promotes a number of targeted proposals for changes in tax legislation to stimulate an innovative, environmentally friendly business in the future. That is why we propose, inter alia: own business deductions from self-employed persons, conditional exemption from the inheritance tax on change in ownership of family-owned enterprises combined with higher deductions, and actual improvements in the social rights of self-employed persons without being over-financed by the self-employed persons themselves. We also suggest some other things that are in the setting. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions made by the Left in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e804	The representative Lars Sponheim has drawn up the proposals to which he referred. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e823	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 727]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e836	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e924	The President will first vote on Section 26b of IV. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e940	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e950	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e1004	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e1014	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e1021	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e1171	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e1181	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation. Furthermore, the following were set: B Document No 8:126 [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e1201	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e1851	The President will first vote on the third paragraph of Section 2-8 of Chapter 2. Here the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e1867	The President will then vote on Chapter 1, the rest of Chapter 2, and Chapters 3, 4, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e1877	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e1887	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e1895	In the course of the debate, 20 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Gjermund Hagesetter on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2-7, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 8, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9-13, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 14 and 15, from Svein Fleet on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 16, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 17-19, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of Christian People's Party proposal No. 20, from Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Left. The President assumes that, in this case, voting can be simplified somewhat. It is first voted on the minority proposals according to the size of the fractions and, finally, on the proposal for a decision by the vote. It seems that there is agreement on this, and it is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e1958	The proposals are then put to the vote. 17, 18 and 19, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e2076	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e2107	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 and 15, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e2159	Proposals Nos. 9-13, from the Right and the Left, is taken up to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e2334	Proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, is taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e2372	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-7, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e2515	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e3076	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e3086	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e3138	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e3148	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2008-06-17-lower.ana.ud527e3229	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
